Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18110
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit no. 2275-CA)
J-une 30, 1998
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                                CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                                                     CFAF 511.6 (1996)
CFAF I million                                               US$ 1,955
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                                                       U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                                  3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                                             0.62 mile (mi.)
I square kilometer (kni2)                                    0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
I hectare (ha)                                               2.47 acres (A.)
I metric ton (t)                                             2,205 pounds (lb.)
I kilogram (kg)                                              2,2 pounds (lb,)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                     African Development Bank
BA                      Beneficiary Assessment
CAR                     Central African Republic
CV                      Curric-ulum Vitae
DCA                     Development Credit Agreement
DENF                    Direction de I 'Education Non Formelle
DPF                     Direction de la Promotion de la Femme
ECAM                    Enqudte centrafricaine aupres des menages
FINAVI                  Fichier national des Villages
IDA                     intemational Development Association
IS                      Integrated Survey
NGO                     Non Governmental Organization
PNLP                    Plan National de Lutte contre la Pauvretf
PS                      Priority Survey
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SDA                     Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDAD                    Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development
SDPU                    Social Development Policy Unit
SDR                     Special Drawing Rights
TOR                     Terms of Reference
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
UNFPA                   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                  United Nations Children's Fund
WID                     Women in Development
Vice President: Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Mr. Serge Michailof
Sectoral Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Staff Members: Ms. N. Poupart, Mr. A. Papineau, Ms. N. Sew Kwan Kan



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATIONq COMPLETION REPORT
Central African Republic
Social Dimensions of Adjuistment and Development Project
(CR. 2275-CA)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Dimensions
of Adjustment and Development (SDAD) Project in the Central African Republic (CAR),
for which Credit 2275-CA in the amount of SDR 5.6 million equivalent was approved on
June 20, 1991 and made effective on October 23, 1991. The Credit was closed on
December 31, 1997, twelve months after the original closing date of December 31, 1996.
Suspension of disbursement took place oni April 3, 1997. Final disbursement for eligible
expenditure took place on December 31, 1997, at which point a balance of SDR '791,207
was canceled. Since April, 1997, the entire IDA portfolio has been suspended due to debt
arrears and since February 1998, CAR has been on a non-accrual status.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Nadine Poupart, Human Resources Economist, AFTH4,
and reviewed by Serge Michailof, Country Director, AFCO7, and Arvil Van Adams,
Sector Manager, AFTH4. The Borrower provided comments on this report.
3.    Due to the socio-political unrest in CAR during 1996-1997, a completion mission
did not take place. Preparation of the ICRt was done at HQ and is based on material in the
project file. The Borrower prepared its own assessment of project implementation,
which is attached as Appendix A.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SOCIAL DIMENS][ONS OF ADJUSTMENT
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit no. 2275-CA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NUMBER
Evaluation Summary....i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTAT:[ON ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ...........................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .............................2
C. Major Factors affecting the project ...........................5
D. Project Sustainability ...........................7
E. Bank Performance ...........................7
F. Borrower Performance ...........................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ...........................9
H. Future Operations ..........................                                                                 9
I.   Key Lessons Learned ...........................9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................                                                     12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits ..........................                                                       13
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................                                                          13
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................. 14
Tables 5 and 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation ..................... 14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..................................................... 15
Table 8A: Project Costs (IDA  Credit) ....................................................                     17
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................................................                               17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ....................................................                      18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                       18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement ............................................. 20
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Missions ....................................................                 20
APPENDICES
A. Borrower Assessment of Project Implementation
B. Map



SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2275-CA
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EVALUAT'ION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   IDA support to the structural adjustment program of the Central African Republic
began in 1986, and until 1994, a total of itree structural adjustment credits were financed
(SAC I, Crs. A023-CA and 1732-CA, approved in FY 87; SAC II, Cr. 1916-CA,
approved in FY 88, and SAC III, Cr. 2162-CA, approved in FY 90). The Economic
Management Project (Cr. 1971-CA) was approved in FY 89 in order to support
implementation of the Government's adjustment program. To complement these
activities, the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development Project (SDAD Cr.
2275-CA) was designed to help the Government incorporate the social dimensions of
adjustment and development into its economic and social policies.
Project Objectives
2.    Project objectives, although poor]Ly defined in the SAR, consisted of the
following: (a) supporting the Government's efforts to integrate the social dimensions of
adjustment into its development policies and to develop appropriate social sector
strategies; (b) improving the ability of women to participate fully in economic
development; and (c) training newly recruited teachers (Form 590) (Para 3).
3.    The first, and main, objective was, unclear. Drafting the strategy for integration of
the SDA proved very difficult and the Bank did not efficiently support the Borrower in
designing a mechanism through which accumulated information would be translated into
policy design. The second objective was clear, but did not correspond to project
activities, which more broadly aimed at improving the general status of women. The
third objective was clear and realistic (Para 5).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Overall, achievement of project objectives was negligible. The project did
succeed in building a needed information base through the completion of a Priority
Survey, an Integrated Survey, three beneficiary assessments, and 10 studies. However,



ii                                                          Evaluation Summary
data collection had no impact on the formulation of social policy. Under the Women in
Development component, the project: (i) rehabilitated and equipped the building of the
Ministry of Women's Promotion and Social Action; (ii) provided training to ministry
personnel and women's groups; and (iii) produced a Family Code. However, it did not
succeed in completing an action plan to improve adult education for women. Lastly, the
project was successful in financing the training of 732 primary school teachers under the
Teacher Training component, of which 526 were recruited by the Ministry of Education.
Project sustainability is unlikely, because the current context of political uncertainty and
deep financial crisis is shifting Government's priority from the definition of poverty
reduction and sectoral strategies to the implementation of macroeconomic and political
stabilization measures (paras 6-9, 12-16).
5.    In March 1996, in view of the prolonged difficulties encountered in
implementation and of the deteriorating country context, the project was formnally
restructured towards the definition of a poverty reduction strategy and the implementation
of concrete poverty reduction activities through the establishment of a social fund.
Unfortunately, the 1996 mutinies nullified these efforts to simplify project design and
redirect project emphasis (Para 17).
6.    Factors not subject to Government control which affected implementation were
political instability, civil disturbance, and unsatisfactory Bank performance. Political
instability severely affected project start-up. Civil servant strikes in 1991-93 contributed
to marked delays in implementation. Additionally, the 1996 mutinies nullified project
restructuring efforts. Bank supervision was generally inadequate due to insufficient
resources (Paras 19-21).
7.    Factors subject to Government control included lack of commitment and
coordination, inadequate appointment of key staff, and insufficient provision of
counterpart funds. Lack of political will to reduce poverty severely impeded the use of
collected data for the definition of social policies. The Government appointed staff to
key positions with little capacity to perform. Lastly, lack of payment of counterpart
funds was a continuous challenge until IDA agreed to finance 100% of project costs in
1994 (Paras 22-24).
8.    Overall, Bank's performance was deficient. Project identification, however,
correctly tried to address real issues such as the lack of social arid poverty data, the
absence of coherent macro and sectoral strategies, and the deficit of primary school
teachers. The Bank's support for project preparation, was deficient and it led to poorly-
defined project objectives. Project appraisal was also deficient, mostly because it over-
estimated Borrower implementation capacity. The time required for data collection and
analysis was severely underestimated. Additionally, the Bank decided to finance the
training of only 250 primary school teachers, although the deficit was estimated at 750.
During implementation, supervision missions were understaffed. The time spent to
resolve implementation problems led to less attention being given to the achievement of
the project's development objectives. The 1994 mid-term review should have simplified



Evaluation Summary                                                      iii
the project design and addressed the inadequate capacity of the Project Management
team, which did not occur (paras 27-30).
9.    Borrower performance was also mostly unsatisfactory. Government's
commitment to poverty reduction, which had been emphasized at appraisal, was not
sustained, especially after 1994. Limited human and institutional capacity, notably at the
level of the Project Management team, adversely affected implementation. Lastly, the
lack of provision of counterpart funds by the Borrower impeded timely implementation.
An amount of approximately US$190,000 from the Special Account remains unjustified,
because the Government has used it to replace missing counterpart funds (paras 31-33).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Overall, the project's outcome is highly unsatisfactory. Failure to adapt project
design to the country's limited human and institutional capacity, and CAR's political and
civil instability prevented achievement of project objectives. Lack of political will,
especially after 1994, to implement poverty reduction policies, nullified the project's
major objective. The impact of the Womrren in Development component on women is
negligible. Additionally, about 200 teachers trained under the project remain
unemployed. Still, the project has produced a useful information base, trained 732
teachers, and contributed to raising awareness on poverty issues at the central
Government level (Para 34).
11.   The Borrower did not prepare a plan for the project's future operation. Given the
current country context, the Bank should concentrate its efforts for poverty reduction on
restoring efficiency and transparency in public finance management, macroeconomic
stability, and private sector confidence. Any emergency poverty reduction efforts should
be implemented outside the Government., through a social fund-type of mechanism. If
the Government shows commitment to the economic and fiscal reform agenda, the
dialogue on the definition of a poverty reduction action plan should be resumed (Para 35).
12.   Several lessons can be learned from the project's implementation experience.
First of all, the experience demonstrated that, in an environment of weak institutional
capacity, the definition of clear and limited objectives is key to a successful project.
Also, because capacity-building is a difficult task, the project should have focused on this
objective only, rather than try to address the education and Women in Development
issues simultaneously (Paras 36-37).
13.   Third, data collection and analysis are inadequate if not accompanied by
mechanisms to ensure that policy-makers put the data to good use. Fourth, particularly in
the context of a dysfunctional state, capacity-building at the central level is by definition
a lengthy process. It should be complemented by activities aimed at strengthening civil
society (NGOs, communities, private sector, and media) to create effective demand for
better governance. Fifth, household data collection in small IDA countries should be
achieved through a limited number of studies, given their high cost, and the fact that due



iv                                                               Evaluation Summary
to t:he striking nature of poverty, higher-priority activities are easy to identify. A sixth
lesson learned is that gender issues should not be relegated to ministries of women's
affairs, where they are marginalized. Lastly, adequate Bank supervision is essential for
effective implementation (paras 38-42)



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The project was monitored against the following objectives (Form 590) : (a) to
support the Government's efforts to integrate the social dimensions of adjustment into its
development policies and to define appropriate social sector strategies; (b) to improve the
ability of women to participate fully in economic development; and (c) to train newly
recruited teachers. For the most part, these objectives were not met.
2.    Project objectives were poorly defined in the SAR and in the DCA. According to
the SAR (page 10), they were to: "(a) support the Government's efforts to establish an
institutional system for socio-economic policy formulation and coordination, supported
by an information system for monitoring the social impact of economic policy through
the collection of data on households; (b) facilitate the implementation of existing
National Policy for the Promotion of Women by assisting the Government in organizing a
comprehensive program to improve the ability of women to participate fully in economic
development; and (c) undertake an accelerated teacher training program to correct the
departures of primary school teachers during the structural adjustment program."
3.   In an attempt to clarify these objectives, the DCA states that the project will: "(a)
provide an information base about the nature and location of poverty; (b) provide
appropriate human and institutional capacity to incorporate the social dimensions of
adjustment into macroeconomic and sectoral policies; and (c) define and implement well-
targeted programs and actions to address poor and vulnerable groups".
4.   In general, this project attempted to implement part of the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) initiative launched in 1988 to mitigate the effects of structural
adjustment on poor and vulnerable groups and to help integrate these groups into the
mainstream of sub-Saharan Africa's economies. The SDA initiative was jointly
sponsored by ADB, UNDP and the Bank, and supported by several bilateral and
multilateral donors. Contrary to other SDA projects (such as the one in Cameroon), CAR
project's design only partially reflects the policy agenda of the SDA initiative, which
comprised: (a) improved management of macroeconomic and sectoral policies; (b) social
action programs; (c) strengthened information systems; and (d) institution building and
training. Based on the difficulties it had previously encountered in the implementation of
other SDA projects, the Bank limited the scope of the project. The Social Action
Program was therefore left to ADB financing.
5.    The first objective of the project vwas unclear, and the SAR failed to provide clear
guidance on how it should be implemented. Under this objective, the project was to
produce a "strategy to integrate the social dimensions in the design and the process of
development policy, including a mechanism to ensure the absorption by the line offices



Project Implementation Assessment                                        2
of the Ministry of Planning of the function of the SDAD Secretariat" (SAR, page 12).
Drafting this strategy proved very difficult, as either during appraisal or during
implementation the Bank did not efficiently support the Borrower in designing a
mechanism whereby accumulated information could be translated into policy design. This
was a major weakness of the whole SDA program. The second objective was clear, but it
did not correspond to project activities, which more broadly tried to improve the general
status of women. The third objective was clear and realistic, and led to better results.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Overall, the achievement of project objectives was negligible. They proved
overambitious for the country's low administrative capacity, and for the timeframe of
project implementation. The assessment is based on the following project components:
(a) social policy and planning; (b) women in development; and (c) teacher training.
Social Policy and Planning
7.    This component included three activities: (a) the establishment of a baseline of
household data, and the development of a national information base and monitoring
system on vulnerable groups; (b) a program of socio-economic studies; and (c) the
strengthening of the existing Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU) and establishment
of a transitory SDAD Secretariat (the Project Implementation Unit).
8.    The project partially succeeded in building an information base through the
completion a Priority Survey (1992), an Integrated Survey (1995/96), three beneficiary
assessments (1993, 1994 and 1995), and 10 studies. Given the extremely limited
information base on CAR, this was a useful achievement.
9.    Collection of this information however, was laborious. Fieldwork and data
computing for household surveys faced numerous delays, mostly due to civil disturbance
and to the Borrower's incomprehension of Bank procurement procedures. Furthermore,
data collection was not uniformly accompanied by adequate data analysis. The Priority
Survey (PS) did not lead to a reliable poverty profile. A survey on the impact of the 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc also did not produce reliable data. The Integrated Survey
(IS) data was not analyzed due to the 1996-97 mutinies. While the statistical survey
program reinforced national capacity in the field of survey design and field work, it did
not succeed in improving national capacity in data analysis. The first two Beneficiary
Assessments (BAs) provided useful information, and had some significant elements of
best practice in engendering a process of dialogue and participatory problem solving
which had begun to place issues of miscommunication on the national agenda and to
create demand for better policy. However, after the third BA, the Bank deemed that the
infoimation provided was redundant and the annual BA program was canceled.



3                                           Project Implementation Assessment
10.   The study program was too ambitious given the project's low capacity. The
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) faced repeated difficulties in producing adequate
terms of reference and in following Bank guidelines for selection of consultants.
Moreover, it became clear that most of the planned studies would have little chance of
leading to policy changes. In March 199:5, several of these studies were canceled and the
scope of this activity was further reduced during the 1996 project restructuring.
11.   Collected data had no impact on public policy during the project life. In 1990, the
newly created Social Development Policy Unit (SDPU), under the Ministry of Planning,
was to become responsible for the integration of the social dimensions into policy and
program design. While the project would. reinforce the SDPU's capacity, the SDAD
Secretariat (the PIU) was temporarily created to carry out this task and manage the
project. The SDPU disappeared rapidly. After several attempts by the PIU to produce a
coherent strategy to integrate the social dimensions, and after realizing the complexity of
the task, the Bank accepted an incomplete and low-quality document. The Borrower's
confusion in defining the strategy was compound by the fact that the SAR was never
translated into French. Finally, in March. 1995, the Government and the Bank agreed
that project activities under this component should be oriented towards completion of a
limited number of priority studies, wider dissemination of existing information, and the
definition of a poverty reduction strategy. This new orientation started to bear results.
The information was widely disseminated and, finally in January 1996, the Government
created an Interministerial Technical Committee for the preparation of the Plan National
de Lutte Contre la Pauvrete (PNLCP). As a first step, it produced a UNDP-financed
Diagnosis of Poverty (October 1996), mostly based on data produced by the SDAD
project. According to the Government, it also completed in May 1998, a Poverty
Reduction Nation Plan. Therefore, this component did contribute to raise Government's
awareness on poverty issues.
Women in Development (WID)
12.   This component had three activities: (a) strengthening institutional capacity to
better address the needs of women; (b) preparation of a Family Code; and (c)
preparation of an action plan to enhance women's participation in development,
particularly women's education. Achievement of project objectives under this
component was limited. The WID compcinent was implemented by the Ministry of
Women's Promotion and Social Action and suffered from the three-year civil servant
strike (1991-1993). Activities started only in late 1993. Additionally, the PIU generally
treated this component as an add-on, which marginalized it.
13.   The project rehabilitated and equipped the building of the Ministry of Women's
Promotion and Social Action, especially the offices of the Direction de la Promotion de
la Femme (DPF) and its documentation center. It provided training to 11 DPF staff, and
financed a training program for 120 women's groups that focused on promoting income-
generating activities. A small survey indicates that the training provided to women's
groups resulted in increased income. The project also financed two training workshops of



Project Implementation Assessment                                       4
30 staff from Direction de l 'Education Non Formelle (DENF) to help them define the
action plan for adult education.
14.   Drafting of the Family Code was completed in November 1995, two years after
the original completion date. Part of the delay originated from difficulties encountered in
carrying out the survey of customary practices financed by UNFPA. In October 1997, the
parliament finally adopted the Code.
15.   The project was expected to produce an action plan to improve women's and adult
education, and to implement such a plan. It completed the following preparatory studies:
(a) girl's enrollment in primary schools; (b) factors leading to high dropout rates in
secondary schools; (c) vocational training programs for women; and (d) adult literacy.
Like for the rest of the study program, completion of these studies was delayed due to
PIU's low capacity. Eventually, a draft action plan was produced, but without the
Bank's non-objection to TORs, CVs, and draft contracts. This resulted in a poor-quality
plarn which the Bank rejected. The preparatory studies, however, contributed greatly to
the preparation of the IDA Education IV Project (now canceled due to country situation)
Teacher Training
16.   Project objectives were to a large extent met under this component. The Credit
financed the training of 732 primary school teachers, of which 526 were recruited by the
Education Ministry. This is a tangible contribution to reducing the teacher/student ratio,
which at 1/90, and sometimes 1/160, is the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Due to the
general strike, the Government hired with delay the 232 teachers of the 1990/91 batch
(financed under the PPF), who started teaching only in November 1993. Under the initial
agreement, this should have marked the completion of this component. In 1994, in light
of the severe shortage of teachers, the component was reactivated to train 250 new
teachers per annum for three years. As a result, 248 teachers received training in 1994/95
and 252 in 1995/96. In view of the Government's unclear position on the hiring of these
two cohorts, IDA threatened to cancel the 1996/97 program. As a positive reaction, the
Government integrated 294 primary school teachers, 247 of which had been trained under
the 1994/95 program. The 1996 mutinies, however, had created a situation in which it
was improbable that the Borrower would perform its obligations with respect to this
component. Therefore, IDA did not finance the 1996/97 program. According to the
Goviernment, this program was completed from January to October 1997 under its own
resources.
Project Restructuring
17.  In 1995, in view of its prolonged unsatisfactory performance, the Bank discussed
the possibility of closing the project. This solution was finally rejected. Indeed,
satisfactory implementation of an action plan, the completion of certain activities and



5                                           Project Implementation Assessment
cancellation of others -thus contributing to simplified project design- along with the
nomination in December 1995 of a new project management team, constituted
encouraging signs. In March 1996, the pioject was formally restructured with the
following objectives: (a) definition of a poverty reduction strategy; and (b)
implementation of concrete poverty reduction activities through the establishment of an
independent pilot Social Fund, to be finarnced with the "non-allocated" balance and
through the cancellation of some studies. Preparation of this Social Fund was well
advanced when the first mutinies occurred in April 1996. After that date, the
Government requested that the project instead finance the Emergency Program in the
Education Sector. In November 1996, the DCA was amended to add a new component
which included: (i) provision of teaching services in selected primary and secondary
schools; and (ii) carrying out of repairs to selected school buildings and acquisition of
school furniture. The objective of this latter activity was to finance damage caused by the
initial mutiny and to reimburse about US$300,000 of overcommitment for the Education
III Project, closed in December 1995. The Education Ministry and the PIU prepared this
new component effectively. The project was about to become satisfactory when the
November 1996 mutiny broke out. In April 1997, the Bank suspended all Credit
disbursements in CAR.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
19.   Three important factors fall under this category: Political instability, civil
disturbance, and Bank's inadequate performance. Political instability severely affected
the project start-up in its first two years. In 1991, the country was undergoing aperiod of
protracted socio-political unrest, linked with the political liberalization process. A tense
climate prevailing at that time contributed to the postponement of the start-up of the
surveys. In April/ May 1996 and from November 1996 onwards, mutinies of low-ranking
soldiers destabilized the political climate and nullified restructuring efforts. The Project
Director was in hiding for several months, fearing for his life. Project activities were
interrupted, except for the preparatory work for the IS data analysis which seems to have
continued at a slow pace. From November 1996 until its closing date, lack of security
prevented IDA from supervising project activities.
20.  In addition, the 1991-1993 civil servant strikes contributed to the delay of project
activities by one year and to the postponement of the implementation of the WID
component by three years. They also impeded the timely evaluation of the results of the
1990/91 Teacher Training Program.
21.   Bank performance during implementation was not satisfactory. At least until
1994, supervision was largely understaffed vis-a-vis the relative complexity of the project
and the difficult country context. The mid-termn review mission, conducted a couple of



Project Implementation Assessment                                        6
weeks after the CFAF devaluation in 1994, was inadequate. Following Bank
Management's request to concentrate on the preparation of a post-devaluation social
program, the Task Manager was simultaneously preparing a Social Development Project
(that the Bank later canceled) and most of the review was handled by a consultant who
had no prior country knowledge. This review therefore did not lead to any major
decisions, although it would have been an opportunity to streamline project design, and to
insist on further strengthening or replacing of the project management team which did not
perform its role satisfactorily.
Facitors Generally Subject to Government Control
22.   Lack of Government commitment and coordination, inadequate appointment of
key staff, and insufficient provision of counterpart funds were four factors subject to
government control that affected project implementation. Government commitment
appeared firm during project preparation, but was not maintained. The hiring of trained
teachers was always lagging, revealing the Government's low priority given to improving
the quality of primary education. During most of the project's life, coordination between
the E'IU and the, Ministry of Women's Promotion and Social Action was poor and
contributed to the unsatisfactory performance of this component.
23.   Appointment of key staff by the Government was inappropriate. The first project
management team faced repeated difficulties in understanding and following Bank
procedures, even after receiving extensive training on procurement and disbursement.
This delayed project activities by one year. Procurement of equipment was consistently
months and, in some cases, years behind schedule, as was consultant contracting. Project
performance steadily improved with the stronger commitment of the new management
team beginning in January 1996, the assistance provided by the procurement specialist of
the Education III Project, and later the recruitment of the same specialist at the Resident
Mission. The project also faced arbitrary changes in personnel. For example, the
Government replaced the competent Director of the Teacher Training Program while on
training abroad under project funds. This change weakened the performance of the
component.
24.   Lack of provision of counterpart funds was a persistent problem until the
afterrnath of the January 1994 CFAF devaluation, at which time the Bank agreed to
finance 100% of project costs until June 1995 (along with postponing the project closing
date by one year). The November 1996 amendment of the DCA extended 100% IDA
financing until the closing date. A total of about US$190,000 from the special account
remains unjustified because, according to the Government, it financed expenditures
which should have been financed by counterpart funds. Finally, in April 1997 IDA
suspended Credit disbursement for the whole portfolio due to debt arrears. As a result of
this suspension and the lack of Government financial resources, there was no audits for
the 1996 and 1997 project accounts.



7                                           Project Implementation Assessment
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The project is unlikely to be sustained. In the current context of deep financial
crisis and political uncertainty, the Government is focusing on the restoration of
macroeconomic, financial and political stability. It is preparing an adjustment program
with the IMF and possibly with the Bank. The Government is also eager to mobilize
grants for a post-conflict reconstruction program. In the near future, therefore, the context
is unlikely to be conducive to the definition of poverty reduction and sectoral strategies,
although the Government indicates that in May 1998, it completed a Poverty Reduction
National Plan, with UNDP's assistance. Regarding the survey component, the Bank has
mobilized funds and expertise to secure the IS household data (which otherwise could
have been lost), to complete its analysis, and to produce a full poverty profile.
Computers and cars bought under the survey component, as well as the human capacity
built in the field of household surveys, could be useful for the population census
originally planned for 1998, but now postponed. The study program has reinforced the
experience of national consultants and should help develop the local consulting
profession.
26.   Given the current budgetary crisis, improvements in working conditions and
trained staff at the Ministry of Women's Affairs will have only a limited impact on the
conditions of women in CAR. The Family Code has not yet been applied, as the
Government could not distribute it due to lack of funds. Regarding the third component,
526 out of the 732 primary school teachers trained by the project are teaching and the
Government indicates that it financed out of its own resources the 1996/97 program.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Overall, the Bank's performance was deficient. However, Project identification
was relatively satisfactory. The project tried to address real issues such as the lack of
social and poverty data, the absence of coherent macro and sectoral strategies, and the
replacement of about 750 teachers who left the civil service as part of the Voluntary
Assisted Departure program. It also tried to support to the Government's efforts to
improve the welfare of women.
28.   Bank's support for preparation was deficient. Project objectives were poorly
defined. At the time, the Bank was under a lot of pressure from NGOs, UNICEF and the
Economic Community for Africa to show commitment to social issues. Even though the
Bank limited the scope of the SDA agenda somewhat in this project, it still did not   I
sufficiently adapt this agenda to CAR realities. This led to a relatively complex project
with as many as six implementing agencies (SDAD Secretariat, SDPU, Statistic Unit
under the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Women's Promotion, and Centre national de
formation continue and DENF under the Education Ministry). Moreover, project
preparation did not sufficiently involve key stakeholders.



Project Implementation Assessment                                        8
29.   Project appraisal was also deficient. The capacity of the Borrower's
implementing agencies was overestimated. This was recognized as a risk but the
proposed remedies were ineffective. As in other SDA projects, the time for carrying out
household surveys and analyzing data was largely underestimated. The open study
program created an incentive to carry out low-priority studies. The important issue of
how to build policymakers' capacity to design sound strategies, based on reliable data,
was not sufficiently addressed. Finally, the need for trained teachers was underestimated.
Dur:ing appraisal, the Bank had correctly estimated this need at about 750. An education
mission, however, returned to Washington prior to negotiations indicating that the
Government had already hired teachers to fulfill the deficit and that only the 250 teachers
already being trained under the PPF should be financed under the project. The Central
African delegation contested the mission's findings but was not able to provide proofs,
which led the Bank to maintain its position.
30.   Supervision was not satisfactory. The multisectoral nature of the project required
multisectoral expertise. Understaffing of supervision, instead, led the Bank to try to
resolve the numerous implementation problems as they emerged, rather than to look at
the project's achievement of development objectives. During the 1994 mid-term review,
the Bank should have restructured the project and insisted on the strengthening or
replacement of the project management team.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   Borrower performance was mostly deficient. Prior to 1991, the Government had
demonstrated commitment through the formulation of a far-reaching set of objectives in
the areas of human development, employment, and support to underprivileged groups.
This commitment to poverty reduction was not maintained during project
implementation, especially after 1994. Until 1997, the collected information remained
largely unused by the Government, either because of lack of interest or due to a lack of
resources to implement follow-up actions.
32.   Limited human and institutional capacity adversely affected implementation.
Until its replacement in late 1995, the Project management team was inefficient. For
exanmple, the establishment of a computerized management and accounting system, called
for by the Bank since 1993, never materialized. In June 1995, the Government rightly
terminated the PIU's management team's contracts but delayed the hiring of a new team,
which left these crucial positions vacant for 6 months.
33.   Lastly, the Government did not provide sufficient counterpart funds, and instead
used CFAF 113,917,484 from the Special Account, which still remain to be reimbursed.



9                                           Project Implementation Assessment
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The project's outcome is genetrally highly unsatisfactory. The inadequacy of the
project design, the limited human and institutional capacity, and the lack of political will
prevented achievement of project objectives. An information base was accumulated, but
has not been used to formulate policies. The impact of the WID component on women is
negligible. Only the teacher training component was relatively successful, but to our
knowledge, about 200 trained teachers are still unemployed. Still, the project has
contributed to creating awareness on poverty issues. It made it possible for the Bank to
produce a Poverty Note, and provided. the basis for a full-fledged poverty profile. The
BA, which has revealed the increasing dynamism of the poor, became a useful tool for
the introduction of a dialogue between the Government and the population.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   The Borrower has not prepared a plan for the project's future operation. Given
the current country context, the Bank should concentrate its efforts for poverty reduction
on restoring efficiency and transparency in public finance management, macroeconomic
stability, and confidence of the private sector. Any emergency poverty reduction
activities should be implemented outside the Government, through a social fund-type of
mechanism. Project design should be kept simple and have clear objectives. Provided
that the Government shows commitment on the economic and fiscal reform agenda, the
dialogue on the definition of a poverty reduction action plan, with the cooperation of
other donors, should be resumed. This plan should include recommendations to set up a
social and economic database, buildirLg on the Project efforts in this field. In the
education sector, the preparation of the Emergency Program has demonstrated the
Government's willingness to introduce flexibility in the employment status of primary
and secondary school teachers, by providing yearly contracts at lower rates. Reactivating
this discussion should be a sectoral priority. According to the Government, more than
120 primary schools were closed in 1997 due to lack of teachers.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   Definition of clear and limited objectives is key to the success of a project,
especially in an environment of weak institutional capacity.
37.   Because capacity building is a difficult task, the project should have focused on
this objective only, rather than try to address education and WID issues simultaneously.
38.   Collection and analysis of data on their own are insufficient unless accompanied
by mechanisms to ensure that policy makers put them to good use. Such a difficult task
is most likely to be achieved through a participatory process, whereby communication



Project Implementation Assessment                                           10
between the Government and the population is made explicit, issues are put on the
national agenda, and demand for better policy is fostered and articulated.
39.   In the context of a dysfunctional state, capacity building at the central level is by
definition a long process; it should be complemented by activities aimed at strengthening
civil society (NGOs, communities, private sector, and the media) to create effective
demand for better governance. This is particularly true for the effective implementation
of poverty reduction activities. Unfortunately, the CAR portfolio during the 1991-97
period was largely oriented towards building capacity within the Government, without
much attention paid to the civil society. Only the Livestock Project was directly aimed at
improving the welfare of herders, an important endeavor, but this affected a socio-
economic group that is not among the poor.
40.   In small IDA countries, the Bank should continue to finance household data
collection, despite its relative high cost, since it contributes to creating Government
awareness on poverty issues. However a limited number of surveys is often sufficient to
determine high priority activities.
41.   Gender issues should not be relegated to ministries of women's affairs where they
are marginalized.
42.   Adequate resources for Bank project supervision are critical. Supervision must be
substantive, which in multisectoral projects requires multisectoral expertise, and entail
joint problem solving. Furthermore, in low capacity environments, it is not sufficient to
simply verify whether agreements and procedures are being followed. Adequate
resources must be provided at the local level (i.e. Resident Mission) to backstop on
questions of procedures. Indeed, the project performance improved when it received
support on disbursement and procurement from the Education project, then from the
Resident Mission.



PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Projiect
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Missions



12                                                                         Statistical Annex
PART [I -- STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                                             V1
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                                   V
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                               V
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management                                         _
Private Sector Development                                                                     V
Other (specify): Teacher Training 
B. Project Sustainability                       Likely                Unlikely            Uncertain
Social Dimensions of Adjustment and                                      d V
Development                                                                         l
C. Bank Performance                       Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                                                     V
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance                   Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                                         _
Implementation                                                                                V
Covenant Compliance
Operation                                                                                     V
E. Assessment of Outcome                    Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
Social Dimensions of Adjustment and                                                            V
Development                                            _



Statistical Annex                                                               13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title                  Purpose              Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. SAC II, Cr. 1916-CA      Structural Adjustment           FY88         Closed
3. ED III, Cr. 1863-CA      Education III: Education        FY88         Closed
Rehabilitation and
.______________________ _   Development
2. PAGE, Cr. 1971-CA        Economic Management             FY89         Closed
4. SAC III, Cr. 2162-CA     Structural Adjustment           FY90         Closed
Following Operations
None
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Projects Cycle         Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification (Executive         November 1989              November 1989
Project Summary)
Preparation                        March 1990                  March 1990
Appraisal                           July 1990                   July 1990
Post Appraisal                    February 1991                   none
Negotiations                        May 1991                    May 1991
Board Presentation                  June 1991                 June 20, 1991
Signing                             July 1991                  July 12, 1991
Effectiveness                     September 1991             October 23, 1991
Midterm Review                     October 1993         January 19-February 9, 1994
Project Completion                 June 30, 1996                  none
Credit Closing                  December 31, 1996           December 31, 1997



14                                                                Statistical Annex
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(SDR millions)
Fiscal        Appraisal Estimates                  Actual Disbursements
Year
Cumulative
Annual        Cumulative        Annual       Cumulative    Actuals as
Disbursements  Disbursements  Disbursements  Disbursements        % of
Cumulative
________________                                Estimates
FY92             0.775           0.775          0.487           0.487       62.84%
FY93             1.206           1.981          1.157           1.644       77.54%
FY94             1.034           3.015          0.598           2.242       73.67%
FY95             0.948           3.963           1.253          3.495       84.53%
FY96             0.862           4.825          0.739           4.234       87.32%
FY97             0.775             5.6          0.481           4.715       83.82%
FY98                                                            4.810       85.89%
Date of Final Disbursement: December 31, 1997
TABLES 5 AND 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Neither the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), nor the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President, nor the Development Credit Agreement included any key indicators for project
implementation and operation. Restructuring efforts, including the definition of key indicators,
were nullified by the 1996 mutinies.



Statistical Annex                                                                                 15
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                          P'urpose as defined at           Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Study of poverty based on 1988 census.  To determine the poverty threshold  Canceled.
and characterize underprivileged
groups.
2. Study of community infrastructure based on                                Canceled.
available FINAVI data.
3. Initial poverty profile of the population in    To determine the poverty threshold  Completed in  Data used for the
the second year, based on the results of the  and characterize underprivileged  1994.          Diagnosis ofpoverty.
Priority Survey.                          groups.                                              However, PS data
were found
unreliable.
4. An in-depth poverty profile of the     To achieve a baseline identification of  Partially    Social data used for
population in the third year based on the results  poverty and characterize social and  completed in  the WB Poverty Note.
of the Integrated Survey.                  poverty indicators.               1997.             Expenditure data
being analyzed by
IDA.
5. Analysis of household survey data.     To assess the effects of           Not completed.
macroeconomic development policies
on earnings and employment, on
health and willingness to pay for
medical care, education, on food
security and nutrition, and on women.
6. Feasibility study for training centers for  To assess the needs and create  Canceled.
unemployed rural youth.                    employ ment opportunities for rural
youth.
7. Evaluation of the government's program of   To evaluate the government's  Canceled.
voluntary departures.                      program for voluntary departures
from the civil service (part of the
Structural Adjustment Program).
8. Feasibility study for the establishment of a    To identify ways of financing micro-   Completed in  Led the Government,
Social Fund                               level community projects targeted at   1993.         with IDA's
poor and vulnerable segments of the                 assistance, to prepare
population through a Social Fund.                   Social Fund. Social
Fund later dropped.
9. Survey on prices and household behavior,    Assess the impact of the devaluation    Completed in    Nil.
following the CFAF devaluation             on households                      1995.
10. Study on girls' enrollment in          To increase girls' school enrollment   Completed in  Input for the
primary school.                           rates, especially at the primary level.   1993.      preparation of IDA
Educ. IV project, later
dropped in 1997.
I1. Study on the factors leading to high dropout  To decrease female dropout rates  Completed in  Input for the
rates in secondary school                                                     1994.            preparation of IDA
Educ. IV project, later
dropped in 1997.
12. Study on vocational training programs for   To improve the relevance of female    Completed in  Input for the
women                                      vocational education with respect to    1994.       preparation of IDA
the demands of the labor market                     Educ. IV project, later
dropped in 1997.



16                                                                              Statistical Annex
Study                         Purpose as defined at             Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
13. Study on adult literacy.              To strengthen adult literacy programs   Completed in  Input for the
for women                         1993.             preparation of IDA
Educ. IV project, later
________________  dropped in  1997.
14. Action Plan to improve women's and girls'  Improve the education level of women  Not completed. A
education.                                                                  version was
completed in
1995, without
IDA non-
objection and
rejected by IDA.
15. Inventory of existing socio-economic  Proposed by the Interministerial  Completed.             Unknown.
studies.                                  Committee at time of mid-term
review.
16. Statistical Yearbook for Women        A summary of information and data    Completed in        Unknown.
1994-95                                   on women's conditions; requested by   1996.
DPF.
17. Study on traditional savings schemes.  To increase women's income       Completed in           Unknown
1995.



Statistical Annex                                                                     17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (IDA CREDIT)
(in thousands of SDR)
Appiraisal         Revised (02/97)             Actual**
Estimate*
Category
1. Consultant services, studies,              1,650                    1,825                   1,387
training, and seminars
2. Civil works                                  100                       80                      69
3. Vehicles and equipment                      475                     1,427                     946
4. Incremental recurrent costs,
(a) for Social Policy and Planning             800                    1,651                    1,770
(b) for the rest of the project              1,190                       55                       55
5. PPF refinancing                             610                      270                      582
6. Unallocated                                 775                      292                      0.00
TOTAL                                         5,600                    5,600                    4,809
Undisbursed balance***                                                                           791
Source: Credit Agreement
* *    Figures represent actual IDA disbursements. Source: LOAAF
T** *    Undisbursed balance of SDR 791,000 was canceled on December 1997
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in thousands of SDR)
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Local Costs    Foreigni       Total        Local       Foreign         Total
Source                               Costs                     Costs         Costs
IDA                       2,679         2,921        5,600     N.A.          N.A.             4,809
Government                532.5          :2.2          535      N.A.          N.A.          N.A.
TOTAL                     3,213         2,922         6,135     N.A.          N.A.          N.A.
Incremental recurrent costs include maintenance of equipment and vehicles, fuel, publications, and salaries of contracted
employees.



18                                                                        Statistical Annex
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR) and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation
purposes. Furthermore, no parameters were given at appraisal with regard to cost effectiveness.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised          Description of       Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment     Covenant
Date        Date
Cr. 2275 CA   Art. II    PIA         C       12/31/96    12/31/97   Closing date        Extended by one
2.03                                                                      year.
Cr. 2275 CA  Art. III                C       2/31/92                Submission to IDA   Submitted on time.
3.03                                                   of a strategy paper   However document
for the integration   called into question
of the social      by Government,
dimensions of      who developed a
adjustment and     new strategy in
development into    1996. The Bank
the work program    approved it.
of the Planning
Ministry.
Cr. 2275 CA   Art. III              NC       12/3193      9/31/97    Implementation of    Not completed
3.03                                                   the above strategy
Cr. 2275 CA   Art. III              CD       9/30/93     12/31/94   Complete drafting   Family Code
3.04                                                   of a Family Code    completed in
and soon thereafter  November 1995.
submit it to IDA   Code submitted to
for review and     Parliament in
comments prior to   October 1997.
its enactment.
Cr. 2275 CA    3.07       10        CD       6/30/92                Carry out studies    Completed behind
on girls'          schedule.
enrollment in
primary schools;
factors leading to
high dropout rates
in secondary
schools; vocational
training programs
for women; and
adult literacy, in
accordance with
terms of reference
acceptable to IDA.



Statistical Annex                                                                          19
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised         Description of       Comments
Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment     Covenant
Date        Date
Cr. 2275 CA    3.08        12       NC       12/31/92     12/31/96   Submit to IDA an    A draft Action plan
action plan for    to improve girls'
improving          education was
women's and adult  completed without
education.         IDA non-objection
and was rejected
l_____                _______                                     by  IDA.
Cr. 2275 CA    3.12        9        CD        0/31/93                Carry out with IDA   Review conducted
a mid-term review   in January-
to assess the      February 1994
progress achieved   (due to elections
in the execution of  and other factors).
l___________            the  Project.
Cr. 2275 CA    3.13        9         CD      10/31/92                Carry out an       First assessment
assessment of the    was partial (due to
results achieved in  civil servant
the execution of   strikes). New
the Accelerated    assessment was
Teachers' Training   due on 8/31/1994
Program and        and completed in
__________              submit it to IDA.    1995.
Cr. 2275 CA    4.01        1         CD        4/30                  Have records and    Audit for 1995 was
CP      annually                accounts, including  2 months late.
those for the      Audits for 1996
Special Account    and 1997 not
and statements of    completed.
expenditure, for
each fiscal year
audited and furnish
to IDA a certified
copy of the audit
=___________  __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __   _report.
KEY
Covenant type                                                         Status
1.      Accounts/audit                                                C     complied with
2.      Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   CD   complied with after delay
3.      Flow and utilization of projectfunds                          CP   complied with partially
4.      Counterpart funding                                           NC   not complied with
5.      Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6.      Environmental covenants
7.      Involuntary resettlement
8.      Indigenous people
9.      Monitoring, review, and reporting
10.     Project implementation not covered by category 1-9
II.     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.     Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13.     Other



20                                                                                       Statistical Annex
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT
Statement number and title                    Description and comment on lack of compliance
N.A.                                                    N.A.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF MISSIONS
Supervision    Month/    No. of    Days in    Specialized               Performance  Rating             Types of
Year       Pers.       Field      Staff Skills      implementation       dev.        Problems
objectives
Through           N.A.       N.A.           N.A.          N.A.
Appraisal
Appraisal         07/90          5          N.A.      CON,EC,OA
through Board
Supervision       10/91          4            6       HRS, ST, WID       2                       1      Procurement,
coordination,
strikes.
07/92          3           6        HRS, RM, ST       3                       3      Project
management,
procurement.
10/92*        2           14                         3                       2       Project
management,
procurement.
03/93          1           6        HRS               2                       2      Policy design,
budget
management,
counterpart
funds.
10/93         2            9                          2                      2      Communication
between
components.
01-           3           22       HRS, HRE,          2                       2      Legal
02/94                              RM                                                covenants,
integration
strategy,
counterpart
_________                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~funds.
08/94          1                   HRS                S                       S      Communication
between
subcomponents,
counterpart
funds.
03/95          2          16        HRE, ST           U                      U       Project
management,
procurement,
data analysis.
These two missions refer to trips undertaken by the secretary of the project and his assistant to Washington DC.



Statistical Annex                                                                                                 21
Supervision       Month/    No. of         Days in    Specialized           Performance  Rating               Types of
Year        Pers.        Field      Staff Skills       implementation -dev.               Problems
._______________  _________  _________            objectives
11/95          4            15       HRE, ST, ST,        U                        u      Recruitment of
PRS                                                teachers,
_____________________   ___________   ___________   ________________              ~~ ~~studies.
03/96          3            30        HRE, ST, SFS       U                        U       Counterpart
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ fufu n ds
10/96          2           29        HRE, ST             U                        U      Activities
paralyzed due to
mutinies.
Completion         none
Key: Specialized Staff                                                       Key: Performance Ratings
CON      Consultant                                                          I         No problems
EC       Economist                                                           2         Moderate problems
OA       Operations Assistant                                                3         Major problems; solution
in view
HRS      Human Resource Specialist                                           4         Major problems; no
solution in view
HRE      Human Resource Economist                                            S         Satisfactory
ST       Statistician                                                        U         Unsatisfactory
WID      Women in Development Specialist
RM       Resident Mission
PRS      Procurement Specialist
SFS      Social Fund Specialist



Appendix A
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
Uriite - Dignite - Travail
MINISTERE DE LA REFORME ECONOMIQUE
DU PLAN ET DE LA COOPERATION INTERNATIONALE
PROJET [)IMENSIONS SOCIALES- DE
L'AJUSTEMIENTET DU DEVELOPPEMENT
CREDIT IDA No 2275 - CA
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
Prepare par: Jeannot NGBANZA
Mars 1998



REPUBL[QUE CENTRAFRICATNE
Unite - Dignite - Travail
Ministere de la Reforme Economique
du Plan et de la Coop6ration Internationale
Projet Dimensions Sociales de l'Ajustement et du Developpement (DSAD)
Credit No 2275 - CA
Rapport d'Achevement
DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
Les deux premiers Programmes d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) de 1986 et 1988 que le
Gouvernement avait signes, avaient pour objectifs principaux la stabilisation et l'assainissement de la
base de l'economie afin de r6tablir la croissance. En signant le troisieme programme en 1990, le
Gouvernement a opte pour un programrne plus complet incluant les Dimensions Sociales en vue
d'attenuer les couits sociaux de l'ajustement structurel.
Le Gouvernement a voulu ainsi que son effort d'ajustement economique et financier soit
desormais resolument tourne vers la croissance et l'allegement de la pauvrete (attenuation des effets
negatifs de l'ajustement sur le plan social et participation des groupes defavorises au processus de
developpement). Plus concretement. il comptait se doter de donnees sociales et economiques au
niveau des menages et des communautes en vue de determiner des groupes cibles et les decrire en
termes de revenu et de consommation, de satisfaction de leurs besoins essentiels sur le plan du
logement, de l'education, de la sante et des autres services sociaux.
Le Projet Dimensions Sociales de l'Ajustement et du Developpement (DSAD) avait pour
objectifs:
* de foumir une base d'information sur la nature et ia localisation de la pauvrete;
* de fournir des capacites humaines et institutionneiles appropriees qui permettront d'incorporer les
Dimensions Sociales dans les politiques macro-economiques et sectorielles de l'Etat;
* de definir et de mettre en place des programmes et activites biens cibles visant les groupes
pauvres et vulnerables de la population.
La mise en oeuvre de ce Projet a ete confiee au Ministere de la Reforme Economique, du
Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale qui, conformement a la section 3.05 de l'article III de
I'Accord de Credit, a mis en place un Comite Interministeriel de suivi des activites du Projet et, a la
section 3.06 a mis en place un Secretariat du Projet dirige a plein temps par un Directeur de Projet.
Le Secretariat prepare le programme de travail de chaque composante du Projet ainsi que les
budgets y afferents et les soumet pour approbation A l'Association au plus tard le 31 Octobre de
chaque annee. Il e1abore et suit les indicateurs de performance de chaque composante.
I



Les composantes du Projet etaient logees dans quatre Ministeres  Promotion de la Famille,
Affaires Sociales et Solidarite Nationale, Education Nationale, Agriculture et Elevage et Reforme
Economique Plan et Cooperation Internationale (voir annexe).
EXECUTION DU PROJET
L'evaluation de l'execution du Projet DSAD doit tenir compte du contexte socio-politique et
economique que le pays a traverse depuis l'approbation de son Accord de Credit en date du 12
Juillet 1991.
1.    Contexte Socio-politique
La Republique Centrafricaine a engage un processus de democratisation au debut de 1990.
Ce processus a et long et s'est concretise en 1993 par les elections pluralistes legislatives et
presidentielles. Cependant, ce long processus a eu des consequences negatives sur la situation sociale
et economique du pays: manifestations sociales, arrets frequents du travail et paralysie de
I 'admninistration.
Recemment, en Avril, Mai et Novembre 1996, trois mutineries successives d'une partie de
F'armee ont provoque un ralentissement dans presque tous les secteurs de la vie nationale.
Dans ce contexte, le Gouvernement s'est retrouve tres souvent face a des difficultes
.conomiques et financieres ne lui permettant pas de disposer des liquidites financieres dues au titres
de la contrepartie nationale de projets et d'honorer ses engagements vis-a-vis de ses partenaires au
developpement. Le Projet DSAD a aussi connu deux suspensions de decaissement : la premiere de
Fevrier a Mars 1994 et la deuxieme depuis le 03 Avril 1997 jusqu'a la date de cl6ture du Projet au
31 Decembre 1997.
Cette deuxieme decision de suspension des decaissements n'a pas permis de conclure bon nombre
d'actions qui etaient dans une phase avancee de leur execution.
2.-   La realisation du Projet DSAD
Les resultats de l'execution du Projet sont presentes en terme d'objectifs composante par
composante et en terme de performances de la maniere qui suit:
PARTIE A: POLITIQUE SOCIALE ET PLANIFICATION
1.    Composante EnQu8tes Centrafricaines auDres des MWnages (ECAM)
Objectif
Cette composante avait pour objectif de developper un systeme national d'information
reposant sur des enquetes aupres des menages et des etudes qui fourniront au Gouvernement les
donnees sociales de base, lui permettant d'identifier les groupes vulnnrables et de comprendre les
causes de la pauvrete, et de suivre l'evolution du niveau de vie et la reaction des menages aux
mesures prises dans le cadre du processus d'ajustement structurel. Ceci permettra au Gouvernement
2



de traduire ces informations en termes de politiques adaptees et d'actions qui touchent les segments
vulnerables de la population.
Resultats atteints
Les trois principales enquetes du programme DSA de la Banque Mondiale ( Enquete
Prioritaire. Enquete Int6grale avec module Budget et Consommation des Menages, Enquete
Communautaire) prevues pour mesurer le bien-etre des m6nages et des communautes ont ete menees
par cette composante.
L'Enquete Prioritaire et I'Enqu&e Communautaire ont et realisees simultanement. Ces deux
enquetes ont donne l'occasion (i) de dispDser d'indicateurs pertinents sur les conditions de vie des
menages, (ii) d'identifier les groupes pauvres et vuln6rables de la population et (iii) de cerner les
disparites qui existent entre hommes et femmes, les groupes de menages et les differentes regions du
pays.
Ces indicateurs ont servi de base pour la realisation de plusieurs etudes socio-economiques,
de tracer un premier profil de la pauvrete du pays et de preparer l'enquete integrale. Les resultats de
l'Enquete Prioritaire et de l'enquete Communautaire ont ete jues globalement satisfaisants. Des
capacites humaines ont ete developpees clans le domaine de la conception et de l'analyse des
enquetes menages. Par contre, la premiere evaluation du profil de la pauvrete n'a pas ete entierement
approuvee par l'IDA et doit etre refaite sur la base des donnees de l'Enquete Integrale.
L'Enquete Integrale a ete menee entre 1995 et 1996. La collecte des donnees est terminee sur
le terrain. Les donnees sont encore en cours d'exploitation au moment oI est intervenue la
suspension des decaissements en Avril 1997. Par suite de cela, la date butoir de publication des
donnees de cette enquete fixee en Septenibre 1997 n'a pas ete respectee.
En depit de cette suspension des decaissements, une bonne partie des donnees de l'enqu&e
integrale sont deja analysees mais ne soni: pas publiees. Ces donnees sont les seules c l'heure actuelle
pour evaluer de mani&re complete le profil de la pauvrete et informer le Gouvernement sur les
politiques de recouvrement des couits en sante et education.
Ce volet avait prevu des travaux de renovation a la Division des Statistiques et la
construction de deux antennes de la Statistique dans les villes de Bangassou et Bouar. Cette activite
n'a pas ete realisee.
2.    Composante Cellule du Develo mement Social (CDS)
Objectif
La CDS avait pour but de renforcer la capacite de la Cellule de planification du
Developpement Social du Ministere du Plan en realisant des etudes axees sur la pauvrete, les
consequences des differents PAS et une etude de faisabilite pour la creation d'un Fonds Social
destine au financement de micro-projets et (ii) assurer la formation des cadres oeuvrant dans les
differentes composantes du Projet.
R&sultats atteints
Sur le plan des etudes, le Projet a finance environ quinze etudes dans des domaines diverses.
Les principaux commanditaires ont ete le Ministere de I'Education Nationale, la DGPF et le
Ministere du Plan. (voir recapitulatif en annexe).Les resultats des etudes ont ete dissemines.
3



Profil de la pauvrete: La CDS a finance la realisation d'un premier profil de la pauvrete a ete trace
en 1994 avec les donnees de l'Enquete prioritaire. L'identification des groupes pauvres ainsi que leur
contribution a la pauvrete a et bien presentee. Par contre, le profil a ete juge incomplet par la
banque du fait que beaucoup de disparites existaient entre milieu urbain et milieu rural par manque
d'information sur I'autoconsommation des menages. Un nouveau profil doit etre trace avec les
donnees de I'EIBC qui sont plus completes.
Sur le plan formation, le Projet a finance la formation de plus de cinquante (50) personnes
dont environ dix beneficiaires n'exercent plus en rapport direct avec la formation recue. (voir tableau
recapitulatif en annexe).
3.    Composante Evaluation des Beneficiaires (EB)
Objectifs
Ce volet avait pour but de mettre en oeuvre l'evaluation participative de la pauvrete en RCA.
L'Evaluation des Beneficiaires doit recueillir des informations sur les attitudes et les comportements
des beneficiaires des Projets de developpement face aux projets qu'on leur apporte afin de connaitre
leurs propres attentes et fournir aux entites competentes des donnees sur le contexte dans lequel
celles-ci interviennent.
Resultats atteints
Cette composante a realise trois (3) enquetes qui ont porte sur les themes suivants
Agriculture, Education, Sante et Hygiene du milieu, Eau/Assainissement, developpement
communautaire. Les donnees de ces enquetes ont ete disseminees et restituees aux communautes qui
ont ete visitees par ces op6rations. Les resultats des enqu&es de I'EB ont suscite un interet de la part
des differents partenaires qui interviennent dans les secteurs qui ont et analyses, car elles ont permis
d'identifier certains problemes de base pour la mise en oeuvre de certains projets de developpement
et ont aussi permis d'isoler le comportement de certains groupes cibles face aux projets. Si ce volet
avait poursuivi ces activites, d'autres themes comme celui de l'environnement auraient pu etre
abordes.
4.    Integration des Dimensions Sociales dans le programmes macro-&conomiQues
et sectoriels
Objectifs
Le Projet devait proposer une strategie d'integration des DSAD au sein du Ministere Charge
de la Planification et dans les differents departements sectoriels. Le but est de perenniser les activites
du projet au sein des differents departements et de preparer la releve sur financement du budget
national.
Resultats atteints
Le Projet de document de strategie a et redige mais n'a pas et approuve ni par la Banque ni
par le Gouvernement parce que juge trop onereux pour sa mise en application.
4



5.    Enquete de suivi du comDortement des minaees anres la devaluation
Objectif
L'objet de cette composante etait de produire une premiere estimation de l'impacte de la
devaluation du FCFA intervenue en Janvier 1994.
Resultats atteints
La mise en oeuvre tardive des activites n'a pas permis d'obtenir les resultats au moment
voulu. L'analyse des r6sultats de la premiere enquete n'a pas fofurni les resultats attendus et cette
composante a ete arret&e en Mai 1995.
PARTIE B: LES FEMMES ET DEVELOI'PEMENT
L'objectif de la Composante "Femme eit Developpement" etait de renforcer les moyens de la
Direction Generale de la Promotion Feminine (DGPF) en vue de promouvoir les activites des
organisations feminines sur 1'ensemble du territoire et de coordonner les actions menees par les
differents partenaires en vue de l'integration de la femme au developpement. La mise en oeuvre
effective des activites de cette composante a connu des retards des le demarrage dus a la vacance
prolongee du poste d'Expert National suite au deces de la premiere. Les activites de la DGPF etaient
orientees vers les volets suivants:
1.    Le renforcement de la catacit6 de la DGPF A collecter, stocker et diffuser les donnees
sur la femme
Cette activite a ete executee dans son ensemble. La DGPF dispose d6sormais d'un centre de
documentation avec un equipement informatique, des ouvrages specifiques et de moyens roulants.
Les etudes sur la scolarisation des filles et lalphabetisation des adultes, l'organisation de l'epargne
traditionnelle, les deperditions scolaires et l'adequation formation-emploi des femmes ont ete
realisees. L'annuaire statistique de la femme a ete elabore mais n'a pas ete publie.
2.    Le renforcement de la capacit6 de la DGPF a encadrer et appuyer les groupements
feminins
Plusieurs formations des cadres de la DGPF et des leaders de groupements feminins ont ete
faites tant au niveau du pays qu'a 1Petranger. Neuf (9) prefectures sur quinze (15) ont beneficie de
l'intervention de la DGPF.
3.    Le Code de la Famille
Ce code est destine a garantir le droit de la femme et des personnes. Le travail a ete realise en
deux phases dont (i) I'enquete socio-anthropologique sur les coutumes, traditions et les
comportements socioculturels des ethnies en Republique Centrafricaine, et (ii) la redaction du code.
Le document du Code a et redige et a obtenu I'approbation de I'Association. II a et presente a
I'Assemblee Nationale et vote le 15 Octobre 1997.



4.    Le plan d'action de la DGPF
La DGPF avait a charge de rediger un document de plan d'action visant I'amelioration de
1'education des femmes et des adultes. Le document devait etre presente en Decembre 1996. Les
termes de rdference du plan d'action ont ete rediges mais le document n'a pas ete elabore.
5.    L'Alphabetisation des adultes
Cette activite a ete executee par la Direction de l'Education Non Formelle (DENF) du
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Des cadres de cette Direction ont ete formes dans des pays
africains qui ont de 1'experience dans le domaine et les manuels d'alphabetisation ont ete elabores.
Mais la mise en application dans les differents centres de formation n'a pas ete faite pour en mesurer
l'efficacite.
PARLTIE C: PROGRAMME DE FORMATION DES ENSEIGNANTS
Suite a l'execution du programme de depart volontaire assiste (DVA), le deficit en
enseignants du fondamental I a atteint 1000 enseignants. L'objet de cette composante etait de
combler ce deficit en formant sur quatre annees, des promotions de 250 enseignants chacune en vue
(i) de reduire le ratio Elves/Maitre et E1eves/ classe (ii) ouvrir les ecoles fermees en province par
faute d'enseignant et (iii) ramener au plein temps le programme des classes qui fonctionnent au quart
temps.
La premiere promotion de cette formation a ete recrutee par l'administration. Les instituteurs
form6s ont ete principalement affectes dans les ecoles de province oa le besoin etait present. Par
contre, les deux dernieres promotions de 1996 et 1997 ne sont pas encore embauches.
La formation de la derniere promotion a connu d'enormes difficultes liees a la suspension des
financements . L'execution de cette composante n'a pas ete complete: au lieu de quatre promotions
de 250 stagiaires, il n'y a eu que trois promotions. En 1993 et 1994, la composante n'a pas
fonctionn6. L'IDA a manifeste une reticence au financement de cette composante, due au non
recnitement par l'administration des enseignants formes.
RESUME DES PERFORMANCES DE LA PART DU GOUVERNEMENT
La mise en oeuvre et l'execution du Projet DSAD n'ont pas connu de difficultes techniques
particulieres.
Le demarrage des activites dans les differentes composantes a connu des succes dans les
premieres annees. Certaines composantes (ECAM, CDS, EB et DGPF) ont bien fonctionne grace A
P'arrivee de plusieurs cadres ayant recu des formations de haut niveau dans les domaines de
l'economie, de la statistique et de la sociologie, et qui ont contribue efficacement a la conception et
la realisation des activites du Projet. Quelques retards ont ete constates dans certaines dates butoir.
Ces retards etaient dus essentiellement a (i) la lenteur dans l'execution des contrats de marches ainsi
que la livraison des biens indispensables au fonctionnement du projet et (ii) l'execution des contrats
de service de consultant qui, dans quelques cas, n'ont pas permis de bien conclure certaines etudes.
6



Une difficulte est apparue en 1995 au niveau institutionnel avec le depart du premier
Secretaire Coordonnateur et son Assistante et des deux hauts cadres de la composante ECAM. Le
Projet a ainsi fonctionne sans un management efficace pendant pres de six (6) mois. Les progres
acquis dans la composante ECAM ont et quelque peu ralentis provoquant des problemes dans la
gestion du materiel et du carburant.
A cela, il faut ajouter le difficile versement de la contrepartie nationale qui a occasionne des
arrieres tres importants. Le dernier amendement propose ~ la Banque a ramene toutes les categories
du budget a 100 % du financement IDA.
La mission de supervision de l'IDA de Decembre 1995 a permis de (i) restructurer le Projet
et lui donner d'autres orientations, (ii) amender I'Accord de Credit en vue de reallouer les ressources
a d'autres categories, (iii) designer une nouvelle equipe de direction du Projet et (iv) fixer les criteres
de performance.
A partir de cette date, les activites du Projet ont progresse regulierement jusqu'en Novembre
1996 lorsque la troisieme mutinerie de l'armee a declenche, empechant le bon fonctionnement de
I'administration. Avec la suspension des decaissements intervenue en Avril 1997, le Projet a connu
d'enormes difficultes dans son execution jusqu'au 31 Decembre 1997, date de cl6ture du Projet
Ainsi beaucoup d'activites sont restees inachevees.
Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement n'a pas recrute tous les instituteurs formes alors que le besoin en
enseiignant du Fondamental I demeure enorme.
ACTIONS FUTURES
Le Projet DSAD etait dans une phase de bonne execution apres la reorientation des objectifs
et les differents amendements apportes a l'Accord de Credit. Les evenements qui ont secoue le pays
en 1996 n'ont pas permis au projet de remplir son mandat dans les delais requis. Dans ce contexte, il
est hautement souhaitable que certaines ac1ivit6s soient finalisees voire poursuivies pour etre
perennisees.
On peut retenir (i) la mise en place de la banque de donnees socio-economiques sur support
electronique qui consistera une sorte de capitaLlisation des resultats de toutes les etudes et enquetes
menees dans le cadre du Projet, mais aussi un instrument de decision de politique sociale du
Gouvernement (ii) la creation d'une unite chargee du suivi des conditions de vie des menages, de
l'evaluation de la pauvrete et de la gestion et la. mise a jour de la banque de donnees issues de
1'enquete budget-consommation des menages, la finalisation des etudes specifiques engagees qui
concernent 1'estimation robuste du compte des menages au niveau de la comptabilite nationale et la
revision de la base de calcul des indices des prix a la consommation des menages.
La poursuite des actions ci-dessus citees eviterait dans un avenir proche d'entreprendre des
enquetes de grande envergure pour disposer cles donnees sur les menages, lesquelles donnees sont
indispensables pour la planification sociale. Le suivi de la pauvrete sera aussi assure.
Le dernier aspect concernant la definition de programmes et projets specifiques en direction
des groupes pauvres et vulnerables en vue de les faire participer au processus de developpement est
un volet qu'il faudra rapidement mettre en oeuvre.
7



EXECUTION FINANCIERE DU PROJET DSAD
Le contexte dans lequel le Projet a ete execute a eu des repercussions sur son ex6cution
financiere. Deux amendements importants ont ete apportes a I'Accord de Credit pour eviter des
depassements exageres sur les differentes categories du budget initial arrete au moment de la
signature de I'Accord. Ces amendements ont donc porte sur des reallocations entre les categories du
budget.
Malgre tout, en raison des difficultes eprouvees par le Gouvernement pour assurer sa part de
contribution au financement du Projet, certaines categories (notamment la categorie iv
fonctionnement) ont enregistre des depassements. Ces depassements resultent du prefinancement de
depenses de certaines categories a hauteur de 100 % sur le compte special.
Budget initial: 5 600 000 DTS soit 2.184.000.000 F CFA
Realisation   : 4 918 441,3 DTS soit 1 412 933 100 F CFA
soit un taux de realisation de 87,83 % pour la periode allant de novembre 1991 a decembre 1997.
Ce qui laisse un disponible de 984 781,6 DTS soit 419 061 806 F CFA propose a l'annulation.
x



Annexe 1
Le Projet Dimensions Sociales de l'Ajustement et
du Developpement (DSAD) en Centrafrique
Composante                   Ministere ou service          Programme
Secritariat                  Ministere du Plan             Coordination des activitds
des composantes du projet
Femme et Developpement
.Promotion de la      M.inistere de la famille     Appui institutionnel a la
Femme                et action sociale             proumotion de la Femme
. Education non       Ministere de l'education     Appui a l'alphabetisation
formelte             nationale                     fonctionnelle et formation des
fornateurs des adultes
. Code de lafamille   Ministere de la famille      Elaboration d'un code de la
et action sociale            famille et des personnes
D6veloppement                Ministere de la fami lie      Appui aux initiatives
Communautaire(*)             et action sociale             villageoises
Formation acc6lir6e          Ministere de l'Education      Fonner des instituteurs
des maitres                  Nationale                     du fondamental I
Enquetes Centrafricaines     Ministere du Plan             Developper et mettre ajour
aupres des menages           Division des Statistiques     une base de donnees socio
ecoiloniques sur les mdnages
et etudes sur la pauvrete
Cellule diu Developpement    Ministere du Plan             Etudes socio-economiques
Social                                                     axees sur la pauvretd et
cons6quences des PAS
Evaluation des               Ministere du Plan             Enquetes socio anthropolo-
BUnWficiaires                                              giques aupres des beneficaires
des projets
Formation des jeunes         Ministfre de                  Formation des jeunes deperdus
ruraux-                      Iagriculture: service         aux activiles agropastorales
civique nationale
de participation
Enquate de Suivi             Ministere du Plan             Suivi de l'impact de la devaluation
apres la devaluation                                       du FCFA sur les mnenages
Fitancement BAD
9



Auirmxe2 RekapitsdatiJ elesfore,wtionsfina,weks daiss IC, cadre clu Projet DSAD
PRIV    No r. .- Prdior                   F.sMcdoliposition                   Dounauti de Formnation                                       Date de formation                                    Observatlons
01       B.ANGO leon-Gabriel                  Charge de hlission Plan             Voyage ddtudes en Arique de I'Ouest sur le pilotage dun Fonds  octobre 92        Institutions gdrant des Fonids  Charge de Niission/Plan
Social (Senegal. Guhine, Cle d&Ivoire)                                           Sociaux
NIBAGUIA Paul-Thiodore              Ex Seaetaire-Coordonnateur! DS D    i. Voyage d'etudes en Afique de l'Ouest sur le pilotage d'un Fonds   octobre 92  Institutions gerant des Fonds    nest pbus au projet
~~  er   coor  teur' ~~~  Social (Skn6gal, G3uin6e, MOe cdivoire)                                          Soemaux                         DSAD
02
2. Planification et controle de projet                      octobre 93           SETYMI International
___________________ ___________________(C-ANADA)
3. Voyage detude pour nontage equte sur Ia devaluation      juin 94              FAO Rone Italie
4. Atelier suf les questiottnaires des rsultats des iravaux  mai 94              BI!CEA Addis Abeba (Ethiopie)
statistiques au niveau AriCeaui.
03       hlnse L.ENGUENDAYEN Eugenie          Assistante Secretaire-Coordonnateur  1. Procddure de decaissetnent a Washington                 septernbre 92        Banque blondiale                nest plus au Projet
2. Strategie de doveloppcnwent et nZgociation avec Is bailleurs de  Juil:'Aout 94  Inatitut FORHONI (France)
Ionds
3. Planification et coitrdle de projet                      juin juillet 94      SETYIl Inter. (CANADA)
4. Procedure des d&caissnme,tts Banque NIondiale           imai 94               BAD Abidjan (C6te d'ihoire)
04       POUNZI Donminique                    Gestioluaire ElCA\IM                I. Nlanagement de progranunes et projets de dCveloppetrent  juillet 94           Universite de Connecticut (USA)   n'est plus au projet
2. N1ethodes de recherche et evaluation de projet ct progranunes de   juillet 93       --
d6veloppetment
oS       ZtAAII Niolse                        Directeur Tecluniqtue ElB et Expert  I . Mthodes de recherelhe et evaluation de projet et prograiiuses de   juillet 93     -                         Responsable de CDS
Sociologue CDS EB                  d&veloppemnent                                                                                                    DSAD
2. Voyage d'elude pour montage enquLdte sur la devaluation  Juin 94              FAO(PRIVE)
(ESCM)                                                                           RONIE
(ITI.-UIE)
06        NIB.ATOUBE LAuther                  Charge de Nlissioni                 Strat0gie d, INveloppemnent ct Negociations avec les Bailleurs des  Jiii. Aout 94  Institut                      Charge de mission
au Plan  Gojids                                                                  FORHONI                         au Plan
Responsable de la Division                                                                                           (FRANCE)
des Relationis Extcdieures
07       GuiLorr Gilbert                      Expen National I la cellitle        Analy.se dtil piojet                                         Aotlt 94            1 Iniversit A'l'ANTA            Cellule ONC au PLat
des ONG aLl Mlan                                                                                                    ((S.A)
09        DOROSSI NIarie I aure               Charg; de Nkthiodologie             Assalhse et traitemiient des donnstes                       Jli.94               liislitut FORIHONI              Charge Methodologie
ECA1                                                                                                               (FRANCE)                         EcAMl



I U      GOULA Ra) mond                       .                                                                 * .                                       94             Institut                         Reprise des
FORkIOMI                          6tudes i
(FRANCE)                          I'eraunger
I I       WAZOGBIA Gisele                       Adjoint chef de                       I raiternent infonniatique                                      Jui /94             Institut                          Reprise des
Collecte 1ECz"M                                                                                                           FORIIONI                          etudes ai l'tranger
(FRANCE)
12        YAMBASSAI Dieudonne                   Scr6taire de Direction               Maniagement pour Secretaire de Direction ct                    Nov. Dec.94          CAMPC (CoTE d'lVOIRE)             Secretaire de
Secretariat DSAD                     Assistant Administratil                                                                                               Direction DSAD
13        HERENIO J. Michel                     Comptable                            Audit itteme assistw par ordinateur                            Nov. 94               CAMPC (C6TE d'lVOIRE)             Comptable    +
MSAD                                                                                                                                                        DS-AD
14        GREMlBANGUI Pauline                   Secrntaire EB                        Sccr,tariat ifonnatiquie                                        F&. Mlars 95         Centre d'infonmation              Sans emploi
Appliqu6e
D.AKAR
I5        YEKOUA Lucie                          Secretaire CDS                       Secretariat                                                       -                  --                               Secr6taire
Inlibnnatique                                                                                                         CDS
16        NGBANZA Jeannot                      Serentaire-Coordonnateur DSAD         I. ethodes d' Enquete                                          Nlai Juin 95         Bureau of Census(LUSA) Institut    SecrMtaire-coord.
ECAM                                 2. Confirence sur la pauivrete                                 Novembre 92           des stat.Norvege                  DSAD
3. Stabilisation et ajustemeint stniettirel                    Mai Juin 97          IIAP de Paris
1 7       YAINGANA Augustin                     Directeur FANI                       Gestiont de projet de Cooperation E- ducative                   Nov.95               CIEP FRANCE                      Fonction Publique
ts        xi .! ACtt.! OY AglV !!!!             CO!!i:epletir lflm-! lte'lr           slu.fi.ltn des  finuss italntiabetisatuion ct                 Mlai. 95              CESAO                             Gestionmaire
Ciestionnaire D)ENF                  Iost. alphabetisation                                                                (Ouagadougou)                     DENI'
Burkina- Faso
19       N113AINO(TNDJiM  Perkys                Respormsabllct'llvcte                 I raitemeitt Isfimnatique                                     Juil..-\oit 95        ENSIA (Cote d'ivoire)            Responisable
ECAAI                                                                                                                                                      Collecte ECAI
20        GBAZA Samtiel                         Direcieiur a la Division              Iraitemcen Infoniati(qtue                                      JuilAcoat 95         ENSE A (Cote d'svoire)           Directeur i ia
des Statistiqiics ani                                                                                                                                      DSEE  Plain
Plaln DSEI
21        GAMBA Simon                           Charge detudos DSEL                  TI raitenmeint hifomnatiqLic                                   Jil. Sept 95          ENSEA                             Charge d'tudes
DSEE
22        NDALLOT Faustin                      Responsable Unite                     I. Iraitement Inibnsatique                                      Juil. Aott 95       ENSEA                             n'est plus au Projet
Ilodnnatique l.CAM
2. Seinuiaire sur I' enquete prioritaire GlITINEE             NMai 93               Mliiiistere du PLani              ECAM
_______________  GUINEE
23       OUALEGUE NIOUSSA                      Indfonsaticien EC,"I                   .                                                                -  93                 . *                           Sans eimploi
24        KOLik\';KA Samuel                    Charg& Nlethodologie ECAl IIaitemenit Infimnatiqtue                                                  Juil Aout 93         ENSEA (C6te-d`lvoire)             Reprise des etudes aux
USA
25       ISSEN Mustapha                        Cbarg6 d'tudes DSEE                      - .                                                          . * .                                                 Charge d'etudes DSEE
26        W.ALIKANGA Clotilde                  Presideute (roupeinent "BLEOIO" de    - Fabrication (a mi                                            Mai 95               Groupements leinnines te          Presidente du
B(OSSA\N(( )\ (1)1')                 - Teinture                                                                          Ot UA IU)t)l ItOk I (Bl IRKINA    t(iroupemiient
- Tissa5e                                                                           FASO)                                     _
27       TAV(O Irene                           Sccretaire G i4;rale de gnoupeenit    - Sapoiiticationi (Sas a    local)                              . - .                                                 Secretaire Genk6ale du
(DPF)                                - Clvainui) coatuinunaulutairc                                                                                        grolipeinent



28        NI3BOISSIMON Sidwie                  Secr6taire Gelerale de groupeineit      Fabrication de vrnie                                           - .                   -
Champ Connmunuatttaire
29        KOFESSEMI VWronique                   Secretaire Generale de groupement    - lIlaniflcation                                                . *- .                 *-                             Se.retaire Gne&ale de
(DPF)                                                                                                                                                      groupemeit
30        M (XiA Edith                          Secretaire Generale de gronipemeit   - Fabrication de corditure                                       -    .                                               Secretaire Generale de
(DPFG)                                Cari                                                                                                                 grooipement
-Sirop
31        NGATCHOUJ Antoinette                  Directrice de la DGPF                Conseillere en fomiation de fonnatrice de groupement           JuilletJAout 94      CEFAMI (COTONOU)                  Directrice de la DGPF
32        GONINDJI Miarie Claude                Chef de Service d. Ia Progranumation  Conseillere en formation de fomnatrice de groupeinent           . - .                 .
des activites (DGPF)
33        SOKONY Didier                         Direletur Technique de l ECAMI       Atelier sur la realisation denquCie prioritaire ia CONACRY     Mai 93               Ministre du Plan GUINEE           Charge de Mission
DSEE
2. .Uelier sur les Resultats des Travaux Statistiques au Niveau
Africain (Addis A,bha)                                         Mai 95               BM.CEA ETIIIOPIE
3. Ateher sur EP du TCHAD                                      Dec.92
Ministere du Plan DJIAMENA
(TCHAD)
4. Atelier sur utilisation au Statistiques                     Juin. 95
ISI (Chine)      FA>O ROMIE
5. \Voyge d;tudc's lper Icilniagcdelet iletNuq     siur la d-valualioai    Juin. 94  ("l''-"-)
F                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I.SC'I)_
34       .AD-ANI AIAA I.Af                      D;.mographc ECAII                   .Atliersat les r4silats des travatixStatistiquesano Niveauix    Nai. 95              13N1 CEA                          Reprise etudes a
AIiicain (Addis Abeba)                                                              EllIIOP'IE                        I tranger
35        NIADA NAIA.IIBI                       Directeur National ECANI              Xtelier st, El dIo IdCIIAD                                    Dec. 92              Mlinist.re du Plain DJI.AENx      Directeur General
(TCHAD)                           ONIFOP
36        ..NDJIG)30-NI)J.\N(i.A .Xlini) Directeutr DNI                  I FlPaificationen .AlphbaWltisation ct Ediucalioni de B;ase                Jam . 95             Iztstiiltione Ib ma;tionl et e)irectetir DENF
d'.Uphabtisation (TOGO)
37        FIO-ETONINA                          Chefde Ser ice Dl.NF                  Activit.s dlUphab6tisation et dEdicaktion enl milieu Rural     Janv.95              linstitution de foliiatio,i et    Chefde Service DENF
Dickeur-Bemard                                                                                                                .d.Aphab6tisation (TOGO)
38        NIASSIKINI Nliatltorin               Chef de Service DENF                  Education et 1'resse RuIral                                   FI\e. 95              Direction AlphabMtisation DAEB    Chef de Sen ice DENF
_______________________. ._  _ ._________________                  (SENEGAL.)
39        Dieudonte YA.IBASSA                  Secretaire de Direction DS U)         I)e cloppinient des capacitWs manag&riales cl pratique de      Janvier 96          histitut Suprieur de Secr6tariat   Secr6taire de Direction
comIIII1LIIiCat ioJ ellicaces pwar l analvsc is tratnsactionieIle ct eingnierie     de Gestioni et de Bureautique     DSAD
des r.essouices hulltiaines                                                         (ISSG1i)
40       Jeall-Nichel lIE:Rl.M0(               GisioDnaite-CDoiqmtble lSAi)                                                                                              CANIPC - Ahidjani (Cote dIvoire)   Gestionnairc-Comptable
DSAD



42        KPANOLT Charlk                       Charge d N Wthodologie EC AM I        'Iraitciiment des donji&cs                                     aout.sept 96         INSEA - Abidjan                   Charge de Method.
(Cote d'hoire)                   EC.AI
43        Mine XV%TNIAUI (kmn, i.&e              (ill:                            F| Frimationi des coiiseilIs et) eianagcInIIt e nItrIeprcLeIuial pour    ao6ivsOpt. 96  COTONAO - Ct)ToNol.r (iciin)    D(il'l:
L  iiuo dilesd Aiiqueo lmicophon.e
44        Ninme YANGONGO-BOGANDA                DGPF                               |Ionmation des conseill.rs en milaniagemienit ci eitrepretlleriat pour    aoutsept. 96  CEFAXIME - COTONOt I (B3enin)    DGPF
L Uphonsine                                                              | fenunes d'Afrique faicophone                                    _



Ann,exe3 RWcapitulatif d/es etudes rnolisees par le Projet DSAD
. PRIVE   Theme de l'Etuudc                                               Commanditaire                  Date de
}N                                                                                                      realisation
0) I     Elude de faisabilild en vue de l'institution d'un fonds social   Ministerc du Plan              Fdv. 93                                               -
02       Etude de faisabilitd prealable A I'alphabetisation des femnnies  Ministere de l'Educ. Nationale  mai-juin 92
centrafricaines en milieu rural et urbain
03       Causes profondes des deperditions scolaires au niveau secondaire en  Femmes et Developpement    Janvier 1994
RCA, mesures correctives
04       L'Organisation des Formnes traditionnelles d'epargne que constituent les  Femimles et Developpement  Septembre 1994
tontines en RCA
05       Inventaire Thematique des etudes socio-economiques realisdes en RCA   Cellule du Developl Social  Septembre 1994
- TOME I
06       Inventaire Thematique des etudes socio-economiques realisees en RCA   Cellule du D16elopt Social  Septembre 1994
- TONE 2
07       Impact socio-economique diu barrage de la Mbali sur les populationis  Celluie dti D1  eloppement  Novembre 1994
rurales environnantes                                           Social
08       Plan d'action de la Direction Gdneralc de la Promotion dc la Femme  Feminne et Ddveloppemnent   Mai 1994
(9       Adequation de la Formation Professionielle des filles au mnarche de  Femmne et D1veloppenient   Juillet 1994
I'emploi
10       Atelier de Fornation des Cadres de la DENF sur l'diaboralion du  Direction de l'Educationi Non  Septembre/
programme d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle et de la conception du  Formelle                     Octobre 95
materiel didactique
I I      Faisabilite de la double vacation des Maitres                   CDS                            Octobre 1994
12       Profil de la pauvrete en Republique Centrafricaine en 1992      Minist&e du Plan                1992
13       Evaluation du compte des meinages et estimaitioni de la consomilliaition    Division des Statistiques et des    1996
des menages                                                     Etudes EconmiiqLies
14       Elaboration d'un indice des prix a la consomiimiation avec les donnces    Division des Statistiques et des    1996
de l'EIBC                                                       Etudes Econmiiqties
15       Impact des anides blancihes stir la scolarisation               Ministere de l'Education        1995
Natioammilc



Tableau A: Budget initial a la signature de I'Accord.
Categorie           Montant       % de Depenses
Affecte          a Financer
(Excirim6 en
DTS)
1.   Services de consultants.   1.650000            100 %
etudes, formations et
seminaires
2.  Travaux de                   10(. 000           95 %
genie civil
3. Materiel et vehicules         475. 000           100 %
4. Depenses additionnelles
de fonctionnement
a) Pour la Partie A          800.000        95 %jusquau 31
du Projet                                  decembre 1994 et
70 % par la suite
b) Pour les parties         1. 190. 000         85 %
B et C du Projet
5. Remboursement des avances                   Montants dus aux
pour la preparation du Projet    610.000     ternes de la section
2.02 eC) de l'Accord
de credit
6. Non affecte                   775.00
TOTAL                           5.600.000
t



Tableau B: R6aliocation des Fonds du Projet propos6e le 4 Mars 1996
Cat6gorie              Montant      '/ode Depenses
Affecte         a Financer
(Ex2rime en
DTS)
1.  services de consultants,   1.650.000          100 %
6tudes, formations et
s6minaires
2.  Travaux de                   80.000            95 %
genme civil
3. Mat6riel etvehicules        1.170.000          100 %
4. Depenses additionnelles
de fonctionnement
a) Pour la Partie A         1.650.000      100 %jusqu'au
du Projet                                 30 Juin 1995 et
85 % par la suite
b) Pour les parties
B et C du Projet           40.000      100 %jusqu'au 30
Juin 1995 et
85 % par la suite
5. Remboursement des avances                 Montants dus aux
pour la pr6paration du Projet   270.000     termes de la section
2.02 ( de I'Accord
de credit
6. Non affect6                  740.000
TOTAL                          5.600.000
2



Tableau C  Amendements de I'Accord de Cr6dit du 4 Novembre 1996
Categorie              Montant      %/ode Depenses
Affecte         a Financer
{Exprime en
DTS)
1.   Services de consultants,   1.825.000         100 %
6tudes, formations et
s6minaires
2.  Travaux de
genie civil                  80.000           100 %
3. Materiel et vehicules        1.427. 000        100 %
4. Depenses additionnelles
de fonctionnement
a) Pour la Partie A
du Projet                   1.651.000          100 %
b) Pour les parties
B et C du Projet           55.000           100 %
5. Remboursement des avances                   Montants dus
pour la preparation du Projet    270.000      aux termes de la
section 2.02 (C) de
I'Accord de
credit
6. Non affecte                   292.000
TOTAL                           5.600.000
4



IBRRI 29651
NIGER           CHA
NIGER  ./  CHAD   /                                                                          20                                          8'                                  25'            CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
/                                                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T NhARIA
SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                REPUBLIC CENTRAFRICAINE
NIGERIA  /               SUDAN                                                                                        ,<t             Sir                                            POPULATION DENSITY BY PREFECTURE
NIGERIA      L            ' j                                                                                                           t                                                        DENSITE DEMOGRAPHIQUE PAR PREFECTURE
/   -  CENTRAJ.   KW I                                                                                                                II
U   AFR CAN REPUBEIC                                                                                             U
CAOEROON                                                           C    H   A    D                                   r                                          I                                                   POPULATON DENRSDY CY PREFECTURE
--            d9                                                                       NHADITANTS PER SUOARE K IOWTFPR]
0; 0 M  -  _. >    /   UGANDA  T   C   H   A    D                   ,G5;            ';      /       '                                                                    DENSITE DEMOGRAPH OUE PAR PRENTD fCTRE
UT   Lm,         -       jDEMOCRATIC                                          ,b. T
;t GAEON ( CONGOj    REPUBLIC OF                                                                                                                                                                                  --- 7 50
CONGOO
'  u  d  b  d  E   w                      t        W          "  '       '                 X     ;  f   W-          S                     11 X      BY PREFE lu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPREEEUR
GA O    C)  fit  
CONGO                                                                                                                     DIM- "j Y o o u n d 5I_    !   l l ll  -  \                       ROUMTAERSYPRREONAL^EARRL EA I
\   SLLLni/5Q3>'4/  J  (:  REPUBLIQUE    DEMOCRATIQUE    DU    CONGO                                                               V5    PROVIN(E/PREFECTUREcApnALOEMORAPHIUE PA PRPPCTIIR
SECONAR PROPLADTSON DENS ALES
t  i  02/   0                                         10    50    10X0    I'iO    2T0    2'iOKILOhrETERS                 -'-    NTERNATONAlbOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~ROTES ECON)AIR
BYUPRESEROURES
_          DEMOCRATIC R B     OF C                                                G O  ,'  - - L
0                PCOIN E/OERE.UR C:;I7h LES
Kw 0  /T/< cY2s-   -  >  :_  ZS  on IhEd ((FUR GE P TR EFECLURE
CAM   ER          1U5                                                         I                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE/PBBRECYURB BOUNDARIESpls0
B                                                                                                                                            ((MIRES DES PREFECTURES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To  -                                                                                        m.b ~CN O          -                                                                   UTTo   pUAoo,I,4pI,,I  rIA,E,
CONGO  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEODR OD
25~ ~~~~~~ROTSSCNAR 
TA                                                             TA         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       pTUUC~~~~~~~~~O!,URE UB IQ E DE OC ATTEUUUON O  UE,APTAE



