Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Additional Financing 
Appraisal Stage 
Report No.: AB5798 
 
Project Name 
Support to Agriculture and Forestry Project 
Region AFRICA 
Sector 
Agriculture and Rural Development 
Project ID 
P104786 
Borrower(s) 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Government of 
Southern Sudan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Government of Southern 
Sudan 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X ] B   [] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 30, 2010 
Date of Approval by the 
RVP  
May 13, 2010 
A. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
 
1. Political 
context: 
The signing of the
 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) 
between the Government of Sudan and the Sudanese Peoples’ Liberation Movement in 2005 and 
the endorsement of the Interim Period Constitution brought an end to a protracted civil war and a 
long period of major political and economic instability in Sudan. With the exception of Darfur, 
most of the country now enjoys calm and peace. The civil war had a devastating impact on South 
Sudan leading to the displacement of more than four million people, and destruction of 
infrastructure. It also precluded government’s investment in social services thus constraining 
availability and access to basic public services.  
2.
 
Emerging from conflict syndrome persists:
 With the substantial increase in 
domestically generated revenues, increased donor flows and international support consequent to 
the CPA, South Sudan is still afflicted by the “emerging from conflict syndrome” and faces 
daunting challenges to full recovery and reconstruction. The poverty rate is estimated at 90 
percent, large swaths of the country are still isolated and underdeveloped, access to basic 
services is minimal, institutional and organizational capacity is weak, maternal mortality is the 
highest in the world and chronic malnutrition and food, and nutrition insecurity is prevalent. The 
economy is public-sector driven and depending on the $1-2 billion in annual oil rents that comes 
to Government.  Years of conflict prior to 2005 prevented significant investment in infrastructure 
and destroyed much of what existed, which has impeded the emergence of a viable indigenous 
private sector and hindered the development of market supporting institutions.  Market linkages 
are virtually non-existent, and there is a dearth of skilled indigenous Southern Sudanese.   
3.
 
Agriculture important for livelihoods in the South but is constrained: 
Besides the oil 
sector, agriculture is expected to be the other driver of growth and structural transformation of 
the Southern Sudanese economy.   It is a mainstay for the livelihoods of over 95 percent of the 
Page  2
2
population and represents the best opportunity for broad-based enhancement of livelihoods in the 
country. Approximately 85 percent of households produce crops and 65 percent own cattles. 
Among other constraints, crop productivity is weighed down by low technology and occasional 
droughts while livestock production is mostly plagued by endemic and epidemic diseases, 
limited capacity of the government to efficiently and sustainably control infectious diseases, low 
nutritive value of feed sources and seasonal water shortages.  Typically, the majority of farmers 
live in areas with poor market access, poor rural infrastructure, remoteness to major towns, 
deficient institutions, organizations and policies, and often with limited support from research 
and extension agencies. Their small landholdings limit their capacity to produce large volumes of 
staple crops such as sorghum, millet and maize which have large domestic markets. 
 
4.  
GoSS strategy to address low agricultural productivity:
 The GoSS is committed to 
and has made progress towards a coherent agricultural and rural development strategy that will 
raise agricultural productivity and increase marketed outputs. A hallmark of this strategy is its 
pro-poor focus and includes such measures as promoting small scale irrigation development to 
reduce dependence on rainfall; improving rural roads and communication to ensure appropriate 
functioning of internal input and output markets; ensuring that agricultural research and 
extension services respond to actual smallholder  demand; increasing the number of quick impact 
agricultural interventions benefiting resource-poor farmers; enhancing service delivery by 
improving physical and other rural infrastructure; establishing institutional arrangements to guide 
policy formulation and legislation at all levels; and diversifying agricultural production.
 
5.
 
While much progress has been made in terms of Government leadership on the policies, 
plans and strategies, its capacity to fund and implement development programs still remains 
weak.  This situation has been further exacerbated by the global financial crisis. The experience 
with the recent global downturn underscores the need for improved volatility management.    
Better volatility management will also enhance macroeconomic stability and the environment for 
growth and poverty reduction.  Toward this end, fiscal planners need to take a medium term 
approach to managing oil revenue particularly for the GoSS where the dependence on oil 
revenues is extreme and expenditure volatility is more severe.  GoSS intends to develop a rural 
framework and vision that would promote sector wide approach to addressing growth through 
the commercialization of the farming communities. 
 
6.
 
Current support to the government strategy: 
Like in most post-conflict settings, 
support to agricultural services has been provided by a multiplicity of actors, including NGOs 
which are supported by bilateral (e.g. USAID) and multilateral agencies (e.g. European 
Commission);   UN agencies (e.g. FAO, IFAD, UNDP, WFP) and the World Bank. The MDTF-
SS contributions to the sector include a US$13.2 million Livestock and Fisheries Development 
Project whose objective is to improve performance of the livestock and fisheries sectors in 
selected states and an ongoing five-year Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development 
Project (SAFDP) that seeks to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers. 
 
Page  3
3
7. 
Performance of the Project:
 
As of April 2010, twenty one months after 
effect
iveness, the overall rating of SAFDP’s progress towards attainment of its stated 
development objective is moderately satisfactory.  A Mid –Term Review (MTR) carried out in 
November 2009 to assess progress and success of  the implementation recommended: (i) 
deepening and increasing investments in technology transfer through consolidation of the current 
farmers’ groups  while adding new groups for equity purposes; (ii) decentralizing decisions on 
choice and prioritization of technologies so as to be responsive to local enterprises and 
productivity constraints; and (iii) mainstreaming project implementation through available 
government channels at the State and County levels so as to build long-term capacity in the 
public sector.
 
The proposed additional financing will be used to build the on-going SAFDP 
activities in a design that reflects findings from the Mid-Term Review of 2009. The Project will 
support:  (i) scaling-up of the initial support to the already participating five (5) States and 
Counties; (ii) completion of on-going agricultural contracts in the physical infrastructure 
renovation as well as in policy development; and (iii) capacity and institutional development of 
GoSS, the States and Local Governments.  
 
B
Rationale for Bank Involvement  
 
8. 
The proposed activities are consistent with the current Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for 
Sudan dated March 2008, which proposes to support the GoSS to address three key challenges: 
improvement of governance; increasing access to basic services; and ensuring sustainable and 
diversified pro-poor growth--especially in war-affected and marginalized areas. The proposed 
intervention under the global food crisis, while unforeseen, responds to GoSS’ and the Bank’s 
continued focus on short-term stabilization and rapid response to emergency needs. This 
operation’s specific interventions areas have direct linkages to economic revitalization and basic 
services work that the Bank is already supporting through the MDTF-SS.  Importantly, financing 
South Sudan as a territory of a country in arrears will strengthen the Bank’s re-engagement 
policy thereby supporting its own participation in the agriculture and rural development sector 
work. 
 
C. 
Project Objectives and Description 
 
9. 
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to increase agricultural 
productivity of smallholder households by facilitating the adoption of improved 
technologies and strengthening capacities of the Central, State and County-
level governments and the private sector to plan and respond to identified 
needs in the agriculture and forestry sector.  This Objective will be achieved 
through two inter-related mechanisms: (a) encouraging an accelerated supply 
response through the use of productivity-enhancing technologies. This strategy 
will fund short- to long-term interventions that accelerate the production of 
staple foods, and forestry and livestock products for both own-consumption and 
sale.  
 
10 
 
Key investments would include: the provision of advisory services, 
expanding technology outreach through NGOs, developing and/or introducing 
Page  4
4
crop and livestock production and marketing technologies and accelerating 
investment in food storage and the reduction of post-harvest losses at both the 
farm and local authority levels; and (b) capacity development measures that 
will include staff training, drafting of policies and legislation and investment in 
civil works’ rehabilitation and renovation. These activities will target 
approximately 142, 857 households including those already targeted under the 
ongoing support. 
 
D. 
 Summary of Project Components
 
Component 1:
 Support to Agricultural Services (US$9.8 million)  
 
11. 
The objectives of this component are to: (i) promote and implement pluralistic, client 
oriented and responsive agricultural advisory service provision; and (ii) set up an effective 
agricultural research system the activities of which are targeted and demand-driven, and geared 
towards better collaboration with advisory services and the markets. This component is 
organized around two sub-components: (a) Support to Agricultural Advisory Services; and (b) 
Support to Technology Development and Transfer. The component will be implemented in 
partnership with the Norwegian People’s Aid (NPA), other NGOs and specialized organizations, 
most of which have already been selected. 
 
12. 
 Sub-component 1: Support to Agricultural Advisory Services:
Under this subcomponent, 
support will be provided for the delivery of improved agricultural advisory services to selected 
producers in crops, forestry, livestock and fisheries value chains. Specific activities to be funded 
include: (i) provision of advisory and information services to smallholders based on identified 
priority activities; (ii) supporting emerging agribusiness and market linkages in relatively 
accessible areas; and (iii) supporting provision of quality technical services to producers- through 
oversight and regulation by MAF and MAARI. The Project will finance Technical Assistance, 
agricultural inputs, information development and consultations to aid the delivery of improved 
agricultural advisory services to selected producers. This sub-component will build on the 
pluralistic and demand-driven advisory service delivery that is funded by MAF.  It will expand 
the activities currently implemented by NPA by increasing outreach to an additional 71,873 
households as well as assisting the initial beneficiaries to move up identified value-chains. The 
farmer-group based approach and farmer empowerment will remain central to the service 
delivery model, and will be strengthened as key elements of program implementation. The 
concept of farmer progression from subsistence to market orientation will be fully developed, to 
support progressive commercialization of small holder agriculture. Funding 
will also be 
provided 
to a number of demonstrative micro-projects (special projects) that are designed to 
support the introduction of new technology and innovations prioritized and selected by farmer 
groups whose capacity is strengthened. In light of their experience, MAF and MAARIs would 
also have the latitude to recommend micro-projects for financing. :13. 
Sub-component 
2: 
Support to Technology Development and Transfer.
Funding under this sub-component will 
continue support to agricultural research, training and outreach through three interrelated 
activities currently implemented by the Project and other development partners. First, the project 
will finance all costs related to technology development and adaptation including: (i) costs 
related to on-going collaborative adaptive research - at various research centers in the five agro-
Page  5
5
ecological zones in the targeted States - which responds to priority production constraints in the 
dominant production and resource management systems; (ii) selective research to address high 
priority problems in production of crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries; (iii) adaptation of 
technologies (e.g. drought-resistant germplasm and enhanced soil/water management) and 
studies on mitigation of the effects of charcoal burning and climatic change.  Second, the Project 
will also scale-up outreach and technology dissemination
 
by financing all the costs related to 
NPA technology transfer - the consolidation of the gains reached last season as well as 
expanding it into new areas by improving the collaboration between advisory services and 
research. Finally, under this subcomponent, support will be provided to initiate capacity 
strengthening of the agricultural research system through establishment of an Agricultural 
Research Council to provide vision as well as initiate work on the issues relating to the 
governance of agricultural research in Southern Sudan.  
Component 2: 
Support to
 
Institutional Development (US$13.9 million) 
 
14. 
Within the context of the MDTF-SS framework, this component will support: (i) 
development of selected policies (e.g. agricultural research, agricultural advisory services and 
seeds policy) and a policy framework for rural development so as to facilitate a sector-wide 
approach to agriculture and rural development; (ii) complete the rehabilitation and/or 
development of physical infrastructure for research, training and administration at the State and 
local government levels, which started under Phase I; (iii) training of the core staff of project 
implementing agencies (MAF/MARF and MAARIs) through specialized and medium-term 
courses, identified through a needs assessment and in accordance with the projected strategic 
direction of the sector; and (iv) provision of essential items including VSAT, computers, and 
general logistical support.  
 
Component 3: 
Support to Project Implementation (US$2.6 million) 
 
15. 
This component will finance the administrative costs of the implementing NGOs, 
operational costs, technical assistance, training, and the purchase of goods and equipment for the 
project implementation units (PIUs). Support will thus be provided to strengthen the co-
ordination of public institutions at the GoSS, State and Local Government levels as well to the 
management of a number of different activities including monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and 
information and communication strategy and services will be funded.   
 
E. 
Program Costs and Financing Plan
 
16. 
Summary costs per component are presented in Tables 2 and 3, and detailed in Annex 4. 
The project will use a report-based method of disbursement.   
Table 2: Project costs by Component 
 
Component 
 Cost (US$ million) 
YR1 YR2 
Total 
Support to  Agricultural Services 
4.1
5.7
9.8 
Support to  Institutional Development 
4.1
9.5
13.6 
Page  6
6
Support to Project Implementation   
0.5
2.1
2.6 
Grand Total 
8.7 17.3 
26.0 
Table 3: Expenditure accounts 
 
Account 
Cost (US$ million)
 
YR1
YR2
Total
Works
 
3.5
7.6
11.1
Goods
 
0.6
1.6
2.2
Consultants' Services
 
0.2
3.3
3.5
Farmer Grants
 
3.2
3.8
7.0
Training
 
0.6
1.4
2.0
Operating Costs
 
0.6
0.7
1.3
Grand Total
 
8.7
17.3
26.0
F. 
Project Implementation 
 
17. 
Project Implementation Period
:
The Project will be implemented over the period of 
June 2010 to June, 2011, which is the time available under the MDTF-SS legal framework.  
Given the seasonality of agricultural activities and the plans already developed, US$3.5 million 
would be required for urgent procurement of agricultural tools and inputs by the lead NGOs by 
June 2010, to cover some 20,000 HHs. 
 
18.
 
Project Organization Arrangements
:
A
Policy Steering Committee (PSC) is already 
operational and provides policy oversight and guidance to all projects in the sector. Its 
membership includes the Ministers of the relevant ministries (6) of the Natural Resource sector 
in the GoSS and State’s Ministers responsible for natural resources from the five States 
implementing the Project. The PSC is supported by a multi-sectoral technical 
secretariat/committee (TC) drawn from the sector working group. The TC provides overall 
technical coordination, reviews implementation progress of all projects and provides technical 
guidance to the implementing ministries and agencies. The Directors General in the MAF and 
MAARIs as well as the Undersecretaries of MAF are members of the TC. 
 
19.
 
Project Implementation Arrangements
:
MAF will have overall oversight of the project 
through a three-tier implementation team at the GoSS, State and the County levels. At each of 
these levels, 
internal coordination committees (ICC)
 comprising of technical teams and 
chaired by senior civil servants (MAF  Undersecretaries at the GoSS level, Directors General at 
the State level and County Executive Directors at the  County level) will continue to take 
responsibility for project implementation.  At the lower levels, prominent NGOs working in the 
sector have been invited to participate and provide technical support in the implementation 
oversight 
Page  7
7
20. 
A Project Focal Point (PFP) - at the level of a DG - appointed by the Minister of 
Agriculture and Forestry is in charge of the day-to-day management of the Project with the help 
of a core team of Technical Assistants namely: a Project Management Facilitation expert 
seconded by FAO, a national Project Support Officer to manage the day-to-day implementation 
of the Project activity in consultation with the PFP, a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Officer, 
a
Financial expert and a Procurement expert.  Four government staff have been trained and now 
seconded to work with the TAs in the procurement and finance units. 
 
21. 
Specific deliverables under Components 1 and 2 will be managed by the PIU with the 
support of specialized organizations, NGOs and the TAs, who will be selected competitively by 
the ICCs.  For each of the support areas identified, the specialized Directorates of the MAF will 
take the lead in providing technical support to the States and the Counties.  It should be noted 
that the proposed implementation arrangements are structured to ensure that both the short and 
longer-term development interventions are well embedded in the existing structures.  A similar 
arrangement is provided at the State and County levels with the Norwegian People’s Aid – an 
NGO - providing technical support and management facilitation roles. In addition, these 
structures have been tested in the last 20 months and based on the Mid-Term Review of 2009 
recommendations; additional support to improve their operational performance has been 
incorporated into this proposal. 
 
22. 
The civil works, including the construction of government offices, low-cost on-farm or 
area-based food banks will be out-sourced to the private and NGOs sectors.  MAF has already 
initiated the expression of interest (EOIs) process that requires these entities to develop technical 
and financial proposals with the State and County governments. Technical skills needed to 
support the implementation of these activities have already been included in the budget under 
component 3.  As far as the work of the ICC and the PIU is concerned, different specialists in the 
MAF as well as in the MAARIs will take the lead in supervising specific activities within their 
mandate. Additional skills particularly in analytical areas and monitoring & evaluation, are 
already in place and where required, have been provided for in the budget. The respective 
Directors General at the State level will provide technical oversight of the activities falling 
within their portfolios and will be financed through the PIU for this activity.  
 
G. Sustainability 
 
23. Concerning 
sustainability
,
it must be underlined that the project’s main concern is to 
respond to a crisis and mitigate its negative impacts. While some aspects of the program are 
sustainable, particularly those resulting from Component 1 and 2, others are clearly efforts to 
prevent livelihood security from total collapse. 
 
Like most emergency programs, some aspects of 
Component 3 are fiscally unsustainable since it is unlikely that government resources will be 
able to continue with the program.  Besides, it would be GoSS intention to see that direct food 
import does not dampen local production.  In this context, although continued international 
support can be anticipated in the future in these specific areas, GoSS would maintain vigilance in 
leading the development of policies that would link humanitarian support to development.
 
Page  8
8
H. Safeguard 
Policies 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered 
Yes 
No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X 
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 
X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 
X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X 
 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 
X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 
X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 
X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 
X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50) 
 
X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 
X 
20. 
Contacts
:
(a)  John J Oloya 
Senior Rural Development Specialist 
Tel: (249) 121 727 729 
Email: 
joloya@worldbank.org
(b) Christine Cornelius 
Program Coordinator 
Email: 
ccornelius@worldbank.org
For more information contact:  
 
The InfoShop 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-4500 
 
Fax (202) 522-1500 
 Web: 
http:/
www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  9
9
