The World Bank                                            1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                           March 23, 2011

        H.E. David Deng Athorbei
        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS)
        Juba, The Sudan

                                The Sudan: MDTF-SS Grant No. TF099010
             Additional Financing for Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project

        Excellency:

                In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Government of
        Southern Sudan (“Recipient? or “GoSS?), I am pleased to inform you that the International
        Development Association (“World Bank?), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
        various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (“MDTF-SS?), proposes to
        extend to the Recipient for the benefit of the Sudan (“Member Country?), a grant in an amount not
        to exceed fourteen million United States Dollars (US$ 14,000,000) (“Grant?) on the terms and
        conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement?), which includes the
        attached annex (“Annex?) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to
        the Original Project as described in the Annex (“Project?).

                 This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank
        receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as
        defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to
        the availability of such funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement.

                 Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
        official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to
        the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement
        shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                                          Very truly yours,
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                                 By/s/ Ian Bannon
        Acting Director of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and Fragile States Cluster

        AGREED:
GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN


By: /s/ David Deng Athorbei
       Authorized Representative

H.E. David Deng Athorbei
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning

Date: March 28, 2011



Enclosures:

   (1)        Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
              dated July 31, 2010
   (2)        Disbursement Letter of even date herewith, together with World Bank
              Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006




                                             2
                                                             MDTF-SS TF Grant No. TF099010

                                                                                          ANNEX



Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (“Standard Conditions?) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix to
this Agreement.


                                             Article II
                                         Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to increase agricultural
productivity of smallholder households by facilitating the adoption of improved technologies and
strengthening capacities of the GoSS, State and Local Governments as well as private sector to plan
and respond to identified needs in agriculture and forestry.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A. Support to Agricultural Services

    (1) Delivery of agricultural advisory services, including: (i) provision of advisory and
        information services to agricultural producers based on identified priority activities; (ii)
        provision of advisory and information services to select agribusiness to facilitate market
        linkages in accessible areas in Southern Sudan; (iii) implementation of specific
        demonstration development projects to promote innovation and introduce new technology in
        production of goods and services in the agriculture sectors (in such areas as seed
        multiplication, water management, organic farming, farm power, improved varieties,
        sustainable land management), through the provision of Sub-Grants to agricultural
        producers communities, or organizations working with such communities; (iv)
        strengthening of the capacity of MAF and MAARIs to perform oversight and regulatory
        functions.

    (2) Support to technology development and transfer, through: (i) carrying out of collaborative
        adaptive research at various research centers in the five agro-ecological zones in the
        Targeted States; (ii) carrying out of selective research to address high priority problems in
        crop, livestock, forestry and fisheries production; (iii) strengthening of research system
        through establishment of an agricultural research council; (iv) scaling up of agricultural
        outreach and technology dissemination.


                                                 3
Part B Institutional Development

    (1) Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of MAF to develop: (i) a policy
        framework for rural development and (ii) specific policies in select areas including,
        agricultural research and agricultural advisory services.

    (2) Carrying out of training programs to build the capacity of core staff of Project implementing
        entities at GoSS, State and Local Government levels as well as relevant private sector.

    (3) Renovation and improvement of physical infrastructure for research, training, administration
        at State and Local Government levels, including three agriculture inspection units at border
        posts, three community-based seed production units and two seed laboratories.

Part C Support to Project Implementation

        Carrying out of Project coordination and management at GoSS, State and Local Government
        levels, including technical and financial management, procurement, audits, and monitoring and
        evaluation, and provision of goods, technical assistance, Workshops and Training, services and
        Operating Costs required for the purpose.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants?, dated October 15, 2006, together with the modifications set forth in Section II B of the
Appendix to this Agreement (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?); and (c) this Article II.

2.03.      Institutional and Other Arrangements

        (a)     Project Operational Manual: (i) The Recipient shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual. (ii) Except as the World Bank shall otherwise
agree, no amendment or waiver of any provision of the Project Operational Manual shall be
made, without the prior written approval of the World Bank. In the event of any conflict between
the provisions of the Project Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall govern.

        (b)       Implementation Arrangements. The Recipient shall at all times during Project
implementation maintain: (i) a Project steering committee with attributions, composition and
resources acceptable to the World Bank, to be responsible for overall strategic and policy
oversight of the Project (“Project Steering Committee?); (ii) coordination committees at MAF,
State and Local Government levels with staffing, terms of reference and resources acceptable to
the World Bank, to be responsible for implementation, management and coordination of the
Project at their respective levels of government (“Internal Coordination Committees?); and (iii) a
Project management team with staff, terms of reference and resources acceptable to the World
Bank to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project (“Project Management
Team?).

           (c)     Safeguards.


                                                   4
        (i)     The Recipient shall:

                (A)     implement the Project in accordance with the ESAF and, where
                        applicable, the EMP and Pest Management Plan;

                (B)     in cases of any Subproject requiring the adoption of an EMP or Pest
                        Management Plan, ensure the preparation of such EMP or Pest
                        Management Plan, as the case may be, in accordance with the ESAF;
                        furnish such EMP or Pest Management Plan (as the case may be) to the
                        World Bank for review and approval; and thereafter adopt such EMP or
                        Pest Management Plan as shall have been approved by the World Bank,
                        prior to implementation of the Subproject;

        (ii)    Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
                Recipient shall regularly collect, compile and furnish to the World Bank not later
                than April 15 and October 15 in each year, reports in form and substance
                satisfactory to the World Bank on the status of compliance with the ESAF, EMPs
                and Pest Management Plans, if any, giving details of:

                (A)     measures taken in furtherance of such ESAF, EMPs and Pest
                        Management Plan, if any;

                (B)     conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the
                        smooth implementation of such ESAF, EMPs and Pest Management
                        Plan, if any; and

                (C)     remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such
                        conditions.

         (d)     Annual Work Plans. (i) No later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year the
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the World Bank a proposed annual work plan, consisting of
activities proposed for inclusion in the Project during the following Fiscal Year, together with a
proposed budget and financing plan for such activities. (ii) The Recipient shall adopt and carry
out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance with such work plan for such following
Fiscal Year as shall have been agreed with the World Bank (“Annual Work Plan?).

       (e)    Sub-Grants. The Recipient shall ensure that Sub-Grants shall be made under
Sub-Grant Agreements in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual.

       (f)      Sub-Grant Agreements. The Sub-Grant Agreements shall provide for rights
adequate to protect the interests of the World Bank and the Recipient including the right to:
                 (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the
       Sub-Grant or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Sub-Grant then
       withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the
       Sub-Grant Agreement;
                (ii)     require each Beneficiary to: (A) carry out its Micro-Project with due
       diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
       managerial, environmental and social standards and practices satisfactory to the World
       Bank, including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

                                               5
        applicable to recipients of Grant proceeds other than the Recipient and any environmental
        management plan or pest management plan required pursuant to the ESAF as such plan
        shall have been approved by the World Bank; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the
        resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods, works and services to be
        financed out of the Sub-Grant in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
        Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement; (D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to
        enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the World
        Bank, the progress of the Micro-Project and the achievement of its objectives; (E) (1)
        maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements in accordance
        with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a
        manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
        Micro-Project; and (2) at the World Bank’s or the Recipient’s request, have such
        financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank, in
        accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the World Bank,
        and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the World Bank;
        (F) enable the Recipient and the World Bank to inspect the Micro-Project, its operation
        and any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and
        the World Bank all such information as the Recipient or the World Bank shall reasonably
        request relating to the foregoing.

        (g)     Amendment to the Original Grant Agreement.

                (i) The description of the objective of the project at Section 2.01 of the annex to
        the Original Grant Agreement is amended to read as follows: “The objective of the
        Project is to increase agricultural productivity of smallholder households by facilitating
        the adoption of improved technologies and strengthening capacities of the GoSS, State
        and Local Governments as well as private sector to plan and respond to identified needs
        in agriculture and forestry?.

                (ii) The later date for purposes of Section 3.03 of the annex to the Original Grant
        Agreement shall be October 31, 2011. (ii) Except as specifically amended in accordance
        with the provisions sub-paragraph (i) of this Section 2.03(g) above, all terms and
        conditions of the Original Grant Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.

2.04. Donor Visibility and Visit. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donor’s support for
the Project.

(b) For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon the
World Bank’s request, take all measures required on its part to enable the representatives of the
Donor(s) to visit any part of the Member Country’s territory for purposes related to the Project.

2.05. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a)           The Recipient shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World
Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished
to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report.




                                                6
         (c)      The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
 provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
 to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. In order to assist the
 Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose
 qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the World Bank.

 2.06. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
 system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
 Conditions.

          (b)      The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
 are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one
 month after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance
 satisfactory to the World Bank.

          (c)     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.


 2.07.   Procurement

          (a)      General. All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
 financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
 set forth or referred to in:

                 (i)     Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
 Credits? published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010
 (“Procurement Guidelines?), in the case of goods and works;

                (ii)   Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
 Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised
 in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines?) in the case of consultants’ services;
 and

                (iii)    the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the
 procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in
 accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
 Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan?).

         (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
 Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
 particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines,
 or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

         (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works



                                                  7
               (i)    Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding.

               (ii)    The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding,
may be used for procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement
Plan (A) Limited International Bidding; (B) National Competitive Bidding; (C) Shopping; (D)
Direct Contracting; (E) Procurement from UN Agency; and (F) Community Participation
procedures which have been found acceptable to the World Bank and are elaborated in the
Procurement Plan.

        (d)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

                (i)     Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

                (ii)     The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’
services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) Quality-based
Selection; (B) Selection of Individual Consultants; (C) Least Cost Selection; (D) Selection based
on Consultants’ Qualifications; and (E) Single-source Selection.

         (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement Plan
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. All other
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.

                                        Article III
                                Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
(“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:




                                               8
                     Category                          Amount of the          Percentage of
                                                       Grant Allocated        Expenditures
                                                        (expressed in        to be Financed
                                                            USD)               (inclusive of
                                                                                  Taxes)
 (1) Goods, Workshops and Training, Operating                 6,000,000      100%
 Costs, works and consultants’ services for the
 Project (excluding Micro-Projects)

 (2) Goods, works and services required for Micro-            8,000,000      100%
 Projects

 TOTAL AMOUNT                                                 14,000,000



3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient.

3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is October 31, 2011.

Article IV
                           Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister at the time responsible for finance.

4.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

       Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
       Juba, The Sudan

4.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:                  Telex:                 Facsimile:

       INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or        1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)




                                               9
                                              APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

   1. “Annual Work Plan? means, for each Fiscal Year during Project implementation, the
      annual work plan and related budget (including an annual training plan) for such year
      which has been approved by the World Bank in accordance with Section 2.03(d) of the
      Annex to this Agreement.

   2. “Beneficiary? means an agricultural producer community, or organization working with
      such communities which meets the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Operational
      Manual to receive a Sub-Grant and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant is made or
      proposed to be made.

   3. “Environmental and Social Assessment Framework? and “ESAF? each means the
      Environmental and Social Assessment Framework dated October 2008, adopted by the
      Recipient giving details of the program of actions, measures and policies designed to
      maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse
      environmental and social impacts of the Project, or reduce such impacts to acceptable
      levels.

   4. “Environmental Management Plan? or “EMP? means an Environmental Management
      Plan, acceptable to the World Bank prepared in accordance with the ESAF and giving
      details of the specific actions, measures and policies designed to facilitate the
      achievement of the objectives of the ESAF, along with the procedural and institutional
      measures needed to implement such actions, measures and policies, as such EMP may be
      amended from time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank.

   5. “Fiscal Year? means the fiscal year of the Recipient which commences on January 1 and
      ends on December 31.

   6. “Internal Coordination Committee? means any of the committees referred to in
      Section 2.03(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Agreement.

   7. “Local Government? means local government entities established and operating under
      applicable laws of Southern Sudan, including counties and payams and any successor
      thereto.

   8. “MAF? means the Recipient’s Ministry responsible for agriculture and forestry and any
      successor thereto.

   9. “MAARIs? mean the ministries responsible for agriculture, animal resources and
      irrigation for the states of Eastern Equatoria, Central Equatoria, Jonglei, Unity and Upper
      Nile and any successors thereto.

   10. “Micro-Project? means a specific development project to be carried out under Part A(1)
       of the Project which, having met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational
       Manual, shall be eligible for financing using the proceeds of a Sub-Grant and agricultural
       producers own contributions.


                                               10
11. “Operating Costs? means the incremental expenditures incurred by the Recipient in the
    implementation of the Project, on account of office supplies, office rent, communication
    and insurance charges, maintenance of office equipment, vehicle operations and
    maintenance costs, utilities, travel and travel allowances, and salaries of locally
    contracted employees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service.

12. “Original Grant Agreement? means the grant agreement for Support to Agriculture and
    Forestry Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, acting as
    administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust
    Fund for Southern Sudan dated December 18, 2007, as amended to the date of this
    Agreement (TF Grant No. TF091282).

13. “Original Project? means the project described in the Original Grant Agreement.

14. "Pest Management Plan? means a plan acceptable to the World Bank and consistent
    with the ESAF, adopted for the purposes of the Project.

15. “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan dated April 21, 2010
    covering the initial 6-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same
    shall be updated from time to time, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or longer) of
    Project implementation.

16. “Project Operational Manual? means the manual, dated October 2008, adopted by the
    Recipient and setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria,
    including administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and
    procedures, as shall be required for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to
    time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any
    schedules to the Project Operational Manual.

17. “Project Management Team? means the entity referred to in Section 2.03(a)iii of the
    Annex to this Agreement.

18. “Project Steering Committee? means the Project steering committee referred to in
    Section 2.03(b)i of the Annex to this Agreement.

19. “State Governments? means the governments of Targeted States established and operating
    pursuant to the Interim Constitution of Southern Sudan of 2005.

20. “Sub-Grant? means a grant made or proposed to be made to an eligible agricultural
    producer community, or organization working with the beneficiary communities, out of
    the proceeds of the Grant, for purposes of carrying out a Micro-Project under the Project;
    and the term “Sub-Grants? means, collectively, all said grants.

21. “Sub-Grant Agreement? means an agreement between the Recipient and a Beneficiary
    providing for a Sub-Grant.

22. “Targeted States? means the states of Eastern Equatoria, Central Equatoria, Jonglei,
    Unity and Upper Nile in Southern Sudan and any successors thereto.


                                            11
     23. “Workshops and Training? means the reasonable costs for the following expenditures,
         based on an Annual Work Plan, incurred in providing training or workshops: travel by
         participants and presenters to the training or workshop site, per diem allowances of such
         persons during the training or workshop, honoraria for the presenters, rental of facilities,
         materials, supplies and translation and interpretation services.


Section II. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.       Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as
         follows:

         “…(b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
         by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or
         entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the
         individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination
         by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent,
         corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
         financing made by such financier.?

2.       Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

         “… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures
         (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity,
         including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible
         publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
         financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise,
         for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or
         implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the
         Bank, if at any time the Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity
         has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in
         connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
         entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
         declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such
         financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project
         financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such
         financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
         coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing
         made by such financier.?

Footnotes:

         “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract
         upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions policies and
         procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in
         connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier
         with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
         by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or


                                                   12
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such
financier.?

“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are
not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of
making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining
the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how
cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and
other stakeholders.?




                                          13
