                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR 2194



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-91282, TF-93011)



                                           ON

                                        GRANTS

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30.2 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                       GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN

                                         FOR A

     SUPPORT TO AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                      May 31 , 2013




Agriculture Rural Development and Irrigation Unit
Sustainable Development Department
AFCE4
Africa Region




                                            i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective January 2013)

                           Currency Unit = SSP
                             US$ 1.00 = 3.20

                              FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1- December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAD       County Agriculture Department
CBOs      Community Based Organizations
CFs       Community Facilitators
CPA       Comprehensive Peace Agreement
DG        Director General
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU        European Union
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FGs       Farming Groups
FPP       Final Project Paper
GOSS      Government of Southern Sudan
ICC       Internal Coordination Committee
ICRISAT   International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IMPSC     Inter- Ministerial Project Steering Committee
JAM       Joint Assessment Mission
LAs       Local Administrations
LGs       Local Governments
LLO       Local Level Organization
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MAARIs    State Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MAFCRD    Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Cooperatives and Rural Development
MARF      Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries
MDTF-SS   Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan
MOFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPs       Micro-Projects
NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
NPA       Norwegian People Aid
SAFDP     Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project
SPLM      Sudan People’s Liberation Movement
TD        Technical Directorate
UN        United Nations
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PFMU      Project Financial Management Unit




                                     i
Vice President:        Makhtar Diop
Country Director:      Bella Bird
Country Manager:       Laura Kullenberg
Sector Director:       Jamal Saghir
Sector Manager:        Tijan Sallah
Project Team Leader:   Berhane Manna/Abel Lufafa
ICR Team Leader:       Abel Lufafa




                       ii
                                 COUNTRY: REPUBLIC OF SOUTH SUDAN

 Project Name: SUPPORT TO AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
                               PROJECT

                                                                P104786



                                                               Contents
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information................................................................................................................. iv
B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................. iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................................... v
E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. v
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................... viii
H. Restructuring ..................................................................................................................... viii
I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................ ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome........................................................ 5
3. Assessment of Outcome ................................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome ............................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................ 15
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................. 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Project Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................. 27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...................................................................................... 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.............................................................. 29
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................... 30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 35
Annex 9. Project preparation and Implementation Environment ............................................ 36
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................... 39




                                                                     iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                    SD - Support to
                                                                    Agriculture      and
Country:               South Sudan            Project Name:
                                                                    Forestry Development
                                                                    Project (ERL)
Project ID:            P104786                L/C/TF Numbers:       TF-91282, TF-93011
ICR Date:              05/08/2013             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    Government of
Lending Instrument:    ERL                    Grantee:              Southern Sudan
                                                                    (GOSS)
Original Total
                       USD 23.90M              Disbursed Amount:    USD 30.10M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 30.17M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Cooperatives and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process            Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/22/2007     Effectiveness:        03/20/2008
                                                                            05/25/2010
                                                                            03/23/2011
Appraisal:            05/23/2007     Restructuring(s):
                                                                            06/21/2011
                                                                            06/27/2012
Approval:             11/06/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              10/31/2011       12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
                     Moderately                              Moderately
Quality at Entry:                        Government:
                     Unsatisfactory                          Satisfactory
Quality of           Moderately          Implementing        Moderately
Supervision:         Satisfactory        Agency/Agencies:    Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank         Moderately          Overall Borrower    Moderately
Performance:         Unsatisfactory      Performance:        Unsatisfactory

                                             iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                  Rating
      Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem
                                          Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                                 None
                                          (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                   Quality of
                         No                                  None
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                         30                 30
Central government administration                           50                 50
Forestry                                                    20                 20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural policies and institutions                               67                50
Rural services and infrastructure                             33                50

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                     Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:       Bella Deborah Mary Bird          Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:         Tijan M. Sallah                  Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:    Berhane Manna                    Wahida Huq
ICR Team Leader:        Abel Lufafa
ICR Primary Author:     Pietros Kidane


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Increase productivity of targeted agriculture and forestry producers by: (i) facilitating
adoption of improved technologies in agriculture and forestry, and (ii) by strengthening
capacities of the Central and State Governments and the private sector to plan and deliver
services in agriculture and forestry.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To increase the productivity and production of participating smallholder farmers in
agriculture and forestry.



                                             v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
     Indicator        Baseline Value                         Revised Target
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1:      Increase in areas under staples by participating farmers (percent)
Value
quantitative or 100                            n/a                120              127.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              10/30/2010                           06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %         The baseline of 100 percent represents 1 feddan 1 per participating farmer
achievement)
Indicator 2: Yields of staple foods by participating farmers (percent increase)
                                                          Sorghum- 30% Sorghum-
                                                          (0.26t/fed)       138%(0.48 t/fed)
Value           Sorghum 0.2t/fed
                                                          Maize-30%         Maize-120%
quantitative or Maize 0.25t/fed                n/a
                                                           (0.33t/fed)      (0.55 t/fed)
Qualitative)    G.nuts 0.35t/fed
                                                          G.nuts- 20%       G.nuts-73%
                                                          (0.42t/fed)       (0.61 t/fed)
Date achieved                              10/30/2010        10/30/2010         06/30/2012
Comments
                Percent of execution of planned budgets according to the annual plans of
Indicator 3:
                MAF and MAARIs implemented
Value
quantitative or            0                  82.00              69.00              94.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved         06/25/2008           10/30/2010        04/30/2012         06/30/2012
Comments
Indicator 4: Numbers of tree seedlings raised, planted and/or sold by participating farmers
Value
quantitative or            0                116324.00         127567.00            138066
Qualitative)
Date achieved         03/03/2008           10/30/2010        02/29/2012         06/30/2012
Comments
Indicator 5: Number or project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or            0                   n/a             88900.00          97294.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved         03/03/2008           10/30/2010        06/29/2012         06/30/2012
Comments        48 percent of beneficiaries were women compared to a revised target of 42
                percent



1
    Fed stands for feddan and it is the equivalent of 1.038 acres (0.42 hectare)


                                                 vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                        Original Target Formally            Actual Value
                                         Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval           Target        Completion or
                                          documents)          Values        Target Years
                Number of Counties in which agricultural and forestry services are
Indicator 1:
                operational
Value
(quantitative               0                       44               27                 27
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          06/27/2008             06/27/2008        06/30/2010        12/30/2012
Comments
                Original target was 44 counties in 5 states but was scaled down in light of
(incl. %
                limited resources
achievement)
Indicator 2: Number of feddans cultivated with crops and trees by project participants
Value
(quantitative               0                      n/a             26510             34512
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          10/30/2010             10/30/2010                          12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of key sector policies, legislation, MIS and M&E formulated and/or
Indicator 3:
                in place
Value
(quantitative               0                        5                5                  4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          08/30/2008             10/30/2010                          12/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4: Number of public staff trained in specialized areas
Value
(quantitative               0                      120              165                645
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          10/30/2010             10/30/2010                          12/31/2012
Comments
                Key skills for technical public servants included training in subject matter
(incl. %
                (procurement, finance, etc.); for support staff include refresher courses, etc.
achievement)
Indicator 5: Number of physical facilities constructed and/or refurbished
Value
(quantitative               0                       45              n/a                15
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          10/30/2010             10/30/2010                          12/31/2012
Comments        This includes offices for the state ministries of agriculture, border inspection
(incl. %        post for seeds, community-based seed stores and research facilities. Total
achievement) construction initially planned has been scaled down due to reduced funding


                                               vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                         IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    05/25/2008                                                                 0.00
  2    12/24/2008        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   2.49
  3    06/28/2009    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   2.49
  4    12/22/2009    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            6.29
  5    06/07/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   8.82
  6    03/31/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           15.28
  7    09/20/2011        Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory           20.27
  8    06/04/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           27.04
  9    10/25/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           30.10

H. Restructuring

                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in USD
                          DO     IP
                                        millions
 05/25/2010       N       MS    MS          8.82    Closing date extension
                                                    Additional Financing and
 03/23/2011                S      S        15.28
                                                    change of indicators
 06/21/2011       N       MS    MS         16.17    Closing date extension
                                                    Closing date extension and
 06/27/2012       N       MS    MS         27.04
                                                    revision of indicator targets

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original
approving body) enter ratings below:
                                                         Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                  Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                            Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                           viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. The protracted civil war between the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement (SPLM) ended in January 2005 with the signing of the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement (CPA). Following the adoption of the CPA, the Government of Southern
Sudan (GOSS) was established to take full responsibility for the overall development of the
then semi-autonomous region.
2. The civil war left behind disastrous humanitarian conditions, including widespread
displacement of the population, high incidence of poverty (poverty level was 90 percent),
food-insecurity and malnutrition. Of the estimated population of 8.2 million during the
cessation of hostilities, about four million were internally displaced and two million had fled
their country. The civil conflict had disrupted the already limited social and administrative
infrastructure, and the key development indicators for the region were among the worst in the
world.
3. At appraisal, the agricultural sector was in dire situation. Although data was not readily
available, anecdotal evidence showed that: large tracts of land were uncultivated as the
farmers were displaced by the war, agricultural production was inadequate to meet the
demand for food, and food imports mainly served markets close to urban centers where there
was some purchasing power. Farmers’ access to basic agricultural advisory services was
limited, and their productivity was dismal (e.g. average cereal yields stood at less than 0.25
t/feddan), as they had no access to and information on improved production practices and
inputs. Yet, the sector remained the mainstay of the economy and source of livelihood for
more than 85% of the population.
4. Cognizant of the role that the agricultural sector could play in the rapid recovery of
people’s livelihoods, the need to direct development efforts towards this sector was accorded
a high priority. The problems that needed to be addressed as a matter of urgency were related
to the inadequate access to and use of production technologies and the weak support
institutions. Before the CPA, most of the provision of the public sector-mandated services
was carried out by Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and UN agencies. Therefore,
one of the immediate tasks of GOSS was to shift this responsibility back to the government.
To this end, the Government aimed at preparing a vigorous program of strengthening its
institutions with the assistance of the international community.
5. The framework for recovery and development in South Sudan was articulated by the
Joint Assessment Mission (JAM), which was a collaborative effort of the World Bank,
United Nations, Government of Sudan and SPLM. The development strategy outlined in the
JAM report was, inter alia, to promote rural development through a big push on basic
infrastructure, support internal and external trade linkages and promote agricultural
productivity. The report indicated that transformation of the agricultural sector and promoting
private sector development was central to the challenge of peace and development in South
Sudan. The need to help the new government to accelerate the recovery of livelihoods that
depended on agriculture and forestry was the main rationale for the involvement of the Bank
in the formulation and implementation of the Support to Agriculture and Forestry
Development Project (SAFDP). The project was formulated within the framework of the
Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (MDTF-SS), and was meant to contribute to the
principal objectives of the MDTF-SS, which were supporting GOSS in State and peace
building, as well as fostering donor and GOSS partnerships.

                                              1
6. The project was formulated during a period that was characterized by a number of
anomalous issues and circumstances. These included: a) the sudden reengagement of the
Bank with Sudan, after a decade of absence, but without a defined assistance strategy; b) the
lack of a bare minimum of resources necessary to run the newly formed Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), which was designated as the project implementing agency;
c) the absence of key sectoral foundations, such as policies, strategies and regulations, as well
as other essential information on which to base project formulation; d) the absence of an
agricultural advisory service system that could be used as a vehicle for implementing key
components of the project; and e) the difficulty in accessing many would-be project areas due
to insecurity, barring the collection of any information on these areas. Given such difficulties,
technical considerations by the preparation Team favored taking the necessary time to gather
relevant information and conduct meaningful analysis before finalizing project preparation.
On the other hand, however, the stance of donors to the MDTF-SS and GOSS was for a quick
delivery of services, in order to expeditiously deliver on the objectives of State and peace
building in the country. In responding to the politically imposed timelines, the project was
prepared in haste, in a period of about six months, inclusive of works related to
conceptualization, preparation and appraisal.

7. Data limitations and lack of analytical studies during preparation meant, for example that
a sound M&E and details of the proposed research program could not be finalized at
appraisal. For the same reason, no project impact analysis could be done. In addition, during
preparation, there was uncertainty in project financing, because some pledges made by
donors had not been paid in to the MDTF-SS. In pursuit of an early and timely project start,
an idea which entailed funding of the project through annual tranches that would be approved
at the beginning of each year by the Oversight Committee (OC) was conceived. Because of
this uncertainty surrounding project financing, a phased approach to project implementation
was adopted. In fact, the Grant Agreement deals only with the first phase, for which money
had been secured.


1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Performance
Indicators

8.    As presented in the Grant Agreement, the objective of the project was to increase
productivity of targeted agriculture and forestry producers by: (i) facilitating adoption of
improved technologies in agriculture and forestry, and (ii) strengthening capacities of the
GOSS, State and Local Governments as well as the private sector to plan and deliver services
in agriculture and forestry. Key performance indicators comprised:
      •   Increase in productivity and marketed output achieved by members
          participating in the project
      •   Increase in labor productivity (per hectare production /labor employed)
      •   Increase in food grain production (an indicator that would be triggered in phase 2)
      •   Increase in proportion of farmers diversifying to high value crops.

1.3        Revised Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators

9.    In March 2011, when the project was restructured for additional financing, the wording
(and not essence) of the PDO was rephrased. The rephrasing sought to do away with parts of
the original PDO formulation that spelt out the mechanisms (i.e. “by: (i) facilitating adoption

                                                 2
of improved technologies in agriculture and forestry, and (ii) strengthening capacities of the
GOSS, State and Local Governments as well as the private sector to plan and deliver services
in agriculture and forestry?) through which the objective would be achieved. Because the
project intent, components and activities were still the same, the attendant grant agreement
did not indicate changes to the PDO. The key performance indicators were however revised
to resolve the tautological formulation of the original indicators on productivity and some
new indicators were also introduced at this restructuring. This was in line with the appraisal
document that proposed a revision of and/or addition of indicators in the results framework as
capacities in M&E improved. The reworded PDO was “to increase productivity and
production of participating smallholder farmers in agriculture and forestry?. The revised key
performance indicators were:
      •   Yields of staple foods by participating farmers
      •   Percent increase in areas under staples by participating farmers
      •   Numbers of tree seedlings raised, planted and/or sold by participating farmers
      •   Percent of execution of planned budgets according to the annual plans of
          (MAFCRD) and MAARIs implemented
      •   Number of project beneficiaries and what percent are women.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries
10. As designed, the project was to cover 44 counties in five States: Upper Nile, Unity,
Jonglei, East and Central Equatoria. The main project beneficiaries were selected farmer
groups, as well as community organizations and local associations with interest in
agricultural and forestry production and marketing. Under the capacity building activities, the
agricultural and forestry institutions of Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the
five States, including the counties, received a significant portion of project resources to
improve their efficiency.


1.5       Original Components

11. SAFDP was to be implemented in two phases: the first phase 2 of two years would focus
on rapid technology dissemination to beneficiaries; while the second phase, of three years,
would mainly support institutional development. The financing plan was for the MDTF-SS to
contribute US$9.8 million to the first phase while the government would contribute US$8.0
to this phase. In the second phase, the MDTF-SS would contribute US$15.7 million and the
government would contribute US$9.0 million for a total project cost of US$42.9 million. The
project had two components:

Component A. Establishment of Support Services (base cost: US$25.10 million).

12. This component comprised three sub-components. The first sub-component sought to
establish agricultural support services that could contribute to increased agricultural
productivity and production. This would be achieved by empowering farmers through group-
based advisory services and financing through a matching grants scheme; and by selecting

2
 The phased approach was abandoned at a later stage after implementation delays related to the participation of the FAO and ICRISAT and
the reduction in project funding.



                                                                   3
and training of public and private sector extension providers. Activities under this sub-
component would be facilitated by a Lead NGO (LNGO) and Local Level Organizations
(LLO).
13. The second sub-component consisted of: the establishment of forestry support services
and the promotion of community forestry management, including community-based
investment projects; training of public and private sector service providers; and formulation
of a forestry sector strategic management framework. The third sub-component was
technology development and transfer, and comprised: the strengthening of applied research in
crops, agro-forestry and livestock with a focus on early impact and on providing technologies
for improved food security; and support to agricultural and forestry research system through
the development of Research Management Framework (RMF).

Component B: Institutional Development (base cost: US$17.80 million).

14. This component would strengthen core Central and State Government planning and
development capacities in agriculture and forestry. Key interventions would include:
enhancing capacity of the public sector, carrying out strategic studies and development of
policy where required. At the central level, support would be provided to policy analysis and
formulation, defining MAF’s organization and management procedures and the development
of an institutional framework for rural development. A Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E)
System and a Management Information System would be designed and established within the
MAF. The project proposed to refurbish/construct the necessary infrastructure for MAF in
Juba, the MAARIs in the five States and the County Agriculture Directorates (CADs) in all the
Counties in the five States; improve mobility; provide office equipment and material; and
ensure connectivity at all levels. In order to improve training and research infrastructure, the
refurbishment of six Training Centers and another three new Training Centers and of six
Research Stations would be completed. Technical and management training would also be
provided to the staff of MAF and the States.


1.6    Revised Components

15. Following the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), a third component,
i.e. Support to Project Implementation was introduced. Under this new component, support
would be provided to MAF to strengthen project coordination and implementation. During
such review, it was also decided to merge the agricultural and forestry support services,
which were hitherto dealt with separately in line with the original project. The merger was
mainly due to limited demand for forestry support services by beneficiaries, as the latter
preferred to produce food crops for their immediate needs, rather than planting trees for long-
term benefit.


1.7     Other Significant Changes

The first significant change was a revision of the financing plan. Because of reduced
revenues following the plummeting of oil prices in 2009, the Bank assented to the GOSS
request to increase MDTF-SS financing to the first phase from US$9.8 million to US$16.2



                                               4
million 3 . The GOSS would then reduce its contribution to the first phase from US$ 8.0
million to US$ 1.8 million. In December 2009, shortly after the financing plan was revised,
donors to the MDTF-SS decided to channel other resources that were initially pledged to the
MDTF-SS through other development agencies that were operating in South Sudan. This,
according to donors, was because the MDTF-SS was not disbursing as fast as had been
envisaged. At this time, it was decided that there would be no second of the project. In March
2011, however, the Netherlands government availed resources to the MDTF-SS and
earmarked them for the agriculture sector (see Annex 9 on context during implementation),
and the project was restructured for additional financing. During such restructuring, new easy
to measure indicators were introduced, additional activities to support the seed sector were
introduced and the PDO was reworded for clarity without altering its essence 4. Other changes
included: i) replacement of ICRISAT (initially envisaged to implement the research program)
with a team of national research scientists; ii) the down-scaling of the planned role of FAO in
project implementation; iii) reduction of project area from 44 to 27 counties; iv)
strengthening of MAF in project management by establishing a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU); v) a couple of closing date extensions to enable completion of project activities (see
data sheet and Annex 9); and vi) revision to targets for some indicators when more reliable
data became available (see table below).

Table 1. Revisions to key outcome targets

     Indicator name                              Original end of                       Revised end of project
                                                 project target                        target
                                           PDO Level
     Direct project beneficiaries                140000                                88900
     Numbers of tree seedlings raised, planted 148891                                  127567
     and/or sold by participating farmers
     Percent increase in areas under staples by -                                      120
     participating farmers
                                       Intermediate level
     Number of feddans cultivated with crops 26510                                     24480
     and trees by project participants


2.           Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

2.1          Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     During the formulation of SAFDP, there were some important donor-supported
development programs under implementation in the agricultural sector, mainly of a
recovery/rehabilitation nature, along with modest capacity building activities. These
programs did not cover all the States and were fragmented - a situation that elicited the need
to create capacity to coordinate the different initiatives at the Centre and State levels. The
SAFDP aimed at addressing these issues. Another important principle underlying project
design was the need to ensure greater participation of beneficiaries, in such a way that
farming communities and natural resource users are directly involved in the development

3
    The revision in financing plan was accomplished through a simple amendment to the Grant Agreement with no restructuring paper.
4
    The formulation of the PDO in the attendant Grant Agreement was never changed.

                                                                     5
process. Since there was little Government and local capacity that could facilitate the active
participation of the farming and rural communities, the project proposed to use NGOs as
service providers to organize and empower project beneficiaries. These features were
important design considerations by the project formulation team, which also comprised
professionals from the Government, who ensured the inclusion of national views in the
design process.
17.     Project design proposed to mainstream project activities into the normal operations of
the MAF Technical Directorates (TDs), and assigned the responsibility for implementing the
project to the MAF Internal Coordination Committee (ICC), comprising representation of all
the concerned TDs. Policy guidance was to be vested within an Inter-Ministerial Project
Steering Committee (IMPSC). The ICC would delegate one of the Director Generals (DG) of
the TD to act as Project Operational Coordinator (POC) 5 for day-to-day coordination. Given
the weak implementation capacity within MAF, it was decided to make up for this deficiency
through the provision of strong technical assistance (TA) input to be managed by FAO.
18.     The involvement of TA in support of project management, under the supervision of
the TDs, was a reasonable idea, but, in retrospect, it can be said that project design failed to
anticipate GOSS’s aversion to heavy TA input. In fact, one of the major difficulties that
slowed project start-up was the delay in finalizing contracts with FAO and ICRISAT, which
later resulted in the cancellation of the proposed collaboration with ICRISAT and the drastic
reduction of input from FAO. A closer examination of these issues during project formulation
may have steered project design towards more acceptable TA arrangements.
19.     Another shortcoming in project design was the ambitious nature of project coverage,
which appeared to have downplayed the difficulties that could emerge in organizing and
implementing the project, particularly with regard to the advisory services. The vastness of
the project area (five states and forty-four counties), characterized by poor accessibility,
sparse population, insecurity in some parts, would have pointed towards a more prudent and
focused approach. Likewise, the limited implementation capacity of the LGs and the NGOs,
as well as the acute shortage of skilled manpower in these areas, should have dictated against
adopting an ambitious program. The large area coverage by the project was essentially driven
by GOSS, and was meant to demonstrate the equitable distribution of peace dividends to the
people.
20.    There was also insufficient information on weather, and physical conditions, as well
as on social dynamics of the proposed areas, and this prevented the assessment of the
economic and financial impact of the proposals. Furthermore, there were little details on the
management of the matching grant, particularly on the need to allocate project funds to the
genuinely interested beneficiaries. To attain such an objective, a mechanism that induces
beneficiaries to have a stake in the investment (e.g. through cash or in-kind contribution)
would have been necessary. However, this was not done, and the project proceeded with
granting funds to cover the total production costs of Farmer Groups (FGs). This approach
does not help to distinguish between genuinely interested participants and others who were
simply after free money, and this may have implications on the sustainability of the project.




5
 POC was to look after all donor financed projects, including SAFDP, and a Focal Person (FP) another DG, was appointed to coordinate
SAFDP. The POC wanted to have the role for day-to-day coordination as was the FP, and this led to a confusion of roles until the
establishment of the PIU.

                                                                 6
2.2        Implementation

21. Project startup was slow due to institutional capacity weaknesses and an impasse 6 in
contracting with FAO and ICRISAT. The project became effective on June 2, 2008 7 - about
seven months after the approval of the Grant. The Bank waived one condition of
effectiveness, which was the signing of contracts with FAO and ICRISAT; and MAF fulfilled
the other two conditions, i.e. the opening of Project Account and the signing of a contract
with an NGO that would spearhead the establishment of the agricultural and forestry support
services. GOSS had already established the IMPSC, the ICC and appointed the POC for the
day-to-day coordination of project implementation.
22. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 2009 (phase one), while
negotiations with FAO and ICRISAT had not yet been concluded. The resolution of these
issues was made only towards the end of 2008/early 2009, by reducing the TA under FAO to
two specialists (Technical Advisor and M&E specialist) and by abandoning the proposed
agreement with ICRISAT in favor of direct recruitment of national research scientists by
MAF. With these changes, the need for revisiting the implementation arrangements became
clear, and GOSS established a stronger PIU within MAF. The PIU was headed by a DG, who
was assisted by TA personnel: Chief Technical Advisor and specialists in Finance,
Procurement and Safeguards. A project Support Officer and a Project Assistant were also
seconded from MAF to the PIU. With the formation of the PIU, implementation of the
project was accelerated, as a result of the TA input, but also due to the clarity of job
description of the different Government units. After the establishment of the PIU, support to
the technical units of the States, the monitoring of project activities and the performance in
financial management and procurement improved markedly.
23. Implementation of the agricultural and forestry support services by the LNGO started
immediately after the project was declared effective. This was possible because the LNGO
was familiar with most of the project States, and conversant with group formation activities
in the rural areas. Therefore, the group-based advisory services, as well as the innovative
production methods through micro and special projects commenced immediately. However,
the LNGO was uncertain with regard to the optimum level of the FG’s membership, which
varied widely from about 20 to 40, as well as with the frequency of financing the FGs.
24. After the Mid-Term review, it was decided that FG membership be kept at between 10
and 20 but the frequency of financing of the FGs remained ambiguous, and many FGs were
funded for two to three seasons consecutively. Implementation of this component was
affected by delays in the release of funds from MAF, often denying the LNGO the necessary
lead-time for disbursing the grant before the start of the cropping season. In addition, this
component did not benefit from ideal technical input from agricultural research, because of
the failure in putting together a suitable adaptive research program.
25. Within the framework of capacity building, the project provided a wide range of inputs.
In terms of support to physical infrastructure, resources were provided for the construction of
office space within MAF and the five States. Construction and rehabilitation of three border
seed inspection posts, two research stations and one training center were undertaken. The

6
  Project design and Grant Agreement assigned FAO and ICRISAT prominent roles in project implementation, in the areas of project
management and research, respectively. This was mainly in acknowledgement of their country experience and presence, as they continued to
operate in South Sudan even during the war.
7
  When it was declared effective, the project closing date was given as December 31, 2009, just 18 months after effectiveness, which was
too short. The reason for such a short implementation period had to do with the life of the MDTF-SS, which was the source of funding of the
project. The project closing date was extended three times: to March 31, 2011 (due to slow progress of works); to June 30, 2012 (when
Additional Financing from MDTF was obtained); and to December 31, 2012, (to complete the civil works which was delayed mainly by the
prolonged wet season). The project was completed in four and a half years, six months earlier than what has been envisaged at appraisal.

                                                                    7
forestry program obtained two sawmills and three loading trucks in support of training
activities in the States. Office and laboratory equipment were provided by the project, and
mobility has been improved through the provision of thirty four-wheel vehicles and thirty-
four motorcycles, which included two vehicles per State and one motorcycle per county. The
project has established three seed stores equipped with mobile seed processing plants.
Furthermore, some 50 farmers were trained in seed production and quality control, and a
central seed processing center was established in Palotaka. An important training program
was also designed and executed by the project. About 645 staff (both from MAF headquarters
and the States) were trained in different technical fields within the country and abroad. An
additional 589 staff from local administrations and organizations have obtained training
mostly related to advisory services.
26.     Project implementation was shrouded in part by misunderstanding between the Bank
and GOSS staff. At the outset, in line with the MDTF-SS objective to build core public sector
capacity to deliver basic services, project activities were mainstreamed into the MAF
operations. This however triggered a number of undesired actions. The staff of MAF
perceived the project to be a vehicle for financing the work plans of the TDs regardless of
whether they were part of the project or not. The project’s M&E activities were the first to be
beset by this perception, as the Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP), which was
responsible for the project M&E, decided to monitor the project in the context of a sector-
wide M&E system, instead of addressing the specific needs of the project. Resistance by
Bank staff to this elastic interpretation of use of project resources was resented by some MAF
senior staff, creating unnecessary tension which only abated towards the end of the project
when efforts by Bank staff to educate senior MAF staff on the project concept bore fruit.
27.    A general ambivalence towards TA by the MAF and its staff prevailed throughout
project implementation, partly due to the disparity between government salaries and
consultants’ fees, as well as GOSS’s desire to manage its own development program.
Because of this, MAF delayed the recruitment of a Safeguards Specialist, contrary to what
had been planned at appraisal, and terminated the Specialist’s contract after one year. This
aversion towards TA also meant that the M&E system would not be finalized, as no
replacement was sought for the FAO provided M&E Specialist.
28.     There was also profound uncertainty surrounding the project closing date as this was a
function of both the availability of resources (which was itself unpredictable, see section 1.7
above) and the closing date of parent MTDF-SS (which was also unpredictable and was
extended three times). In particular, the uncertainty regarding the closing date of MDTF-SS
led to ambiguity in planning project activities, particularly with regard to the NGO, as its
contract had to be planned in a piecemeal approach in order to harmonize the contract with
the closing date of the MDTF SS, beyond which funds would not be available for use by the
NGO.
29. A significant factor that had a strong bearing on project implementation was the large
size of the project area, with many logistical and other difficulties (Section 2.1). In spite of
that, however, only one NGO was designated to execute the entire program all over the five
States, which was a daunting task.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

30. M&E Design: The FPP provided general guidelines for designing the M&E system for
the project, advocating for a straightforward and workable method that uses easily
measurable monitoring indicators. It also outlined the results framework and monitoring

                                               8
indicators. Although the project was supposed to design a final M&E system based on the
principles indicated in the FPP, this was not done. As a result, a coherent M&E plan was not
prepared, and the proposed M&E Framework that emerged was of a generic nature being
developed from an agricultural sector-wide survey (Annex 9). Therefore, in the absence of a
clear plan, a piecemeal approach became the actual modus operandi of the project as far as
M&E was concerned.
31. M&E Implementation: During appraisal, it was decided that the DPP would be
responsible for M&E and for reporting on the project. It was expected to develop simple and
measurable monitoring indicators together with the other Directorates of the MAF, and with
the assistance of the project’s M&E Specialist. DPP did not establish a separate M&E system
as required by the project, mainly due to its conviction that the project could be monitored
within the framework of the agricultural sector (Para 26). Hence, the baseline indicators to be
used for monitoring purposes were derived from a sector-wide base line survey, instead of
identifying specific indicators that were relevant to the project.
32. The M&E of the project was inadequately supported under the project, because the
consultant was recruited almost two years after project effectiveness, left after about one
year, and was not replaced by a dedicated person to perform his task. Given this situation, the
PIU, with the help of the Bank staff developed a system of data collection based on the
requirements of the results framework, and advised the LNGO to collect the data needed to
report on results. The LNGO had established its own baseline parameters and a reporting
system that meets the requirements of its parent organization. The project assisted DPP to
train at least 1 staff from each county of the 10 states in basic and participatory M&E
principles and practices to take lead in data collection, but this came late towards end of the
project.
33. M&E Utilization: M&E was weak, and this has constrained proper reporting on project
progress. The LNGO was not properly guided by DOPP; hence most of the information
collected was not sufficient to monitor the main project activities. The LNGO, which was the
executing agency that worked closely with farmers, focused mainly on monitoring project
inputs. Some crop yields and area cultivated were also gathered by the LNGO, but were not
systematically sorted, analyzed or compiled in a usable manner. Little information was
gathered on farm management, particularly as relates to crop production costs, prices, post-
harvest losses, transport costs etc. Therefore, the information needed for assessing project’s
impact, vis-à-vis, economic, financial, social and environmental, as well as for determining
project’s sustainability, were not available.
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34. Environmental Safeguards: GOSS did not come up with an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF), although, according to the Grant Agreement, this was
supposed to have been prepared six months after project effectiveness. In the absence of the
ESMF, the project endeavored to come up with some mitigation measures for social and
environmental safeguards that were prepared by the Safeguard Specialist, recruited in the last
year of the project, and terminated after one year. The Bank requested MAF for the
replacement of the Safeguard Specialist, but this was not done. Apart from threatening to
suspend the project, which was not acceptable to the MDTF-SS donors, the Bank staff did
what was possible to having a Safeguard Specialist recruited and the related issues resolved.
Thus at project completion, the required pest management plan was not finalized but
fortunately, the use of pesticides by participating farmers was negligible. Overall, the
environmental and social safeguards were not executed as envisaged under the project.

                                              9
35. Financial Management: As an MDTF-SS funded project, the financial administration of
SAFDP was vested in the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) of the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MOFEP). The overall financial management proceeded
without much difficulty, following the recruitment of the Financial Specialist for the PIU.
However some problems vis-à-vis the TDs remained. These included the TDs perception that
they can use the money allocated to their Directorates as they please, and the slow utilization
of the resources available to them. The negative impact of these shortcomings were mitigated
by the continuous explanation by the PIU on the need to spend project money for the purpose
it was earmarked, and reminding them about the need for timely planning and utilization of
the resources allocated to them. Financial management of the matching grant by the LNGO
faced some problems during the initial two years of the project, because of difficulties in
obtaining acceptable receipts from the FGs, resulting in delayed processing of the Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs). The issue was resolved after the LNGO established a proper
payment system.
36. Procurement: The procurement of goods and services was initially carried out from the
center by the MOFEP, which was in turn supported by Procurement Agents. However, this
did not work as expected, because of weaknesses on the part of the procurement agent.
Therefore, project procurement was later moved to MAF after the recruitment of a specialist
within the PIU. The new arrangement was successful in dealing with the remaining
procurement needs of the project, as well as in transferring knowledge to the staff. The only
problem which remained throughout project implementation was the poor specification of
goods and services by the TDs, which sometimes resulted in the procurement of goods that
were at variance with requirements.
37. Legal Covenants: GOSS complied with most of the covenants. However, it failed to
comply with the covenant related to the preparation of an ESMF for the project. Completion
of an agreement with ICRISAT also did not materialize due to difference in opinion that
emerged between GOSS and ICRISAT on the nature of their collaboration.
2.5    Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

38. Agricultural development is the engine that will enable South Sudan to diversify its
economy away from oil dependence and to reduce poverty and food insecurity. The South
Sudan Development Plan (2011-13) identifies developing the country’s agricultural and
livestock potential as the most feasible way to enable broad-based economic growth and food
security in the country. The need to realize and exploit the high agricultural potential in South
Sudan has been made even more urgent in the backdrop of the oil pipeline closure where the
government lost a significant part of its revenue. Recently, GOSS has come up with a high
priority program known as the National Effort for Agricultural Transformation (NEAT),
which aims at achieving food security within a short period of time. These considerations
permit the postulation that agriculture will receive an important share of GOSS’s
development budget for the foreseeable future. Should this materialize, naturally part of the
investment will be directed to support and scale-up the achievements made by SAFDP. In
particular, the advisory services introduced by the project will be consolidated, as MAF is
keen to strengthen agricultural extension services in the country.
3.     Assessment of Outcome

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
39.    The project objectives are still relevant to the current situation as they were during
project preparation. Supporting the agricultural and forestry activities by facilitating the

                                               10
introduction of improved technologies and strengthening the functional capacities of the
MAF and the States are important Government goals even now. Having realized that limited
use of appropriate cultural practices was the main cause of low productivity in the
agricultural sector, the project proposed to address this issue as a matter of priority by
establishing support services for agriculture and forestry. Accordingly, it designed a group-
based advisory system to channel improved production technologies. The development of
GOSS institutions mandated to promote the agricultural sector is a must, if these are to
deliver quality services to the rural population.
40.     Therefore, the project’s broad support to the agricultural institutions at the center, as
well as in the States and counties was appropriate and necessary. The project should also be
commended for expanding the scope of its interventions, which included
constructing/rehabilitating office buildings and training centers, support to the seed system,
provision of office facilities and equipment, staff training and policy development. The
project’s effort in developing policies and drafting legislation in cooperation with different
development partners and institutions was a substantial contribution towards defining the
country’s future development programs.


3.2    Achievements of Project Development Objectives
41. On the whole, the project has achieved its main development objective. Measured by
the revised key performance indicators (Section 1.3), formally revised end of project targets
(see section 1.7) were surpassed for all five indicators. Project targets were also surpassed for
three of the original targets while the percent achievement for the original targets that were
not surpassed stood at 93 percent for the indicator on number of tree seedlings raised and 70
percent for project beneficiaries. Within the framework of improving agricultural production
and productivity, the project successfully introduced an advisory service model for
agriculture and forestry, using group-based advisory services as a vehicle for channeling
improved agricultural practices. At completion, the project had organized and supported 777
FGs, with a total membership of 15,370, of which about 40% were women. Parallel to the
FGs, the project also supported ten special projects and 115 micro-projects as means of
generating technologies, the most acclaimed being seed producing farmer
groups/associations, as well as nurseries for producing fruit and forest trees.
42. The project transferred production technologies that were on-the-shelf, which
comprised: supply of improved varieties (mainly sorghum, maize, groundnut and cassava
imported from the neighboring countries), fruit and vegetables; and promoted the use of
improved cultural practices such as planting in rows, appropriate spacing and timely planting
and weeding. The introduction of the improved production technologies led to significant
increase in production and productivity. Yields of sorghum increased from a baseline of 0.2
t/feddan to 0.48 t/feddan, a one hundred thirty eight percent increase compared to the targeted
increase of 30 percent (i.e. from 0.2 t/feddan to 0.26 t/feddan). Maize yields increased by one
hundred twenty percent (from a baseline of 0.25 t/feddan to 0.55 t/feddan) compared to an
end of project target of a thirty percent increase. The yields for groundnuts increased by
seventy three percent compared to a targeted increase of twenty five percent. (See Annex 2).
43. The area under staples for participating farmers increased from 1 feddan to an average
of 2.27 feddans per household, a one hundred twenty-seven percent increase relative to end of
project target of a one hundred twenty percent increase. The number of tree seedlings raised,
planted and/or sold by participating farmers (138,066) surpassed the revised project target
(127,567) by eight percent. The project reached a total of 97,294 direct beneficiaries

                                               11
compared to a revised target of 88,900. Forty eight percent of the beneficiaries were female
relative to a target of 42 percent.
44. Important support was also provided to institutional development by: constructing and
upgrading physical infrastructure of MAF and the States; providing office and laboratory
equipment; improving mobility through the provision of vehicles; and training of about 1,234
staff of MAF, the States and Local Level Organizations. The improvement in staff working
conditions and their technical up-grading through training have resulted in skill advancement
and higher staff morale. These have ultimately improved the efficiency of the concerned
institutions, as partly evidenced by the continuous improvement in project implementation.
The provision of TA to the PIU helped to raise the implementation capacity of MAF, and has
transferred know-how to the staff of the Ministry, particularly in procurement and financial
management.
45. The project also took lead in assisting GOSS to formulate key policies in the
agricultural sector, which comprised research, extension, forest management, plant protection
and mechanization. Most of these policies were drafted in collaboration with other donors,
and are now being reviewed by the Government. Notable exceptions to the successful project
outcome were the sub-optimal results under the planned agricultural research development
together with the attendant failure to support the project’s advisory services; and the failure to
finalize the Research Management Framework (RMF). The RMF remained incomplete
mainly due to the lack of clear and dedicated guidance by the Government, resulting in
divergent interpretations of the task by the Research Specialists.
3.3    Efficiency
46. During project appraisal, no analyses were undertaken to assess the project’s impact
due to the dearth of information. Even now, at completion, the project did not produce
adequate data to develop a framework for impact analysis, because of the weak M&E system.
There are no farm management data that could enable the computation of farm incomes. The
only information collected consistently by the project was crop yields and the number of FGs
and their members. No information is available regarding land clearing and the use of farm
inputs and their costs, thus precluding any useful undertaking in economic and financial
analysis. Attempts at finding comparable projects elsewhere with similar conditions as South
Sudan have not been successful either. These circumstances do not permit the undertaking of
any meaningful economic and financial analysis.
47. In spite of the inability to carry out a sound financial and economic analysis to assess
the project’s impact, beneficiary farmers are apt at indicating the positive contribution of the
project to their livelihoods in terms of increased production. It is believed that increased
production has contributed positively to the supply of the local markets, thereby helping to
stabilize prices in the targeted counties.
48. In order to verify the validity of the claims regarding the project benefits, a simple
analysis was carried out by building upon the only relevant information available, i.e. on crop
yields and beneficiaries. Although this limited information could lead to debatable results,
this risk has been minimized by incorporating in the analysis very conservative assumptions
in terms of yield build up and project life (Annex 3). In this way, any possibility in
overstating project benefits would be reduced, if not eliminated completely. Since the project
has not collected information on beneficiary’s cultivated area by type of crop, maize has been
assumed to represent all the other crops.




                                               12
49. The results of these analyses, detailed in Annex 3 and summarized below, have in fact
confirmed the projects positive contribution to the supply of food crops to the beneficiary
farmers and the communities.
Table 2. Crop yields for beneficiaries

           Item                                               Maize Production (tons)
           Direct beneficiaries                               117, 831
           Indirect beneficiaries 8                           59,712
           Total                                              177, 543


The above estimated production is sufficient to feed about 1.48 million people for one year,
assuming a per caput consumption of 120 kg per year (FAO, 2011). This is indeed a
remarkable result, and that is why farmers believe they have obtained significant benefits. In
terms of value, the project production would amount to US$76. 34 million, using the 2013
procurement price of US$ 430 per ton of maize, used by World Food Programme (WFP) for
Central and Western Equatoria States. The analyses also show that the value of project output
is about 135% more than the total project costs: US$74.34 million versus US$32. 54 when
expressed in 2013 prices (Annex 3).
50. The project has also assisted farmers in producing other crops, including groundnut,
cassava, fruits and vegetables, thus promoting diversification which will help farmers in the
long-run by avoiding risks associated with dependency on few crops.
51. With regard to capacity building, the project has provided a wide range of support to
MAF and the five MAARIs in terms of improvement of office infrastructure, provision of
material and equipment, operational funds, staff training, as well as in improving mobility
through the supply vehicles (Section 2.2). These inputs resulted in a marked improvement in
working conditions and staff morale; which in turn led to higher efficiency in the technical
departments’ day-today operations and planning activities. After the completion of the
project, the capacity of the agricultural institutions has been improved substantially, and is
expected to benefit the planning and execution activities of future programs.
52. An important contribution has also been made by the project in supporting the
Government to formulate policies on a number of agricultural sector related areas. By taking
lead in assisting GOSS, the project was instrumental in formulating key agricultural sector
policies in cooperation with other donors. The policies, which included research, extension,
forest management, plant protection and mechanization, are now being reviewed by the
Government. These policies are anticipated to become operational during this year, and are
expected to contribute towards better performance of the agricultural sector


3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
53. The project objectives and the design were relevant. The project has achieved most of
these objectives, as measured by the key performance indicators explained in Section 3.2
above. The support to the agricultural sector through extension has helped the farmers to


8
  Indirect beneficiaries have been estimated assuming a low figure of 20% of the farmers under the FGs, motivating five
farmers each.


                                                            13
achieve higher productivity and production. Adoption of the productivity enhancing measures
by project participants offers practical demonstration to a large audience and is expected to
have a long-lasting impact in many communities. The informal seed production and bulking
activity introduced by the project within the farming communities appears to be moving
ahead, and could provide a useful ground for building a modern seed industry. These are
important project contributions to the improved performance of the agricultural sector. The
project’s achievement in strengthening the agricultural institutions in the center and in the
States is a significant down payment in building efficient institutions and has long-term
dividends.
54. These achievements would point to a favorable outcome rating, were it not for the poor
results from the planned adaptive research program, poor implementation of M&E and
environmental safeguards, the luck of a solid basis for any meaningful analysis of project
efficiency, as well as the low prospects for sustainability of outcomes. Considering these
points, the overall outcome rating is moderately unsatisfactory.
3.5    Overarching Themes, other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects and Social Development
55. The project was formulated at a time when a large number of displaced people were
returning to their homes, most of whom were in need of support to improve their livelihoods.
Therefore, although not expressly stated, the project intended to reduce poverty and improve
nutrition in several ways. First, it provided direct means of production (funds and technology)
for improving the livelihoods of the beneficiary farmers. Second, it increased the availability
and supply of marketable crop surpluses by the beneficiary farmers, thus improving
availability of food crops in the under-supplied markets. Third, it contributed to food price
stabilization in the local markets, owing to the marketable surplus produced by the supported
farmers. Therefore, it can be presumed that the increase crop production must have
contributed de facto to poverty reduction, although the weak M&E system did not capture the
impact on poverty.
56. As appraised, the project specifically designated women groups as important project
beneficiaries, and this was incorporated within the beneficiary selection criteria. During
implementation, the participation of women was actively encouraged and monitored. In fact,
about 48% of farmers in the FGs were women.


(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
57. The project was not involved in any structural change of the institutions, but supported
them within the existing setup. The first project action in institutional strengthening was the
decision taken to mainstream the project within the MAF by assigning implementation
responsibilities to the relevant TDs. This arrangement gave the TDs and their staff important
exposure in implementing large development programs and in cooperating with major
development partners, which was a valuable experience. The most significant project
contribution was however, the capacity building activities (Section 3.2) which have enhanced
the working efficiency of MAF and the MAARIs. After the completion of the project, the
capacity of the agricultural institutions has been improved substantially, and is expected to
benefit the planning and execution of future programs.
(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impact
58. The exclusion of ICRISAT from the project and the recruitment of five research
scientists turned out to be an auspicious decision, because after the Independence of South

                                              14
Sudan, these staff have remained within the country, thereby strengthening the cadre of
professionals. This fact is important in a country like South Sudan, where the paucity of
professionals is highly pronounced, particularly in some fields such as agricultural research.
There are a lot of expectations that the research scientists will contribute to the advancement
of agricultural research, both in terms of policy and actual field work.
4.     Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome
59. There is no information to enable risk analysis even at rudimentary level. Hence
discussions on risks are essentially conjectural. However, it can be anticipated that the two
major project interventions, i.e. the capacity building and the group-based advisory services
programs, present different levels of risks. The risk related to capacity building activities is
believed to be minimal, because the institutions that have been supported and equipped by the
project are already operating effectively, and appear to be geared up to pursue the course set
by the project. Therefore, if GOSS continues to fund them adequately, there is no reason to
believe that they will lose what they have achieved under the project.
60. On the other hand, the sustainability of the advisory services system is uncertain for
two reasons: a) the project financed 100% of the FG costs, which was repeated for more than
one season, and it is unclear now how many of the FGs will continue producing the way they
were organized and trained using their own resources; and b) with the closure of the project
and the termination of financial support to the project staff, most of the community
facilitators have left the project area, hence the bulk of the farmers are left without advisory
services. This may affect the continuation of the production practices introduced by the
project. Some encouraging signs of continuity are observed with regard to some FGs which
are trying to make additional investments and to register as cooperatives; but are very few
and are typically those that existed before the project. Taking these points into account, the
overall risk to the project’s development outcome is substantial.
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1    Bank Performance
(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
61. Rating: moderately unsatisfactory. Project formulation was well organized and
participatory in that it included Government officials. As appraised, the project components
were relevant, and the choice of the agricultural institutions to be supported was well
thought-out. Likewise, the proposal to accelerate project execution with the support of TA
was appropriate, given the limited implementation capacity of MAF and the States.
However, the idea of sourcing the TA from two predetermined development agencies was a
shortcoming in project design, because it did not capture the negative attitude of GOSS
towards heavy TA, as demonstrated by the backtracking of government from this idea
(Section 2.2).
62. The large area coverage of the group-based advisory services was too ambitious,
considering the limited implementation capacity of the States and the counties. Although this
was meant to reach as many farmers as possible, it was nevertheless unrealistic if seen from
the point of view of sustainable development. The absence of any analysis of project impact
was a clear deficiency in project formulation. Although the lack of data at appraisal may have
hindered the undertaking of quantitative analysis, at least a qualitative assessment of project
impact should have been attempted.




                                              15
(b)    Quality of Supervision
63. Rating: moderately satisfactory. Bank supervision of the project was carried out by a
country-based Task Team. This has proven to be an excellent arrangement as it facilitated
project execution by providing the implementing agencies with prompt and continued
support. From the outset, the Team was responsive to any request for assistance by the
project staff. It was also instrumental in reducing the delayed startup of the project by
recommending to the Bank Management the waiver of the outstanding condition for
effectiveness with regard to the contracting of FAO and ICRISAT. With this waiver, project
funds started to flow straightway, and the contract with LNGO was signed and became
operational within days.
64. Another important role played by the Team was the support given during the mid-term
review in streamlining implementation by recommending the strengthening of the PIU and
revising the scale of the project and the outcome indicators. In spite of the afore-mentioned
good performance, however, the Team did not succeed in its attempt to have the project
management establish an adequate M&E system and in preparing an ESMF. Although the
failure in finalizing the RMF was essentially that of MAF, in retrospect, the Team could have
played a more proactive role when it was realized that collaboration with ICRISAT would not
materialize. Perhaps the Bank staff could have been more assertive in their dealing with MAF
and the implementing units, particularly when MAF refused replacing the M&E and the
Safeguard Specialists.
5.2    Borrower Performance
(a)    Government Performance
65. Rating: moderately satisfactory: GOSS promptly established the IMPSC and ICC to
provide policy guidance and technical coordination, respectively. In addition, it endeavored
to strengthen project implementation performance by consenting to the establishment of the
PIU, when it was realized that the then coordination system was not operating as intended.
With this arrangement, the pace of project implementation picked up, allowing the
completion of the project tasks with the available funds.
66. While these engagements indicate GOSS’s support to the project, three important
factors reduce the performance rating. These are: a) rejecting the proposal to use the TA from
FAO and ICRISAT after agreeing to it during project appraisal and duly signing the Grant
Agreement; b) excessive delay in resolving the TA issue, which slowed down project
implementation; and c) cutback in GOSS contribution to the project, which led to the reduced
scope of the project, even though this decision was not specific to this project but to many
development programs that were in operation at that time.
(b)    Implementing Agencies Performance
67. Rating: moderately unsatisfactory. As the main implementing agency, MAF was keen
to implement the project. However, during project startup, a number of procurement activities
were inadequate because of the weak support from the agents of MOFEP and ineffective
project management, which slowed down implementation (Section 2.1). MAF’s decision to
establish the PIU improved the project’s performance significantly. A notable exception was
the failure to accomplish the task related to agricultural research, ESMF and M&E of the
project, which reflected negatively on MAF performance. An early reorganization of project
management would have certainly reduced the effects of these problems. The LNGO strived
to implement the project in line with the implementation plan. However, it concentrated more
on input delivery, rather than on the outcome and sustainability of the advisory services. This


                                              16
was clearly one of its shortcomings and the main cause for the inability to assess the project’s
impact.
6.     Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from the project are as follows:
First, during implementation, NGOs should mainly play a supportive role to the LGs to
enable LGs to take responsibility for development programs in their jurisdiction. During the
war, Government services in the rural areas were disrupted, and a void was created, which
was luckily filled by the NGOs who provided direly needed emergency and support services
to the communities. While the involvement of the NGOs is desirable, given the weak
institutional capacity of the States and counties, this should be done in a supportive role to the
LGs. As the owners of the development programs, the latter should be empowered to take
responsibility for these programs in their respective jurisdiction. The implementation
arrangements of the project in the States did not facilitate this, because the LGs were
dependent upon the LNGO for the financing of their operational expenses, such as
transportation, per diem and other needs. This practice should be changed as it tends to: a)
perpetuate the old lead-role of NGOs in servicing the rural areas; and b) delay the attainment
of full responsibility and accountability by the local institutions; and c) diminishes the ability
of the LGs to hold the NGOs accountable. Under the project, the LNGO was reporting solely
to MAF, and the States had little say in monitoring its operations. Future development
programs should aim at having a working system and resource allocation that raise the status
of the LGs and their staff.
Second, development programs in fragile environments should ensure that some expertize
and capacity remains in program areas to continue assisting beneficiary communities. The
extension workers under the project were temporary recruits of the LNGO, and they have left
the project area after the closure of the project, leaving the farmers to their destiny. Yet, these
workers have been trained under the project and acquired experience in working with
farmers, and are currently not available to the project States. Future development programs
should ensure that some of the experienced staff are left in situ to continue supporting the
rural communities. To this end, Government commitment that assures the continued
employment of the trained and experienced extension staff is necessary. Otherwise, if the
present practice is allowed to continue, it would mean accepting wasteful utilization of
limited resources.
Third, project design should refrain from ex-ante selection of institutions to provide exclusive
services or inputs, and to become sole implementers of parts of a project in a situation where
the authorities are uncertain about the idea. The proposal that government would enter into
agreement with FAO and ICRISAT for implementation of specific technical assistance was
meant to provide the nascent GOSS institutions with reputable international institutions that
have relevant country experience, and with potential for continued collaboration in the future.
However, since post-appraisal reflections could trigger changes in development approaches;
it is advisable not to identify by name the institutions, but to limit it to defining the task that
has to be accomplished and the overall qualification required, hence giving more options to
the Government. Another reflection that can be made with regard to the wisdom of selecting
exclusive service providers is the risk in delaying project start-up by making the involvement
of the subjectively preselected service providers a condition for project effectiveness. The
project was declared effective about seven months after it was approved, mainly because
GOSS did not fulfill the Grant Agreement’s requirement in signing contracts with FAO and
ICRISAT. Had it not been for the Bank’s decision to waive this requirement, the project


                                                17
would have accumulated more delays, jeopardizing one of the very aims of MDTF - to give
immediate support to the nascent country.
Fourth, even in rapid response programs, project design should endeavor to define and
specify in detail all tasks to be accomplished. When the agreement with ICRISAT did not
materialize, and GOSS recruited independent research scientists, it took a long time to come
up with a work program, because there was no adequate technical guidance and suggested
program of work outlined in the FPP. This exacerbated the delay caused by the lengthy, but
failed discussions between GOSS and ICRISAT. It is advisable that, during project
preparation, all project tasks are clearly defined, and a broad program of work outlined,
regardless of the level of technical competence of the proposed implementing institution.
The reason for not giving adequate technical guidance and a broad work program for the
research sub-component, during preparation, is probably due to the assumption that ICRISAT
knew well the task ahead.
Fifth, predictability in terms of funding and project closing date is critical to meaningful
project planning. Because of uncertainty in the duration of funding, the project
implementation period remained ambiguous, and the closing date was extended three times,
with two key considerations: availability of funds and the closing date of MDTF-SS, beyond
which the project could not stay operational. This hindered foreword looking planning for
some project activities, particularly the group-based advisory services and its smooth phasing
out. For example, when the LNGO had to wind-down its activities, it was in the middle of the
cropping season; hence, many farmers who joined the project in 2012 obtained the grant
fund, but not the necessary technical support. As a result, the performance of these farmers is
not known. This also points to the need for implementing agencies to prepare exit plans under
different closing-date scenarios, in such a way as to minimize the inefficient use of resources
and avoid inconclusive tasks.
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)  Borrower/Implementing Agencies
None

(b)  Co-financiers
None

(c)  Other Partners and Stakeholders
None




                                              18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                        Components                      Appraisal Estimate (USD millions) Actual/Latest Estimate (USD millions) Percentage of Appraisal
Support to Agricultural Services                                25.00                             17.20                                  68.80
Support to Institutional Development                            17.90                             12.90                                  72.50
Support to Project Implementation*                                -                                1.90                                    n/a
Total Baseline Cost                                             42.90                             32.00                                  74.60
Physical Contingencies                                           0.00                              0.00                                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                              0.00                              0.00                                   0.00
Total Project Costs                                             42.90                             32.00                                  74.60
Project Preparation Costs                                        0.26                              0.26                                 100.00
Total Financing Required                                                                                                                 74.75
*Component was introduced after project restructuring


(b) Financing

                                                                                                          Actual/Latest
                                                                                 Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
                        Source of Funds                    Type of Cofinancing                              Estimate
                                                                                  (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                                                         (USD millions)
GoSS                                                                                    17.10                 1.80                 10.50
Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan                                               25.80                30.17                117.00




                                                                        19
        Annex 2.          Project Outputs by Component

    Outcome Indicators                                      Unit of       Baseline   EoP Target       Actual                              Remarks
                                                            Measure        (2008)      (Revised)   Result (2012)
PDO: To increase the productivity and production of participating smallholder farmers in agriculture and forestry
Increase in yields of staple foods by participating           %           t/fed
farmers
                                                  Sorghum                  0.2          30%            138%
                                                                                     (0.26t/fed)    (0.48 t/fed)
                                                   Maize                  0.25          30%            120%
                                                                                     (0.33t/fed)    (0.55 t/fed)
                                                  G.nuts                  0.35          20%            73%
                                                                                     (0.42t/fed)    (0.61 t/fed)
Increase in area under crops by participating farmers         %         1 fed/HH         120            127
Number of tree seedlings raised, planted and/or sold by       No          4,041       148,891        138,066
participating farmers
Number of project beneficiaries (direct)                      No           n/a         88,900         97,294       Total project beneficiaries estimated at 446,929
Intermediate Result 1A: Agricultural and Forestry Support Services Established
Number of Counties in which agricultural and forestry         No           n/a           27             27         Original target was 44 Counties in the 5 states
services operational
Number of feddans cultivated with crops and trees by          Fed          n/a         26,519         34,512
project participants
Quantity of improved seeds produced by project                MT          NIL           n/a            334.4       An additional 3.9MT of sorghum (1,600 kg each of
                                                                                                                   Matma1 and Macia) and 700 kg of Maize Longe 4 & 5
                                                                                                                   breeders seed was procured to be multiplied by FGs
                                                                                                                   around COBAMAs with an anticipated yield of
                                                                                                                   1005MT of certified seed
Number of Farmer groups                                       No           n/a          990             777        15,369 members of which 6,100 (40%) were female;
                                                                                                                   10,044 farmers trained in various agronomic and
                                                                                                                   agroforestry practices.
Number of Special Projects                                    No           n/a           15             10         3,430 farmers served: 334.4 MT assorted seeds - 280.2
                                                                                                                   MT sorghum (Gadam alhamam, Arfa gadamak, Gisesh,
                                                                                                                   Agono); 6.34 MT groundnuts (Igola, Serenut I & II,
                                                                                                                   Red beauty); 47.26 MT Longe 5 maize); and 50.0 MT
                                                                                                                   cassava (TME 14) planting materials distributed to
                                                                                                                   FGs.

                                                                                        20
     Outcome Indicators                                  Unit of   Baseline   EoP Target       Actual                              Remarks
                                                         Measure     (2008)     (Revised)   Result (2012)
Number of Micro Projects                                   No       n/a          132            115         Implemented by CBOs and Local Govts benefiting
                                                                                                            78,041 farmers out of an estimated population of
                                                                                                            234,123.
Intermediate Result 1B: Research/TDT Support Services Established
Number of technologies made available to participants      No       n/a                7        >10         Improved varieties – groundnuts (Igola, Serenut III,
under the project                                                                                           Red Beauty), maize (Longe 4, 5 & 7), cassava (TME
                                                                                                            14), Sorghum (Serena, Wadahmed, Gesheshe,
                                                                                                            Arfagadamak, KARI Mtama 1, Macia, fruits (mango,
                                                                                                            citrus), vegetables; Improved cultural practices – line
                                                                                                            planting, time of planting/weeding, spacing; Improved
                                                                                                            bee hives – KTB; Poultry keeping; Agroforestry; etc;
                                                                                                            36 Farmer groups involved in on-farm research with
                                                                                                            scientists.
Number of zonal research stations                          No      NIL            2              3          Yei, Palotaka and Halima/Wau.
rehabilitated/refurbished
Intermediate Result 2: Institutional Capacities (National, State and County) built/strengthened through:
1.   Improved Working Conditions
     Number of physical facilities constructed and/or      No      NIL            15             16         5 State offices; Kegulu Forestry Training Centre
     refurbished                                                                                            (Hostel, Kitchen/Dining, Classroom); Yei Agricultural
                                                                                                            Research Centre; Ministry office block (Prefab, Main
                                                                                                            Block & Tukul); Palotaka Basic Seed Centre (Seed
                                                                                                            store, Hostel & Staff houses); 3 COBAMA stores; 3
                                                                                                            Border Inspection posts; Wau laboratory. 7 additional
                                                                                                            produce stores and market facilities constructed under
                                                                                                            SGM component. Original target was also to
                                                                                                            rehabilitate/construct offices in 44 counties, which was
                                                                                                            dropped during phase 2.
     Number of vehicles procured and distributed to        No       n/a           30             30         2 vehicles to each State; 5 vehicles for Seed Sector.
     recipient States/institutions
     Number of motorcycles procured and distributed to     No       n/a           34             34         A motorcycle for each of the 27 counties.
     recipient States/institutions
     Other equipment procured and distributed            Various    n/a          n/a          Various       15 generators, 6 VSAT, 2 motorized boats, 5 walking
                                                                                                            tractors, 2 farm tractors, 2 sawmills, 3 mobile & 1
                                                                                                            stationary seed processing machines, various office and
                                                                                                            laboratory equipment.

                                                                                 21
     Outcome Indicators                             Unit of   Baseline   EoP Target       Actual                              Remarks
                                                    Measure    (2008)      (Revised)   Result (2012)
2.   Training and Capacity Building
     Number of staff trained in specialised areas     No       45           165            645
     Number of LLO/LG staff trained                   No       n/a          475            589         98 Community Facilitators offered basic Agric.
                                                                                                       training for 3 months; 5 CF for Certificate training in
                                                                                                       Baraka college-Kenya; and 108 on Training of
                                                                                                       Trainers; rest short-term training in financial
                                                                                                       management, monitoring & evaluation, project
                                                                                                       proposal writing, organisational development,
                                                                                                       pluralistic extension management
     Number of key sector policies formulated         No      NIL            5              8          Supported development of 5 thematic agricultural
                                                                                                       sector policies – forestry, extension, seeds, research
                                                                                                       and training; frameworks for M&E, Environment &
                                                                                                       Social safeguards; HR & Capacity Building needs.
     Technical Assistance (personnel)                 No      NIL                           6          Long-term TA in agriculture/Project Management,
                                                                                                       Forestry, Environment, M&E, Finance and
                                                                                                       Procurement mentored and trained local staff.




                                                                            22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1       During project appraisal, no analyses were undertaken to assess the project’s impact in
qualitative or quantitative terms, because of lack of relevant information. This has deprived the
ICR frames of reference by means of which to compare expected and realized outcomes.
Unfortunately, even now at completion, there is lack of adequate information to undertake
economic and financial analysis. The project’s M&E system was weak, and did not produce
information that enables the development of a framework for impact analysis. Attempts in
comparing SAFDP with similar projects elsewhere were not successful, after failing to find
conditions that are comparable to South Sudan.

2       Although the project organized FGs and provided them with technical advice for different
crops, information on land clearing costs and use of farm inputs and their costs was not
collected; hence no reliable farm income analysis could be carried out. Furthermore, information
regarding farmers outside the FGs was not documented at all; although substantial benefits were
expected to originate from these farmers who were supposed to adopt improved farming
technologies from the members of the FGs. The only information collected by the project was
related to crop yields and number of project beneficiary within the FGs. Therefore, there are no
bases to undertake meaningful economic and financial analysis

3       In spite of the above difficulties, however, there is evidence of positive impact of the
project, even though these could not be measured easily. According to the LNGO, beneficiaries
were positive about the favorable contribution of the project to their livelihood as a result of
increased crop production. In this regard, the LNGO reports that farmers were appreciative about
the project’s positive contribution to the FGs and their families. Indeed, the analysis shown in
Para. 4 to 6 appear to corroborate the project’s significant impact on the food supply of the
communities.

4       An attempt has been made to assess the project’s crop production level, using the only
two elements for which the project had gathered information, i.e. crop yields and number of
direct beneficiaries. These were enhanced by making few assumptions to generate the missing
data, and are described below.

   a) The project did not gather details on the type of crop cultivated by each farmer; hence the
      production estimate has been carried out assuming that maize would represent all crops
      produced.
   b) Maize yields as indicated in the data sheet (PDO Indicator 2) has been used, i.e. baseline
      0.25 tons per feddan (0.62 tons per ha), and at completion 0.55 tons per feddan (1.31 tons
      per ha). The incremental yield is estimated to build up in three years with equal annual
      growth.
   c) The number of project beneficiaries consists of 15,057 direct beneficiaries (members of
      the FGs), and an equal number of indirect beneficiaries, assuming conservatively that
      20% of the members of the FGs have each transferred the improved production methods
      to 5 farmers. The indirect beneficiaries obtain seed from the FGs, as well as from some
      seed growers.


                                               23
   d) Since the FGs are planting on newly cleared land, all the produce has been ascribed to the
      project. However, the production of the indirect beneficiaries has been calculated net of
      baseline or pre-project production.

   e) The production estimate has been based on one ha per farmer which marginally below the
      end of project acreage reported in the results framework (i.e. 2.27 feddans per farmer).

   f) The project life has been conservatively assumed to be eight years, mainly because of the
      doubt that farmers may not be able to obtain improved seeds, as required. Hence, given
      that the seeds lose their genetic potential after about four seasons of planting, the initial
      project farmers would have their seeds replaced before the closing of the project.


5       Based on the above assumptions, project production is estimated at about 177,540 tons,
as shown in the table below, and should be considered as a substantial amount. Just to put this
production into perspective, it is sufficient to feed about 1.48 million people for one year,
assuming a per caput consumption of 120 kg per year. This is why farmers believe that the
project has improved their livelihood, as increased production means reducing, if not eliminating,
the hunger gap they suffer few months before harvest. The incremental production must have
also contributed to food availability in the markets of the project counties, very likely countering
the negative effects of escalating food prices. The incremental maize production per farmer is
approximately 1.31 for the members of FGs and 0.72 for the indirect beneficiaries. Applying the
current maize procurement prices of World Food Programme (WFP) of US$ 430 in West and
Central Equatoria, the gross value of the farmers’ output would be US$ 563 for the members of
the FGs, and US$310 for the indirect beneficiaries.


                                        Maize Production Estimates
    Direct        Year1         Year2         Year3         Year4      Year5      Year6-8      Total
 Beneficiaries                                          Tons per ha

    3938             3,308         4,253         5,159         5,159      5,159     15,477       38,515
    3,681                          3,092         3,975         4,822      4,822     14,466       31,177
    3,532                                        2,967         3,814      4,627     13,881       25,289
    3,906                                                      3,281      4,218     15,351       22,850
    Total         3,308         7,345           12,101        17,076     18,826     59,175      117,831

   Indirect
 Beneficiaries
    3938                  945      1,890         2,835         2,835      2,835      8,502       19,847
    3,681                            883         1,766         2,650      2,650      7,952       15,899
    3,532                                          847         1,695      2,543      7,631       12,714
    3,906                                                        937      1,875      8,436       11,253
    Total
                          945      2,773         5,448         8,117      9,903     32,521       59,712

 Grand Total
                     4,253        10,118        17,549        25,193     28,729     91,696   177,543



                                                   24
6       The total value of the project production would come to about US$ 76.34 million using
the procurement price of WFP. This compares favorably with the total project cost of US$ 30.10,
which in 2013 prices would be US$ 32.54 (8.1% of cumulative inflation), which is about 135%
more than the total project costs. The tonnage or value of production cannot be compared with
project forecasts, as no estimates were made at preparation or appraisal.

7       The above analyses are based on very conservative assumptions, particularly with regard
to project life and assumption of adoption rate by indirect beneficiary farmers. If a little less
pessimistic assumption were to be made, project production would be much higher under
different scenarios, as follows:


Item                          Project life (Years)                 Maize Production (Tons)

ICR estimate                         8                                     177,543

Scenario 1                           10                                    238,675

Scenario 2                           12                                    299,807



If the proportion of farmers within the FGs that induce other farmers to adopt better practices
was to be increase from 20% to 40%, the project production would literally double.

8       The project has also assisted farmers in producing other crops, including groundnut,
cassava, fruits and vegetables, thus introducing a diversification program which will help farmers
in the long-run by avoiding risks associated with dependency on one or two crops only.

9       With regard to capacity building, the project has provided a wide range of support to
MAF and the five MAARIs in terms of improvement of office infrastructure, provision of
material and equipment, operational funds, staff training, as well as in improving mobility
through the supply vehicles (Section 2.2). These inputs resulted in a marked improvement in
working conditions and staff morale; which in turn led to higher efficiency in the technical
departments’ day-today operations and planning activities. After the completion of the project,
the capacity of the agricultural institutions has been improved substantially, and is expected to
benefit the planning and execution activities of future programs. For instance, with the
mainstreaming of the project activities within MAF, the PIU has become part of the Ministry,
and its TA personnel have transferred the technical know-how to the staff in several disciplines.
These included the preparation of project work plans and reports, procurement of goods and
services and in financial management. These new skills acquired by the MAF staff will be useful
in enhancing the quality of implementation of the Ministry’s future development programs.

10.     An important contribution has also been made by the project in supporting the
Government to formulate policies on a number of agricultural sector related areas. By taking lead
in assisting GOSS, the project was instrumental in formulating key agricultural sector policies in


                                               25
cooperation with other donors. The policies, which included research, extension, forest
management, plant protection and mechanization, are now being reviewed by the Government.
These policies are anticipated to become operational during this year, and are expected to
contribute towards better performance of the agricultural sector by avoiding policy-void and
uncertainty that have prevailed up till now.




                                            26
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Jean Delion                  Sr. Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
David Rudge                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Jeeva Perumalpillai- Essex   Sector Leader                         AFTS2 TTL
Mark Cackler                 Sector Manager                         ARD Rural Development
John Spears                                                              Forestry Specialist
John Oloya                   Sr. Rural Development Specialist      AFTS2
                                                                         Financial
Fredrick Yankey              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
                                                                         Management
Supervision/ICR
Berhane Manna                Sr. Agriculturist                     AFTA3 TTL
John Oloya                   Sr. Rural Development Specialist      AFTAR TTL
Santa Maria Aguti            Team Assistant                        AFMJB
Evarist F. Baimu             Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF
Hellen Mbao Chilupe          Sr. Operations Officer                AFMJB
Christine E. Cornelius       Consultant                            AFTAR
Edward Felix Dwumfour        Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Wahida Huq                   Sr. Operations Officer                CFPPM
Museme Munira Issa           Gender Specialist                     AFTP2
Mylinda Night Justin         ET Consultant                         AFTAR
Abel Lufafa                  Agricultural Officer                  AFTA3 Co-TTL
Prosper Nindorera            Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Lucy Paul Ofere              Temporary                             AFMJB
Nancy Achieng Okita          Team Assistant                        AFMJB
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola    Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Hawanty Page                 Sr. Program Assistant                 AFTAR
Pascal Tegwa                 Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Frederick Yankey             Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Charles Ragovura Yoere       Rural Development Specialist          AFTAR
Dorothy Morrow Akikoli       Team Assistant                        AFMJB
Anjani Kumar                 Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPE
Gbangi Kimboko               Procurement Assistant                 AFTA3
Bedilu Amare Reta            Environmental Specialist              AFMJB




                                                 27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                                                -                      19.53
Total:                                                                     19.53
Supervision/ICR                                     -                     879.00
Total:                                                                    898.53

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not available




                                               28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not available




                                        29
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                Republic of South Sudan
              Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Rural Development
                           Implementation Completion Report
     Agriculture and Forestry Development Project: MDTF-SS Grant No: TF 091282

                                     Executive Summary
1. To reduce poverty and food insecurity problems, growth in agriculture and forestry is decisive
to bring about the overall economic development of South Sudan. Thus, Support to Agriculture
and Forest Development Project (SAFDP) was designed and implemented.
2. Project Objectives: The objectives of the SAFDP were: (a) facilitating the dissemination and
adoption of improved technologies in agriculture and forestry to increase productivity through
group-based small grants and collaborative projects; and (b) strengthening the capacities of the
Central, State and Local Governments to plan and deliver services in agriculture and forestry
development endeavors.

3. Financing: The project was designed to be co-financed by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund,
facilitated through the World Bank and the Government of South Sudan. While the original
project cost was US $ 42.9 million, the total net available fund was US $ 32 million.

4. Project Components: SAFDP was composed of two major components: (i) establishment and
operation of support services, and (ii) institutional development. In addition, support to
implementation of the project was also considered as a secondary component to ease project
management.

5. Project Targets: The project operated in five of the ten States of South Sudan: Upper Nile,
Unity, Jonglei, East Equatoria, and Central Equatoria States, and in 27 Counties of the States.
The States were selected based on their (i) potential for agricultural and forestry resources; (ii)
vicinity to key border points of Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and the trade routes to North Sudan;
(iii) availability of training facilities; and (iv) capacity of the States, and availability of NGOs
and CBOs. Moreover, the project targeted to address 730 agricultural and 260 forestry groups
producers in the specified states.

6. Project Period: The project was originally designed for five years (2007-2011).
Nevertheless, as the commencement date was delayed for several reasons till June 2008, the end
period of the project was extended to June 2012.

7. Project Design: The project design was holistic, supporting institutional development all from
the top Ministry and State levels down to the grassroots level. The project intervention is
centered upon group-based farmers’ introduction of improved technologies and building
functionality of the line departments/offices. However, as the design and approval process was
based on “emergency approach? for a development project, it lacked baseline data and clear
indicator at the beginning. This created implementation and monitoring problems in the first
phase in particular.



                                                30
8. Institutional Arrangement: Implementation of the project was the full responsibility of MAF,
the State and Counties in target areas. The MAF established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
to fully undertake the overall management and implementation of the project. Because of the
capacity limitation of the MAF, component I was contracted to Norwegian People’s Agency
(NPA), an international development partner. The implementation of the project was structured
in two phases. Phase I (2007-2009) focused on policy and institutional development, human
capacity building and farmer group mobilization; and Phase II (2009-2012) further strengthened
the institutions, based on the “lessons learned? from the first phase and then expand research and
extension support services.

9. Project Activities and Performances: The progress of the project implemented activities
and the performances of each component are summarized as follows:

9.1 Component I: Establishment and Operation of Support Services: This component was
the core of the project. It aimed at facilitating adoption of improved technologies in agriculture
and forestry and increase productivity and production through strengthening provision of
extension services and effective agricultural research to support technology development and
transfer. It was chiefly implemented in partnership with NPA, operating in collaboration with
Local Level Organizations (LLO), Community Based Organizations (CBO), Local
Administrations and agricultural researchers. The key modality of the support was farmers’
group-based grant and advisory service. In addition, the funding was also provided to a number
of demonstrative Micro-projects and Special Projects, especially in seeds production value chain
that was designed to support the expansion of seeds production. The most important supports
provided were: (i) provision of the grant fund to the Farmers’ Group (FGs), Micro-projects
(MPs), and Special Projects (SPs) for the purchase of improved technologies (improved seeds)
and farm tools as well as to cover other production costs; (ii) capacity building (training) for
farmers and local organizations and (iii) provision of technical advisory services. During the
entire project period, NPA mobilized 236 FGs with a total membership of 3,849people (40%
female) representing their households. To complement the grant support, about 8,643 people
were trained (37% female) in the areas of improved agronomic practices, group dynamics, record
keeping, and vegetable production and fruit/tree seedlings propagation techniques.

   •   Farmers group: Several activities were undertaken by the FGs including agricultural
       production (field crops, vegetables, poultry and fish farming), agro-forestry practices and
       development of tree nurseries. Most FGs (90%) were engaged in agricultural production
       (largely field crops), about 2% in forestry/agro-forestry and 7.6% in both agriculture and
       forestry combined. Improved varieties of crops and vegetables, along with their packages
       of improved agronomic and agro-forestry practices were technologies transferred. As a
       result, considerable participating farmers adopted the improved technologies, resulting
       in increased yield and area of land under cultivation, which, in turn, resulted in food
       production and market surplus. Interestingly, at least 85% of the participating farmers
       have adopted one of the different types of technologies introduced and all adopted row
       planting. Consequently, yield of maize and sorghum increased, on average, from 0.2 ton
       per feddan in 2008 to 0.34 ton per feddan in 2011 (70% increase). According to the
       farmers’ opinion, although not quantified, yield of all the other products also increased.
       Equally important is that the FGs increased their land holdings as more land was brought

                                               31
    under cultivation from an average of 9.0 feddan in 2008 to 38 feddan in 2011 (which is a
    322% increase). In the same fashion, members of the FGs also increased their individual
    farm size by 160% from an average of 2.5 feddan per household before the project.
    Ultimately, beyond securing their food requirements, members of the FGs reported that
    each of them sell 100 kg to 250 kg of maize or sorghum and at least half of a ton of
    cassava every year. FGs involved in vegetables, poultry and fish farming were selling
    more than 75% of their produce. Consequently, members of the FGs were able to
    generate adequate cash incomes to finance household expenditures, school and medical
    expenses. Besides, farmers were able to acquire economic and social assets. This sub-
    component is rated as satisfactory in the Implementation Process (IP) and generated
    highly satisfactory outcomes, achieving the Project Development Objectives (PDO).

•   Micro Projects: A number of CBOs and LLOs participated in the project in a competitive
    manner to get fund grants and associated trainings. During the project period, 18 to 36
    MPs participated each year. Successful MPs were engaged mainly in technology
    demonstration, seed bulking, lulu collection and processing, fruit and tree planting.
    Accordingly, from 2009 to 2011 over 1,700 feddans of land were cultivated, about 1,410
    tons of grain was produced (excluding vegetables) as well as close to 100,000 assorted
    seedlings were raised and 76 feddans of land was planted with seedlings. Thus, the IP and
    achievement of MPs were both found to be satisfactory in relation to the PDO.

•   Special Projects: The Special Projects (SPs) were exclusively involved in improved seed
    multiplication of crops, fruits/vegetables, and improved stalk bulking for cassava
    production. Similar to the Micro Projects, the fund support was based on the feasibility of
    the projects. Initially, each of the five-targeted State Ministries identified one special
    project, prepared a proposal, which was submitted to NPA. Then, NPA, in turn,
    submitted the proposal to MAF for approval. In 2010, the MAF gave approval for the
    implementation of one SP for each of the five states. However, only three special projects
    were endorsed by MAF for implementation in 2011, and were further reduced to two
    special projects in 2012. Until this document was compiled, approximately 1,000 feddans
    of land were cultivated and about 230 tons of improved seeds of groundnut, sorghum, and
    maize was harvested. It was noted that the occurrence of the SPs gradually diminished,
    contrary to the dramatic increase of demand for improved seeds towards the last year of
    the project period (the time when the project put emphasis on the case). Therefore, the IP
    and the performance towards achieving the PDO were rated as moderately satisfactory.

•   Technology Development and Transfer: Five senior agricultural scientists were
    collaborating with NPA to undertake agricultural research and technology transfer to
    ensure sustainable increase in agricultural productivity. Accordingly, on-farm trials were
    superimposed on the FGs practices; and on-station trails and seed bulking were
    undertaken in respective centers. The trials resulted in the development of improved
    vegetable production techniques, introduction of improved tissue culture of a banana
    variety (Grand Nain), and an improved mosaic resistant cassava variety. Nursery
    techniques and agro-forestry practices were developed specially for raising mango and
    banana seedlings, and several okra varieties were screened and three were recommended.
    Yet much was not done mainly because of time shortage (only two effective years) and

                                            32
       difficulty to cover extensive geographical and thematic areas by the few scientists.
       Moreover, research policy document was only drafted but not yet finalized and neither
       was an institutional framework in place for the agricultural research and advisory services.
       Thus, the implementation performance and the achievements towards the PDO of this
       sub-component were rated as moderately unsatisfactory in relation to the volume of
       outcome expected in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

9.2 Component II: Institutional Development: This component was meant to develop
institutional capacities at Central (MAF) and at the five State Ministers (MAARIs) level to
deliver effective and efficient planning and coordination services. The component focused on (i)
improvement of logistical infrastructure (ii) capacity building and support to implementation,
and (iii) support to policy formulation and planning. Accordingly, infrastructure was
aggressively developed – six new offices, three new border posts, four new seed stores were
constructed, and one training center and two research stations were rehabilitated. Some grains
stores and business premises were also developed for FGs through NPA. With respect to
logistics, a lot of vehicles, office and laboratory equipment, furniture and other facilities were
procured and distributed to target institutions. In addition, over 650 staff members of the
concerned institutions were provided with short-term training in and outside the country. For
effective implementation of the project, PIU was well staffed with international and local experts
and expertise for key undertakings (small grants management, civil works and their supervision,
studies, etc.) outsourced. More importantly, the functionality of the MAF and MAARI greatly
improved as a result of the support in logistics and training they obtained. Thus, regarding
elements (i and ii), this component could be rated as satisfactory, both in IP and in achieving
PDO. However, efforts at formulating policies in key areas and at establishing appropriate
management information and M&E framework were left much behind the schedule. Drafts have
already been produced for research, extension, forest management and plant protection, seed
system and mechanization. Thus, the precarious situation demands serious commitment of the
higher officials of MAF for further processing of the draft documents for endorsement and
implementation. This element of the component was generally regarded as moderately
unsatisfactory.

9.3 Project Management and Partners’ Support: Results of the assessment indicate that
management support was sufficiently strong to move the project along the desired objectives.
The financial resources were exclusively and exhaustively used for the intended purposes.
Virtually all important items planned in the project design were procured, within the limits of the
available budget, used and/or distributed to respective institutions/activities. Although there
appeared some weaknesses in undertaking proper M&E of project implementation in the
preceding years, the performance appraisal of latest period was solid. The strong partnership
formed with international organizations (like NPA) in project implementation deserves special
appreciation. In addition, the World Bank provided frequent and close technical
supports/advisory services and facilitated financial transfer, which significantly contributed to
the success of the project. Overall, the project management and partners’ supports were
satisfactory, both in the implementation process and towards achieving the desired outcomes of
the PDO.




                                                33
9.4 Challenges and Problems: A number of challenges and problems were encountered in the
implementation of the project. The most important ones include: low numbers of skilled and
knowledgeable experts at all levels; absence of well-organized seed supply system; poor road
infrastructure; erratic rainfall, pests and diseases; disputes and insecurity; difficulty to manage
too extensive geographical coverage and strenuous land clearing to make ready for cultivation.

9.5 Lessons Learned: Key technical and managerial lessons were learned from the project
formulation and implementation process. The project design was comprehensive in the sense that
it identified key institutions, building their physical and human resource capacities all from the
higher to the lower hierarchies, which will have tremendous long-term affirmative impacts on the
development of the sector. The concentration of the financial grant and advisory support on the
grassroots (farmers, community and local level organizations) has helped address critical
problems on the ground, putting the masses at an advantageous position.

The project was flexible, right from design through implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
Thus, fiduciary procedures with the donors and the framework of agreement with the
implementing NGO were simplified. For instance, use of NPA procurement system was found to
be effective, especially where the capacity of the local government institutions is low and
structures and systems are either rudimentary or non-existing.

The project has induced huge demand for improved seeds, mechanization, storage facilities, and
transport and market services. These are all encouraging achievements towards growth and
development of the sector. However, the effectiveness and efficiency of the project
implementation, success and sustainability of the outcomes all depend on dedication and
consistent technical support of local institutions by way of empowering communities so that they
will be able to make decisions on their resources and provide technological backstopping on a
sustainable manner.

9.6 The way forward: The government has plans and strategies for sustainable scaling out the
project outputs and impacts. The need for further support to rural farmers through value chain
development approach and continuous capacity building of human resource are well recognized.
The Government would undertake such initiatives by leveraging resources for other project like
– FARM project, AGRA support, EU and IFAD support, World Bank new initiatives for
construction of rural roads, etc.




                                                34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not available




                                         35
Annex 9. Project preparation and Implementation Environment

The Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project was prepared, funded and
implemented under the framework of the Multi-donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (MDTF-
SS). Following the cessation of hostilities and signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement
(CPA) between the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) and the Government of
Sudan, a joint assessment of recovery and development needs in Sudan was conducted by the
World Bank, the UN, Government of Sudan and SPLM. The Joint Assessment Mission (JAM)
report elaborated a framework for sustained peace, development and poverty eradication in
Sudan and recommended the establishment of the MDTF-SS to facilitate coordination of external
donor financing for the reconstruction and development of Southern Sudan. The World Bank
was selected to administer the MDTF-SS under the guidance and supervision of an Oversight
Committee (OC) which was composed of donor and government representatives.

Context during Preparation

The SAFDP was prepared at a time when the World Bank was just reengaging with Sudan after
nearly a decade of absence. The rationale for supporting the project derived from the recovery
and development strategy adapted in the JAM report. That strategy called for prioritizing and
transforming agriculture through programs and investments in technology transfer and
dissemination, improving markets and sustainable natural resource management among others.

The ministry of Agriculture and Forestry which was to implement the project had just been
formed out of the SPLM’s Secretariat for Agriculture and Animal Resources and had limited
capacity in critical areas. For example, below the Directors General, there were mostly no
qualified staff in most of the Directorates. The situation in the states where most of the
implementation action would take place was worse, as staff had limited to no formal training, no
experience and exposure outside the former garrison towns. This luck of capacity would be
remedied through TA. There was almost no means of mobility or communication within the
States and between the States and the Headquarters. Apart from staff salaries, the ministry had
no budget for routine operations and therefore most of the staff were redundant. Key sectoral
foundations like policies, strategies and regulations did not exist at all. There was no agricultural
advisory service system in any way, shape or form and at the farm level, farmers were reporting
yields that were far below the genetic potential for most crops, were producing on limited small
acreage and most land was left idle.

Because the political context of the MDTF-SS demanded and expected the quick delivery of
services - as evidence of peace dividends to the people of Southern Sudan-, the project was
prepared in haste. The design process therefore did not benefit from any background studies and
this, combined with insecurity in most parts of the South and a general lack of data in Southern
Sudan further confounded the preparation process. The urgency, data limitations and lack of
analytical studies meant for example that a sound M&E and details of the proposed research
program would not be finalized at appraisal.

At the time the project was prepared, there was also significant uncertainty in project financing.
At that time, most donor pledges had not been paid in to the MDTF-SS and the idea then was to


                                                 36
fund the project through annual tranches that would be approved at the beginning of each year by
the OC. Because of this resource limitation a decision was reached to adopt a phased approach to
project implementation. The financing plan was for the MDTF-SS to contribute US$9.8 million
while the government would contribute US$8.0 to phase 1. In the second phase, the MDTF-SS
would contribute US$15.9 million and the government would contribute US$9.0 million for a
total project resource envelope of US$42.9 million. Final allocations would be determined by the
OC in line with its programmatic and allocational responsibility under the MDTF-SS governance
structure.

Context during Implementation:

When the government of South Sudan was formed, it sought to claw back public sector mandate
(from the UN and NGOs) and to buttress its legitimacy by directly providing services to its
people. A key objective of the MDTF-SS therefore was to build core public sector capacity to
deliver basic services leading to the decision to mainstream project activities directly into the
operations of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Mainstreaming project activities through
the ministry structures led to a number of unforeseen developments. First, under an environment
where the ministry had no operational budget and limited understanding of Bank projects, it led
to the perception by several actors that the project was a vehicle to finance activities and work
plans of directorates regardless of whether they were part or not part of the project concept. This
had a particularly negative effect on finalization of the M&E system as had been anticipated at
appraisal as the Directorate of Planning and Programming that was responsible for the project
M&E decided to implement a sector-wide M&E system that did not specifically address the
project’s M&E needs. Remedying this problem later became difficult when Technical Assistance
provided under the collaborative agreement with FAO ended.

During implementation, there was also a general ambivalence towards TA on the part of the
implementing agency. This was partly because there was no parity between government salaries
and consultants’ fees, but also due to the desire by government to manage its own development
program. Because of this aversion to TA, the implementing agency delayed the recruitment of a
Safeguards Specialist contrary to what had been planned at appraisal and terminated the
Specialist’s contract after one year. This aversion towards TA also meant that the M&E system
would not be finalized as no replacement was sought for the FAO provided M&E Specialist.

The implementation was also characterized by profound uncertainty in terms of financing and
this in turn affected the closing date. Originally, the MDTF-SS provided US10.0 million in the
first financing agreement. However, when government revenues reduced due to the falling of
global oil prices in 2009, the Bank agreed to the government’s request to increase and frontload
MDTF-SS contribution to Phase 1, on the understanding that when it’s fiscal position improved,
government would compensate for the frontloaded funds by contributing more to the second
phase while the Bank contributed less. Consequently, the MDTF-SS increased its contribution to
Phase 1 from US$9.8 million to US$16.2 million.

Because the MDTF-SS portfolio was not disbursing as fast as desired, donors decided to channel
additional support to South Sudan through other mechanisms other than the MDTF-SS and this
created a shortfall in resources that could have been used to fund a second phase of SAFDP. In


                                                37
addition, even with the recovery in oil prices and the attendant improvement in government’s
fiscal position, the government was still not able to commit more resources to the project beyond
the US$1.8 million it contributed mainly because of its large resource outlay planned for the then
forthcoming referendum on secession. Therefore phase two of the project would not be funded
and the project would close on June 30, 2011.

Shortly after, MAF negotiated with the Netherlands government for support to the seed sector
including construction of border inspection posts, refurbishing a basic seed center and support to
community-based seed production enterprises. This was done outside the MDTF-SS framework.
Because of the need for donor coordination and harmonization as espoused in the JAM, the
Netherlands government channeled this support to the seed sector through the MDTF-SS. At that
time, the Bank was requested by the OC to prepare additional financing for SAFDP with
increased focus on the seed sector. On March 23, 2011, the additional financing was approved
but because the MDTF-SS parent fund was closing on December 31, 2011, the new closing date
for SAFDP was set at October 31, 2011 to leave sufficient lead time for closing the parent fund.

When the OC approved an extension of the MDTF-SS parent fund to December 2012 another
restructuring was undertaken to extend the SAFDP closing date to June 30, 2012 to allow
completion of planned activities. On June 27, 2012 (after the OC once again approved an
extension of the parent Trust Fund to June 30, 2013) another project extension was approved to
allow completion of civil works contracts that had been delayed by the slow movement of
construction materials to sites as a result of rains that had worsened the road conditions. During
that time, targets for some indicators were revised in light of availability of more reliable data.




                                                38
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

FAO, "FAO/WFP Crop and Food Security Assessment Mission to Southern Sudan." Special
   Report. www.fao.org/giews.
GOSS, SAFDP, Final Project Proposal for Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant (August 16, 2007).
GOSS/MAFCRD, Project Implementation Unit, Support to Agriculture and Forestry
   Development Project, Implementation Completion Report (July 2012).
GOSS/MAFCRD, Project Implementation Unit, Support to Agriculture and Forestry
   Development & Emergency Food Crisis Response Projects (July 2012).
GOSS/MAFCRD, Project Implementation Unit, Support to Agriculture and Forestry
   Development, Integrated Agricultural Research for Development: Report of Research
   Scientists for the period (March 2012).
GOSS/MOFEP, South Sudan Development Plan – 2011-2013, (June 20, 2011).
MARF, SAFDP, Project Implementation Manual, (June, 2010).
MDTF-SS, An Analysis of the Result to Date - outputs and Outcomes- (August 30, 2010).
Norwegian People’s Aid, End of Project Report, SAFDP, Small Grant Management (July 26,
   2012).
Norwegian People’s Aid, Small Grant Management (SGM) Project, End of Project Evaluation
   Consultancy, Final Report, (September, 2012).
World Bank, Grant Agreement, Additional Financing for Support to Agriculture and Forestry
   Development Project (March 23, 2011).
World Bank, Grant Agreement, Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project
   (December 18, 2007).
World Bank, Restructuring Paper, Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project
   (June 21, 2011).
World Bank, Restructuring Paper, Support to Agriculture and Forestry Development Project
   (June 27, 2011).
World Bank, SAFDP, Additional Financing Project Paper (March, 2011).
World Bank, SAFDP, Implementation Status and Results Report, Sequence 1 to 9 (2008-2012).
World Bank, SAFDP, Mid-Term Review (October 22 to November 22, 2009).
World Bank, United Nations, Government of Sudan and Sudan People’s Liberation Movement
   (SPLM), Joint Assessment Mission, Framework for Sustainable Peace,




                                            39
                                                                                                                  28˚E                                    30˚E                                                    32˚E       To                                        34˚E
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                             Khartoum
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                Renk

               0         50          100           150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                               SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                        Kadugli                                                                                      Ed Damazin
               0                50                     100                 150 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH
                                                                                          To                   To
                                                                                                            Babanusa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUDAN
                                                                                         Nyala

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paloich
                                                                Arab
                                                       Bahr el '
             10˚N              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10˚N
                              Nyala                                                                                                                                                                                                UPPER NILE
                                                                                                                               ABYEI                                                                                     Kodok

                                                                                                                                Abyei                                     l Ghazal
                                                                                                   NORTHERN                                                       Ba h r e                                    Malakal
                                                                                                    BAHR EL                                                Bentiu
                                                                                             Lol    GHAZAL

                                                                                                                                                    UNITY                                                                                                                       ETHIOPIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          So
                                                                                                                                 Jur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ba
                                                                                                        Aweil                                                                                                                                     Nasser




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                                                                                        ara
                                                                       Raga




                                                                                                                                                                               Bahr ez Z
                                       I                                                                                                      Meshra’
                                           r                       WESTERN                                                     Warrap                                                                                    Waat
                                               o
             8˚N                                   n            BAHR EL GHAZAL                                                                                                                   Ayod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8˚N
                                                        s                                                                               WARRAP
                                                            t
                                                                o
                                                                      po




                                                                       o
                                                                    n S
                                                                                                            Wau
                                                                                                                                                 N u b i a n                                                                                    Akobo
                                                                      e                                                                                                                                                                                         Ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JONGLEI                                         ob
                                                                                                                                        Ton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                           P




                    CENTRAL
                                                                                              go
                                                                           l




                                                                                                                                                                                      Shambe
                                                                               a




                                                                                                                                                    LAKES
                                                                                           Pon




                    AFRICAN
                                                                               t
                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                        Rumbek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pibor
                                                                                   a




                    REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                       u




                                                                                                                Sue




                                                                                                                                                                                                hite
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nil




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                       e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6˚N




              SOUTH SUDAN                                                                To
                                                                                       Djema
                                                                                                        Tambura
                                                                                                      Li Yubu                            WESTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASTERN
                                                                                                                                        EQUATORIA                                                       EQUATORIA                                     EQUATORIA
                         CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5˚N

                         STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                          Maridi                                                      JUBA                                               Kapoeta
                                                                                                                              Yambio
                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                          Torit
                                                                                                                                                                                                      t o n g
                         RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                 I m o                              M t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s .
                                                                                                     D.R. OF CONGO                                                                                                                    Kinyeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KENYA
                         MAIN ROADS                                                    4˚N                                                                                                                                                                                                             4˚N
                                                                                                                                                                              Yei                                                  (3187 m)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 38572R
                         RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nimule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
MARCH 2013




                                                                                                                       To
                         STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                             Isiro                                                                                                     UGANDA                                                 Nakuru

                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                 28˚E                                     30˚E                                                    32˚E                                                  34˚E
