Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4788 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Private Financial Development Policy Loan 2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General finance sector (30%); General industry and trade sector 
(30%); Central government administration (20%); Capital markets 
(10%); General energy sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P115958 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 28, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 20, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The second PFDPL is designed to further support the government in advancing its financial and private 
sector related reforms, building on the previous achievements under the PFDPL1, as well as on the 
reforms initiated under the earlier Bank-supported structural adjustment operations.  The proposed 
operation will also be complemented by another DPL operation aimed at supporting Serbia
뭩 Public 
Expenditure Management.  Further, the reforms supported under PFDPL2 are supposed to increase the 
GoS capacity in weathering the current global economic crisis. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objective of the second PFDPL is to support the reform actions in three policy areas: (i) enhancing 
business enabling environment to encourage new private sector investments; (ii) strengthening financial 
discipline by enforcing hard budget constraints and continued reform of enterprise sector and public 
utilities; and (iii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector through continued restructuring of 
state holdings in banking and insurance sectors, enhancing crisis preparedness, and encouraging 
development of the capital markets.   
3. Preliminary description 
 
The objective of the PFDPL2 will be achieved through supporting reforms carried out by the GoS which 
are summarized in three pillars: 
 
Pillar I: Enhancing business environment
:

Further simplification of business entry through implementation of a single agency approach to 
business registration;  

Improving the legal framework for strengthening corporate governance and facilitating business 
operations; 

Streamlining regulations of business operations and reducing business compliance costs;  

Simplifying the process of obtaining construction permits; 

Improving legal and institutional framework for competition; and 

Strengthening the legal framework for enforcement of contracts 
 
Page  2
Pillar II: Strengthening financial discipline: 

Improving financial discipline in the socially-owned enterprise (SOE) sector;  

Introducing regulatory framework for state aid allocation 

Privatization, restructuring, bankruptcy and forced liquidation of socially-owned enterprises; 

Continuing reforms in the energy sector; and 
 
Pillar III: Building a more efficient and stable financial secto
r

Restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks (SOB) and financial assets 

Enhancing Crisis Preparedness 

Strengthening insurance sector regulation and resolution regime;  

Strengthening capital markets regulatory and supervisory regime. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
All three pillars of the PFDPL2 have been
 
assessed for likely significant effects
 
on
the environment, 
forests and natural resources under the requirements of the World Bank's OP 8.60.  The principal 
concerns in the sectors supported under PFDPL arise from the handling of environmental liabilities (e.g. 
water, air and waste emissions) from past and current operations caused by socially-owned enterprises 
(SOEs),  being privatized or allowed to go bankrupt.  The project team will carefully review any 
potential adverse effect and propose adequate mitigation measures. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Irina Astrakhan 
Title: Lead Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-8243 
Fax: (202) 522-3687 
Email: iastrakhan@worldbank.org
 
