Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4845 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Private Financial Development Policy Loan 2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General finance sector (30%);General industry and trade sector 
(30%);Central government administration (20%);Capital markets 
(10%);General energy sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P115958 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the Republic of Serbia will be 
responsible for overall implementation of the proposed operation. 
Other key ministries and agencies responsible for the 
implementation of the operation will include: the Ministry of 
Economy and Regional Development (MOERD), Ministry of 
Mining and Energy (MME), Ministry of Trade and Services 
(MOTS), Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning 
(MOESP), Ministry of Justice (MoJ), Privatization Agency (PA), 
Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA), National Bank of Serbia (NBS), 
Serbian Business Registers Agency (SBRA), and Elektroprivreda 
Srbije (EPS) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 5, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 20, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
October 20, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Serbian economy grew strongly until 2008, fuelled by aggregate demand, and on the back of 
significant economic changes since 2000.
 
Real growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
averaged 6.2 percent in 2007 and 2008. Growth was fueled by high demand linked to a 
significant credit boom, expansionary fiscal policies, increases in real wages, and rapid increases 
in exports.  Output has risen by nearly 50 percent since 2000, as the corporate sector started to 
post profits and the banking sector was restructured.  The positive supply response also appears 
to reflect increases in productivity and output of recently privatized and 
de
novo 
firms, as 
evidenced by the particularly rapid rates of output growth in precisely those sectors which have 
recently undergone extensive privatization (e.g., steel, cement, retail trade, rubber, tobacco, 
dairy, sugar, and banking) or attracted foreign investors.  In 2008, FDI reached an estimated 5.4 
percent of GDP and the outflow of portfolio investment was equal to 0.3 percent of GDP.  Strong 
economic growth was accompanied by a widening current account deficit and increasing private 
sector debt.  The current account deficit reached 17.1 percent of GDP in 2008, up from 8.7 
percent in 2005.  High fiscal and current account deficits, further aggravated by rapid credit 
growth (mostly foreign-currency denominated) left Serbia vulnerable to the current global crisis. 
As in most emerging economies, medium-term growth prospects have been severely dampened, 
and the economy will be in recession in 2009.  Economic activity fell sharply in the final quarter 
of 2008 and slumped in the first few months of 2009 and external adjustment has started. Growth 
Page  2
in the last quarter declined to 2.8 percent (y-o-y) as compared to an average growth rate of 6.5 
percent in the previous three quarters. Estimates for the first quarter of 2009 are even more 
negative: industrial output is 16.9 percent lower and exports and imports declined by 33.5 and 
35.2 percent respectively (in dollar terms) in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the same 
period the previous year.  
Serbia’s growth is projected to decline to -2 percent of GDP in 2009 
and no growth in 2010.  Registered unemployment already increased by 4.6 percentage points 
since October 2008.   
In the area of business environment, the government has undertaken measures which should lead 
to removal of multiple administrative barriers for business development and continuous 
reduction of regulatory compliance costs.  The government has achieved a major breakthrough 
with the establishment of one-stop shop for business registration, reducing the number of days 
necessary for registering a business from 23 to 5.  Further, it has continued with streamlining and 
simplifying regulation of business activity through the comprehensive regulatory review 
exercise, the so-called “regulatory guillotine”.  Finally, the government is working on amending 
a
specific set of laws affecting business environment, namely:  Company Law, Competition Law, 
Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and Enforcement Law.   
Over the past seven years, a significant progress was achieved with implementation of 
privatization program and reduction of direct subsidies to socially- and state-owned enterprises.  
The government is committed to further strengthening the financial discipline in enterprise sector 
in order to ensure lasting fiscal adjustment.  In this regard, the government has also prepared a 
new Law on State Aid which will systemically regulate the subsidy policy.  Further, the 
government is working on strengthening the bankruptcy mechanism through the new Law on 
Bankruptcy which should significantly improve the enterprise sector reform.  Finally, the legally 
mandate privatization of socially owned enterprises, including restructuring, bankruptcy and/or 
forced liquidation of socially owned enterprises, as well as restructuring and in certain cases 
privatization of state owned companies is underway. 
In light of the current global crisis, the government and the National Bank of Serbia are working 
on preparing and implementing a crisis preparedness framework and continuing with the 
restructuring of state-owned banks.  Specifically, the focus is on the development of liquidity 
framework, further elaboration of the capital adequacy assessment, bank resolution framework 
enhancement, improvement of the Deposit Insurance payout functions, and implementation of 
the strategy on the merger of three state-owned banks.  In regards to the insurance sector, the 
government has prepared a new Motor Third Party Liability Law (MTPL) which should 
contribute to further development of insurance market.  Finally, in the area of capital markets the 
reforms are focused on overhauling the legal framework governing capital markets, and 
improving the mechanism for issuing treasury bills. 
2. Operation Objectives 
The objective of the second PFDPL is to support the reform actions in three policy areas: (i) 
enhancing business enabling environment to encourage new private sector investments; (ii) 
strengthening financial discipline by enforcing hard budget constraints and continued reform of 
enterprise sector and public utilities; and (iii) building a more efficient and stable financial sector 
through continued restructuring of state holdings in banking and insurance sectors, enhancing 
crisis preparedness, and encouraging development of the capital markets.   
Page  3
The objective of the PFDPL2 will be achieved through supporting reforms carried out by the 
GoS which are summarized in three pillars: 
 
Pillar I: Enhancing business environment
:
·
Further simplification of business entry through implementation of a single agency 
approach to business registration;  
·
Improving the legal framework for strengthening corporate governance and facilitating 
business operations; 
·
Streamlining regulations of business operations and reducing business compliance costs;  
·
Simplifying the process of obtaining construction permits 
·
Improving legal and institutional framework for competition; and 
·
Strengthening the legal framework for enforcement of contracts 
Pillar II: Strengthening financial discipline: 
·
Improving financial discipline in the socially-owned enterprise (SOE) sector;  
·
Introducing regulatory framework for state aid allocation 
·
Privatization, restructuring, bankruptcy and forced liquidation of socially-owned 
enterprises; 
·
Continuing reforms in the energy sector; and 
Pillar III: Building a more efficient and stable financial secto
r
·
Enhancing Crisis Preparedness 
·
Restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks and financial assets 
·
Strengthening insurance sector regulation and resolution regime; 
·
Strengthening capital markets regulatory and supervisory regime. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The second PFDPL is designed to support the government in advancing its financial and 
private sector related reforms, building on the previous achievements, most recently under 
the PFDPL1, as well as on the reforms initiated under the earlier Bank-supported operations 
in the period from 2002-2006, such as the three prior private and financial sector adjustment 
credits (PFSAC-I, PFSAC-II and PPFDPC-I), and the structural adjustment credits (SAC and 
SAC-II).  The proposed operation will also be complemented by another DPL series aimed at 
support
ing Serbia’s Public Expenditure Management.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The full IBRD loan is expected to be withdrawn in a single tranche of an amount equivalent 
to US$100 million  
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the overall implementation of the proposed 
operation and for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries 
and agencies. The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the 
proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the GoS program by using the short 
term and overall program outcomes outlined in the Policy Matrix. 
Page  4
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The proposed PFDPL2 will (i) improve the business environment so as to facilitate start-ups and 
stimulate new investments, thus economic growth and job creation; (ii) minimize fiscal outlays 
through substantially
 
reducing direct and indirect subsidies, complete the privatization of 
socially-owned enterprises, and further restructure  state enterprises and public utilities; and (iii) 
improve efficiency and
 governance of the government’s holdings in the banking and insurance 
sectors, strengthen crisis preparedness and sector resilience, and improve the regulatory and 
supervisory regimes so as to reduce vulnerabilities. 
 
Risks 
 
The macroeconomic risks remain substantial and are related to macroeconomic policy and 
institutional capacity.  Key challenges in this regard pertain to the impact of the economic crisis, 
as well as budget and current account deficits.  Further, relatively weak institutional capacity 
including for fiduciary management raises concerns including on internal controls. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
The reforms proposed under this operation are not expected to cause negative poverty and social 
impacts.  While the fraction of the poor below the poverty line declined by half between 2004 
and 2008, the growth slowdown associated with economic crisis is expected to increase the 
poverty rates.  In fact, according to the data from the most recent household budget survey (HBS 
2008) even a 5 percent decrease in the incomes of those above the poverty line will increase 
poverty by 1.4 percentage points, or roughly 90,000 more people.  Since the proposed PFDPL2 
has a strong anti-crisis focus and is supporting specific precautionary measures it should help 
mitigate the impact of the crisis.  Most importantly, this operation will be complemented by 
PEDPL whose entire Pillar III “Strengthening social assistance and protecting the most 
vulnerable” focuses on reforms that should significantly mitigate any negative poverty and social 
impacts. 
Environment Aspects 
The major pillars of the PPFDPL2 have been screened with respect to the potential ramifications 
on the environment, forests and natural resources under the requirements of World Bank OP 
8.60.  The principal concerns in the sectors supported under PFDPL series arise from the 
handling of environmental liabilities (e.g. water, air and waste emissions) from past and current 
operations caused by socially- owned enterprises (SOEs), being privatized or allowed to go 
bankrupt. The project team has carefully reviewed the possible effects of PFDPL series on the 
environment and natural resources, concluding that the operation is unlikely to have any 
significant negative effects.  In fact, the resolution of socially and state owned enterprises whose 
operations were contributing to pollution and environmental degradation will have a positive 
impact on environment, as in most cases the existing environmental norms have not been 
Page  5
adequately enforced due to political economy of transition.  Since the privatization process began 
in early 2000s, Serbia has made significant progress in integrating environmental concerns in the 
privatization process, and private enterprises are more rigorously monitored, while the 
government is obliged to remediate any damages to environment caused prior to privatization.  
Finally, the team will continue to closely monitor all developments, and work with the 
government on mitigating any potential risks.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Irina Astrakhan 
Title: Lead Private Sector Development Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-8243 
Fax: (202) 522 3687 
Email: iastrakhan@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
