ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                        AWorlJ Fre o! Pnvenrk 
*' Ip.f,nth    n
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/09/2002                             AA   Xfn
4 5U I v
Section I - Basic Information                                  IJIIIO     WM0)02
A. Baic Pro;ect Da"i"
Country: ANGOLA                               Project ID: P072205
Project: Economic Management TA              I T ask T eam Leader: Jorge Araujo
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 7, 2002     | IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 29, 2002            [=IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Managing U Jnit- AFTP1                        Sector: General public admintration seetor(!00%) 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Economic statistics (P); modeling and l
Status: Lending                              I vrcasting I() IacreOnomic mnager,,ent (S);ii
Public expenditure (S); financial mngmt &
I ________________________________________________  I procurem ent (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The key objective of the project is to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate sound
analysis and to implement sound policies in areas which are critical to the design and
ip.l.e. tatLiLWXX   I of   vey ReductiLvn StL1dategy I aper. k(iP ), as wellI as ta LV11VUiU111L1-V1I
planning more generally, including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system; the formulation and monitoring of a sound Public Investment
Program (PIP); and the establishment of a more transparent and efficient public finance
framework. In addition, EMTA will follow-up on the successful FINSEC project by helping
com.plete work on the estabilshment of A-ngola's payment system at BNA, another key area for
greater transparency and for greater efficiency in the conduct of monetary policy. As such, the
project will focus on the key economic policy implementation agencies (MFNPLAN, MFNFIN,
BNA). The project is expected to last up to four years from the date of effectiveness, and as such
it is expected to parallel the preparation and implementation of the measures described in a Full
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (F-PRSP).
More specifically, each of the four project components will support efforts by the Government
which are either ongoing or about to start, and which are expected to have a positive impact in
the design and implementation of a more solid PRSP:
* The Planning component (MINPLAN) will support the continuation previous efforts at
establishing methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring of sectoral and
provincial plans and the PIP.



2
ISUS
* The Statistics component (INE/MINPLAN) 'Will support the implementation of the
rprpntlyi-nrpnnrprd Five-YVPer P1 n fnr Stnticticrc
* The Public Finance component (MINFIN) will support MINFIN's Program for the
Modernization of the Public Finance Management     Process.
* The Payment Systems component (BNA) will continue supporting the full implementation of
Angola's payment system.
The ultimate development objective of this project is to facilitate the establishment of the
appropriate policy and governance framework for sustained medium-term growth, in the wake of
the transition from civil war to peace.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Objectives
The project will assist in four areas discussed below by providing assistance in five specific types of
activities: (a) consuitancy for technical assistance and studies; (b) dissemination of information through
publications and workshops; (c) equipment; (d) local training and (e) training on-the-job.
Each of the four project components will support efforts by the Government which are.either ongoing or
about to start, and which are expected to have a positive impact in the design and implementation of a
more solid PRSP.
Proijet Comnpnent 1 - PLANNING (AMNPLAN)- the princinpl enIl nf thic rnmnnnent is to)
strengthen the process of public investment formulation, execution and monitoring in Angola,
soJMlJjiI6-up kil wrk uniu,r "ay aL IVIIII1N. 1T11i bopoIIlent wIIL vim proviCIC aSSi1a1,aIC III Ltlh
preparation of methodologies for harmonization of sectoral and provincial strategies, in monitoring the
implementation of the Public investment Management and Programming System (SiGiP, tne Portuguese
acronym), in monitoring and auditing the execution of the Public Investment Program (PIP). Specifically,
the MINPLAN would be assisted in:
(i) Preparation of Methodologies for Harmonization of Sectoral/Provincial Strategies - will assist on
the development of methodologies to harmonize sectoral and provincial strategies with the overall
Government's Medium-Term Program, and to support training on PIP methodologies for staff at sector
ministries and nrovincial governments.
(ii) Monitoring of Implementation of SIGIP  - will support the implementation of the Public Investment
Management and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese acronym), developed by M1NPLAN with
techniral assistance from other sources (or donors). The main objectives of the SIGIP are: (i) formulation
and implementation of a public investment management and programming system, (ii) articulation of the
F IP  II with th'le Government's program andu annual SItate buduuget, (iIii) articulat01ioln U Land coordinLaUti Uo pUUIIc.
investment at sectoral and provincial level and (iv) improvement in the technical capacity for preparation
and execution of public investment programs. This sub-component will assist the monitoring process of
the SIGIP by adopting clearly identified and easily monitorable performance criteria and providing
training to the staff in charge of the process.
(iii) Monitoring and Auditing of the Execution of the Public Investment Program  -will focus on the
financial and operational execution of the Public Investment Program. Financial monitoring will be based
on the quarterly budget execution reports prepared by MINFIN, with which close coordination should be



3
ISDS
sought. From an operational standpoint, such monitoring will need to be based on a clear set of
performance criteria, that will need to be nut together as nart of this assistance. Activities should also
involve subsequent training of the staff in charge of assessing the execution of the PIP.
(iv) Other areas of support to SIGIP and PIP - Other activities are particularly relevant to the key project
objective of strengthening the articulation between short and medium-term pianning and financing
instruments, and, from an institutional point of view, between NI4NPLAN and MINFIN, in particular: (a)
Linking the PIP and the Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario - the PIP is .intended to become a major
component of a MTFS, and as such close coordination should take place between MINFIN and
MINPLAN. Through the PIP, investment limits - on the basis of internal and external resources - over
the medium term can be made known to MINFIN, and incorporated in the spending plan of a
medium-term fiscal scenario. Support to this activity will be, provided through the MTFS sub-component
of the MiNFIN -omponent; (b) Linking the S!GIP and the SIGFE - Establishing the institutional and
IT-related links between SIGIP and the SIGFE - Angola's Integrated Financial Management Information
Syyse  - is essenial f0r successful coordlinatio 0 1- VCWI;e1 pianingiir andu finalC1r,cn  111iL1trur.lent, andU should
be seen as the basis for integrating the PIP in a future MTFS. Support to this activity wvill be provided
through the "Compiementary Actions" sub-component of the MI-NFtIN component.
Project Component 2 - STATISTICS (INE): Regular economic statistics play an important role in the
statistical system, both in its own right and as an essential source for National Accounts. The component
has been designed so as to finance a set of complementary actions in support of the national statistical
system. It is expected that such actions will have the most impact in quickly generatina the critical
information base that is necessary for jump-starting the economy, while also addressing the problems
char2cterizing the current statistical system.
Thiscompnentwil assis ireapnsttsisiAnoabfincgarneofcivies whi_ch are
I.a Uft   '...SttjjJFMI. IL   VJfiI Uaa1aL  "II I tv"IIIFIiIr,  LaLCILIaLI%4  III r11I6,U1a  V_Y  iniai* mai   a ian  u Li a%aiv ILI ~ VVIIII  atI L
designed to strengthen the institutional, technical and financial framework for sustainable production and
policy-use of key micro and macro levei information by the instituto Nacionai de Estatistica (kiNE). Tne
main goals are: (a) the strengthening of INE by providing technical assistance for preparation and
implementation of a strategic planning exercise and corporate plan for the Institute; provision of training,
technical assistance, capacity building and incremental operating costs for the establishment of Regional
Statistical Offices in the Provinces and short term training for improvement of the human resource base
of INE and (b) Improvement of collection, analysis and dissemination of data by providing technical
assistance to improve the production of Foreign Trade, Manpower and Labor, Balance of Payments and
Price Statistics: a pre-agreed cycle of household surveys and related training to be conducted by INE:
technical assistance to start work on preparing the census cartographic update and priority policy studies
and analysis of welfare using quantitative and qualitative data. Specifically  E wIN _ould be assisted in:
fij) uvu iurnwu Accounis nuru I rude SiutistiCS  - thius sub-cmUIIIpViIL aidmIs Lo assisL in setting up modern
systems of generating national accounts (the implementation of National Accounts statistics in Angola
will be based on the international framework SNA93, System of National Accounts 1993) and to improve
the exhaustiveness and quality of the information in external trade statistics, in particular the coverage
and quality of statistics on imports. Other activities related to national accounts are covered in the
surveys activities: production surveys, survey of establishments and quarterly industrial surveys. (see
table 1- Annex 2)
(ii) Sectoral Statistics - this sub-component will assist in developing the capacity to generate key sectoral
statistics. TTnder th WD rdt h  olwn   ie sectors will be covered (I) rduA..i- -an Health; (2)
ELmLIyLIen. tIIULI l1; ILarn W age Ul(3   L11 ot II ctionai nj It tL III  nd %.UV%.1LU. kn) ULUI.,LiUH aiiu Ion-a;iu, (5Z)
Employment and Wages; (3) Social protection and justice; (4) Industry and industrial production; (5)



4
iSDS
construction; (6) population and demographic statistics. More specifically, INE will elaborate statistics
on central and local government nublic finance needed to implement the SNA93 production accounts: it
will establish a system for demographic and social statistics which will provide information to monitor
and anay   both  the provision of -onAna- b-y te siat'.  1ctors- in the soety as ve11 as the 1living
mit  im;t.   tj.i LI. jit  Oli  it OUVI S   A) Ll. 3jf - -t.LJi - - -i -i-- -LAtiY, U  LW IVT  .i  15 -  -Il . lT &l
conditions of the population; and it will improve the coverage, quality and timeliness of the information
collected on education and health sectors as well as improve the analyses and dissemination of education
and health statistics.
(iii) Household Surveys and Sample Frame Update - this sub-component will update the sampling frame
and cartographic base for some provinces in Angola. The updated base will be used to (a) create a
sampling program in support of the judicial inquest for assessing family makeup and adjunct family
members; (b) to support the creation of a future "General Census of the Population" and (c) to increase
technology transfer and to provide state of the art in this field for INE. This sub-component will produce
two main results: an Integrated System of Household Surveys and Industrial and Establishment Surveys.
kin LII, 111; t, tIIV, kVLUpUlL?U11L will assist Lle salrtlatistical oUIilce III CUlOUuu.tiL1-, LiIc Iuss0Win J , sI U1 v e.
production survey, a series of core welfare indicators monitoring surveys (CWIQ), harmonization of
employment survey, and income and expenditure. On the second, the focus of the surveys will be to
assess financial flows and assets of establishments, a key input into national accounts.
(iv) Information and Technology -this sub-component will assist in setting up a modern information
network as well as state of the art technology to generate accurate statistics; it will financing technical
assistance and equipment for the establishment of (a) Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and (b)
other information technology including live database. The  GIS  will generate information that is
(v) Poverty and PnoP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies -this sub-component wiii finance priority
studies in the following areas: statistical notes, short-term economic indicators; demographic and social
indicators; statistical reviews; and priority living conditions and poverty studies. During the project, the
following issues are a priority: (a) to establish a program of annual monitoring of poverty and PRSP
policy measures and indicators; (b) to build capacity to monitor statistical trends based upon time series
analysis; (c) to provide data for external analysis and studies and towards the end of the period to build
capacity for analysis of economic and social statistics.
Project Component 3 - PUBLIC FINANCE (MINFIN):       This component will support MINFIN'S
progra... for the-  4 Modrr-zaio  of the- Du.litc;, Finac  Managmnt Process. A n,aIlnarfnrmna publim
finance management will promote better resource mobilization and allocation, better use of resources,
an improvement in expenditure prioritization and in financial management.it will also strengthenI the
Government's ability to gear public finance instruments towards poverty reduction and growth, by means
of preparing the ground for a medium-term fiscal scenario which would be a rolling and evolving
financial counterpart of the Government's medium-term plan and the PRSP (a medium-term plan for
2003-2006, that will encompass the PRSP is currently under preparation).
The selection of areas for Bank assistance through the EMTA project should be based on two criteria:
comparative advantage and strategic focus. In terms of comnarative advantage; in princinle the Rank
could assist the Government in most of the areas for which there are perceived gaps, as pointed out in the
rcn peAr,g.'a DJ   ;,.  ,   .ra,,.hor  (Worn.ild Bani, _ _ 20A). In terr.s of strategi
recent p~apcri f glfl -4JtUS I UUttL,  i tlfL4Lc   r1 (lUS. vvtj  n   v 51 ui iJu iilt, .... ilhi'SJ, Vh.TJtJ.J l~ii U Aa1  M.1 aLfULt1.~
focus, the Bank should concentrate in areas more clirectly related to its corporate goal of helping client
countries reduce poverty and unleash market-friendly economic growti processes.



5
iSDS
In practical terms, assistance to the Government in the area of public finances should minimally deal with
the following themes: (a) Support the Government in the preparation of the public finance aspects of its
PRSP, notably stressing the links between public expenditure management and prioritization, on the one
handn, and povenrt reduction, on the other; ( ,b) Supportthe Government in strengthening the links be,teen
its planning andfinancing instruments, most notably between the State budget, the Economic and Social
Plan, and the Public Investment Program and (c) Support ihe G3overnment in graduully mnoving towurds
policy decision-making supported by a medium-term fiscal scenario exercise  one in which revenues
(especiaily originated from the oil sector) would benefit from greater stability and predictability and
expenditures would be geared towards facilitating the achievement of PRSP goals.
Only with a broad, but not necessarily exhaustive coverage, could the EMTA credit appropriately impact
on the three wide themes outlined above. In light of this, MINFIN would be assisted in:
(i) Internal Control (INF) - This sub-component will help the National Inspectorate of Finance to become
an effective internal control agency, by suppor its legal and administrative reformn process and
strengthening its capacity to implement its work program. INF is the technical support agency within
MINFIN in cnarge of carrying out financiai controi activities of aii budget units across the public
administration as well as of the State-owned enterprises. In collaboration with the National Tax
Directorate (DNI), the INF can also conduct financial control activities (mostly restricted to tax issues) of
private companies. INF was created in 1958, twenty seven years before Independence, and to a great
extent its work program still reflects legislation passed during colonial times. According to the Budget
Framework Law ( Law 9/97     - Lei Quadro do OGE ), the internal control function is to be
"institutionalized" within MINFIN, requiring complementary regulation through a Council of Ministers
Decree. which was never nassed. The key legal document defining the resnonsibilities of the INF is
MINFTN's own Charter (Estatuto Organico, Council of Ministers' Decree 4/98). On the basis of Decree
4!98, fKIC has initiated -ork n thek . r..- ration ofi drato regulations for itself, -vhich represents the- firt
major effort in conducting a legal and institutional reform of MINFIN's intemal control agency since its
creation in ;9s . EiviMtA will suporf iiNr s iiuugiing reifriii process.
If/ Ii fIe St aLte IVUnLF-iLf La t1Cial1SSetS Jiv`aragwitn (DLigVLLf/ - The1 key obJ L.. ject UI o1f11 tsUUbcoIponenIIL Is LU
help the National Directorate for the Management of State Non-Financial Assets (DNPE) ensure that
quality information on the non-financial assets of the State is generated in order to increase coverage and
accuracy of the General State Accounts (Conta Geral do Estado, CGE). Indeed, lack of timely and
accurate data on public debt and on State physical assets inventory prevents the production of reliable
"assets and liabilities accounting(contabilidade patrimonial). The key inputs from DNPE to the CGE
are infornation on the stock of State non-financial assets (balanco patrimonial) as well as on yearly
changes in that stock (balanco das variacoes patrimoniais).
(iii) Pnhfio DePht MarnncrgmPnt (nNWTL This siih-cornronent wi1 spinnort the, Nationa! Directorate of
Treasury in improving public debt management, control and recording. Recent discussions between the
f-ovc..nment anA the YIMFL higligte the urgen nee --- ---ov puli (etena and Anenl debt
Il.UVi  Ii~I  iU  LIil.  IlVlI  111911119IiLL.U  1.ii..  UIr,~;IIL  iItI,U  LV  IIIIjJIUVV..  PUUIIi..  IyAL-,riiai  aniu  H CIIii.i  al;  Ui..
management in Angola. In particular, the authorities were advised to establish without delay a Debt
Management Unit in the Treasury, with authority to sign ioan agreements for aii public entities, inciuding
public companies and banks.
Until recently, most external debt management work was done under the Direccao de Capitais e
Transaccoes Correntes (DTC) at the BNA . With support from another IDA credit (FINSEC), an
UNCTAD-designed Debt Management System, the DFMAS, was installed at BNA, although it is still in
experimental phase. The interface of DFMAS with MINFIN and BNA is yet to be established. In March



6
ISUS
2001, the Government created a Public Debt Committee, headed by the Minister of Finance and having
as additional members the Minister of Planning and the Governor of BNA_ The day-to-day niiblic debt
management activities have been mostly assumed, since then, by the Executive Commission of the Public
Deb.t Cornm. itte-e, led. by the Nati-na T--     fnasJrM  Directrae DNT.TCBA stil! handles external debt
ta-tn  ~jiiiititt~  tt   -y  -u.  1,Lu,Juta  J uI .a3U.y LflI%.%I  U~Lu S.L  k~l.  IA J. AIS  ~I S J.  I  ~a iNf  t  IAII U U%. I ,It t Ut J.Lt
recording and accounting. The Executive Commission is viewed as a transitional arrangement, as the
Government is studying two options: either to transfer aii puDiic debt management activities to DNT, or
to establish an autonomous public debt management agency that reports directly to the Minister of
Finance. As part of its efforts to rationalize public debt management, the Government has also started
work on a draft Public Debt Framework Law.
(iv) Fiscal Revenues (DNI) -This sub-componentwill focus in increasing reliability of revenue
projections, in the implementation of the Financial Model (currently under preparation in the context of
the ongoing Oil Sec-tor Diagnostic Study, commissioned by MiNFiN to the consulting firm KPMG) and
in strengthening aspects of tax legislation and administration. The National Tax Directorate (Direccao
XI :          A_                 A              1A f*_ --\Tl _A l _C|ArA_+l_ __-  -A As.-AA -.. _A _  A+x._ x.._- f 
1Na.cUIlall Ue 1ImlpUsLUb, DJ1N1) lb Ipb31UbIUIl lUI II UV,lgll allU UAUlULlUI UI LllU La,&A pUIILy dIIU LU Lally UUL
administration, collection and control of revenue. In addition, the DNI prepares the revenue side of the
budget, including oil taxes (based on estimated production and price per barrei) and non-oil taxes. iDA
assistance to DNI through the EMTA credit will provide support to the ongoing tax reform process by
focusing on two key policy objectives: (i) to help increase reliability of oil and non-oil revenue
projections, thereby strengthening the Government's capacity to produce the revenue side of an eventual
Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario; and (ii) to help reduce dependency on oil taxes by strengthening the
Government's capacity to collect non-oil tax revenues, through punctual interventions geared towards
improving tax legislation and administration. Assistance in these areas will be very closely coordinated
with the Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF.
Specifically, this sub-componentw ill finance consult-ancies -a  hlp i...mprove the quality oif rjections
and monitoring of tax revenues in general, and to help assess trends in revenue collection; it will support
the implementation of the Financiai iviodel and it wiii support revision of current legislation in lignt of
the ongoing tax reform; it will help strengthen revenue assessment and taxpayers' compliance by
reviewing existing routines in the conduct of tax inspections (including on-the-job training of tax
inspectors).
(v) Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations (DNI)  -This sub-component will finance the assessment of
current conditions and analysis of policy options. With the peace process, it is unavoidable that Angola
will need to face the issue of intergovernmental relations (including fiscal decentralization) in the near
future. Therefore, it will be necessary to review and reformulate the existing intergovernmental relations
cs,ct,m. n.vth a view at establishing a -ftiona! fiscal structure at the territorial Ip_e!I clearly,  ..t.r.nngn
the responsibilities of local and provincial authorities over expenditure allocations and tax collection
matters. Tax  sharing, responsibilities over expenditures and  provision  of public services,
intergovernmental fiscal transfers e and the possibility of access to credit markets are essential themes,
still in need of treatment under a consistent legal framework.
(vi) Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario - This sub-component will focus on an assessment of the conditions
and steps required for the implementation of a MTFS. The MTFS can be a very useful instrument with
which important development issues under the responsibility of MINFIN can be addressed. On the
medium-term eynenditure qid,e much can he done to gear the comnosition of nubhlir exnendituures
increasingly towards poverty reduction, by consistently improving social sector spending; to reduce the
uugcLa-ly biurden representLeU uy UdbUL servic, by mUans VI t. dLesig aniu du0ptluid ui a IlMeUlAIII-ternm
oriented public (external and internal) debt policy and strategy; and to ensure that a Public Investment



7
iSDS
Program consistent with Angola's medium-term reconstruction needs will be adequately funded and
executed. On the medium-term revenue side, much progress can be made in devising mechanisms to
protect the State revenues from oil-price volatility, and in improving the efficiency and transparency in
the management of oil tax revenues and one-of sig,nai-re bonuses.
This subcomnponent will support the realization of analytical work to assess: (i) Angola's ievei of
preparedness to move in the next few years to a medium-term approach to expenditure planning and
revenue projection; and (ii) the practical actions required to design and implement a medium-term fiscal
scenario consistent with the PRSP and the Medium-Term Plan.
(vii) Training (INFORSEF) - This sub-component will help design and implement a training program for
MlNFIN, in conjunction with its various National Directorates and the National Inspectorate of Finance.
It is expected to cover the costs of trainers, preferably foreign, as well as the conts of of training activities
to be conducted in the provinces. INFORSEF, MINFIN's train,ing institute, will be the vehicle through
.wh:IE  AI- 13--A   --- AA -l: ._A+IT\rT ..,-   :_  -__~  -   :FX1 'J_  '1v  _ :  : 1.
VlVtI.UI L1.alir,CallN WIa UC;IIVII t UPPUI LU IVIII'41IN 115 Z IC.UVbL lUr strengtning tlh capa.Y Uil I' iIIumalln
resources in terms of facilities; the institute is fully adequate to conduct in-house training, which shall be
the focus of the Bank's assistance.
(viii) Other Specific Areas  -since many of the actions of the Modemization Program for the
Management of Public Finance are still in the process of being more precisely delineated, timed and
costed, IDA Bank proposed that funds be earmarked to activities to be defined under three broad areas:
(a) comnlementary activities to assistance underway in the context of the SIGFE: (b) activities related to
State procurement reform, to be decided in the context of the ongoing Country Procurement Assessment
and (c) assistance in the implementation of recomm.endations emerging from the ongoing Integrated
Fiduciary Assessment, and not contemplated either by EMTA or by the ongoing assistance directly hired
uy IVMIINFLIN.
Project Component 4 - PAYMENT SYSTEM (BNA):         Direct benefits from an efficient payment
system are numerous and include inter alia, efficient use of the liquidity available, better definition of
monetary policy via better data, more efficient monetary policy implementation, limitation of frauds,
reduction of transaction costs, better management of risks, support of de-dollarization.This component
will provide assistance in the implementation of the Real Time Gross Settlement System, by supporting
the acquisition and installation of the RTGS equipment and software and by helping ensure the physical
safety of BNA processing centers. This component will permit the adoption of adequate risk control
measures, settlement mechanism,s and processes, which will allow cross border links with other
settlement systems namely with SADC countries; the provision of services and payment instruments
auapteU Lt impolrant sectors ofI LIIth AnlrvianI eAcIIunioy, wiLhi aii 111 toIIVL, LI) U l.10 tr %%A.IVII.. JUIIUn Lianisifei
from the payer; and provision of simple payment services to all, even in less economically attractive
regions.
Components:
Planning
Statistic
Public Finance
Payment System/RTGS
PIU



8
iSDS
I A .d Project L ocation: (Geographir location, infnrmrntitn ahbot the key environmenta! and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical naLUal hitaILtLs, Ut a ally oLIIV1 sUILUIUI a oU ildliy sensiLiVe airet.)
B. Check Environmental Classiifcation: C (Not Required)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered                             _______.___
r LF>y PIII7aI Ly
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     O Yes * No _     TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      1    Yes * No   0 TBD
INatural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              1 0Yes * No     OTBD    |
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes * No    O TBD
IPat P  n-n,--nt (tP A foa                                    , v-   M -i-i  Tan
I  .f.  i    IL IQ.SI  T. £-                                 . I  . '-'  _'  s
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No    0 TBD|
I Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes * No    0 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                 C Yes *No     O TBD
[Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            OYes * No     O TBD|
I Proiects in Internationa! Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7 50)           VcJ Y  * No  0 TBD|
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on LCthe iapt.tct areasU
Secior .: 1- Ke Sfgad*seard Their Manage..er.t
Ject-lIUI 'IL IXxy ~anigunla issues armz I UIVI~I 11i UV1V
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long tern impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A



9
iSDS
IT.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, withI an emphasis on potet i.ta!!y ated1~LV` pFeple.
TheL EMA  credit vvill 3uppol. VI rLI ""F IllSVA.dIVll3illls  v y 1AthLe  oJ'.%J Va prULL o
its PRSP process for issues of relevance to the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ]S. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
r I S2. - One or more csfea,-rii nrpolie are trcYcYgrPd, kut effets nre limitPd in thpir imnact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
rA   -1 I I   xT  A  _ At 
LAJ a.). 1NU) salguaru iwUesv
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
LEviro, meriltalAssessmen/AlfyNI/.IviarlageetlnlI            Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A proiects)
[ResettlementActionPlan/Framework:                  .         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-countrv" disclosure                             Not Anplicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:               Expected       Actual
rante of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Annlicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of suDmission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Ap 1pLcale
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                  Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
! Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable



10
iSDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country udsclosure of any of te above documents is noi expected, please explain wny.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Jorge Araujo                                July 3, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                      june 28, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Philippe H. Le Houerou                       July 3, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
5AMUCH ------  FEEDBACK      srra MA5  ___ j  *f



