                                            Documentof                                          39795
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                        PROJECTPAPER

                                                 ONA

                               PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURING

                                               OF THE

     ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                              FORTHE

                                   REPUBLIC OFANGOLA


                                            MAY 8,2007




SouthernAfrica CountryDepartment2
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may beusedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank's authorization.


                                   DATA SHEET FOR

                                   PROJECT PAPER


Date: May 8,2007                               Task Team Leader: Olivier Lambert
Country: REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA                    Sector Manager: Helga Muller
Project Name: Economic Management TA           Country Director: Michael Baxter
(EMTA)                                         Environmentalcategory: C
Project ID: PO72205
Borrower: Republic of Angola
Responsible agency: Ministryo f Planning
Revised actual & estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
  FY            F Y 0 4    FY 05      FY 06      FY 07     FY 08      FY 09    FY 10
  Annual            1.91       3.40      0.98       3.43      8.80       3.42       0.26
  Cumulative         1.91      5.3 1      6.29      9.72      18.52    21.94      22.20




Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?    o Yes   X No
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                               oYes oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              oYes XNo

Revisedproject development objective.

EMTA supports GOA'Sefforts to improve efficiency andtransparency ofpublic resource
management, by improvingthe institutional framework and building capacity inrelevant
public institutionsto articulate and implement public investmentand financial policies
and processes.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o

Board/Effectiveness conditions: none
Dated covenant: Operations Manual updated before June 30, 2007

                             RevisedFinancine Plan (US$m.\
                   Source                         Local     I  Foreign    I    Total
Borrower                                               3.19 I        0.55            3.74
IDA                                                    2.77         15.69           18.46
Others                                                   --_           ---
Total                                                  5.96         16.24


                                       Republicof Angola
         EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject
                                             (Cr 3744-ANG)
                                                   .
                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS



I INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT                                                                                                                   1
I1    BACKGROUND AND REASONSFOR RESTRUCTURING                                                                  .........................  1
I11
 ...                                                        ......................................................................

      PROPOSEDCHANGES                    .......................................................................................         4
I V
  .   ANALYSIS     .............................................................................................................         9
V     EXPECTED OUTCOMES                       ...................................................................................         9
V I
  ..  BENEFITSAND RISKS                  .....................................................................................           10




                                                    Annexes


Annex 1:  Status o f Implementationas of March 31. 2007 ............................................                                     12
Annex 2:
Annex 3A: Initial Performance Indicators and Status...................................................... 20
          Results Framework and Monitoring ..............................................................                                15

Annex 3B: ProposedNew Performance Indicators..........................................................                                   21
Annex 4A: Activities Dropped.........................................................................................                    22
Annex 4B: New Activities................................................................................................                 23
Annex 4C: AdjustedActivities.........................................................................................                    24
Annex 5:  Detailed Descriptiono f Restructured Components .......................................                                        25
Annex 6A: Impact of Proposed Changes on Components ...............................................                                       29
Annex 6B: Impact ofProposed Changes on Disbursement Categories ...........................                                               29
Annex 7 : ImplementationPlan2007-2009....................................................................                                30
Annex 8:  Project Procurement Planning2007-2009 .....................................................                                    38




                      Vice President:                   Obiageli K          .Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:                    Michael Baxter
                    Sector Manager:                     Helga Muller
                        Team Leader:                    Olivier Lambert

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                      (As ofFebruary28,2007)
                                   US$1.OO =Angolan kwanza 80.06
                                   1Angolan kwanza=US$0.0124

                                               Fiscal Year
                                      January 1to December 31

                               ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AfDB        African Development Bank
AML         AntiMoney Launderingand relatedprevention measures
AUPEC       Aberdeen University Petroleum Economic Consultancy
BNA         Banco Nacional deAngola (Angola Central Bank)
DFID        UK's Departmentfor International Development
DMFAS       DebtManagementFinancial and Accounting System
DNI         DirecqZo Nacional dos Impostos (National Tax Directorate)
DNPE        DireGLio Nacional do Patrimdnio do Estado (National NonFinancialAssets Directorate)
DSI         DirecqZo da SupewisZo das Institucoes Financeiras (Bank Supervision Department)
D O         Development Objective
EC          European Commission
ECP         Estratkgia de Combate a Pobreza (Poverty Reduction Strategy)
EMTA        Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
FINSEC      Financial Institutions Modernization Project
FY          Fiscal Year
GAI         Gabinete de Auditoria Interna (Internal Audit Department)
GOA         Government o f Angola
IDA         International Development Association
IEG         IndependentEvaluation Group
IFBA        Instituto de FormaqGo Bancaria deAngola (Banking Training Institute o f Angola)
IFMS        Integrated financial management system
M F         International Monetary Fund
INE         Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (National Institute of Statistics)
INF         InspecCEO Nacional das Finanqas (Finance Inspection Department)
I S N       Interim Strategy Note
MDGs        MillenniumDevelopment Goals
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
Minfin      MinistryofFinance
Minplan     MinistryofPlanning
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIP         Public InvestmentProgram
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RTGS        Real Time Gross Settlement System
SADC        SouthernAfrica Development Community
SIGFE       SistemaIntegrado de GestZoFinanceira do Estado (State IFMS)
SIGIP/SIPIP SistemaIntegrado de GestZodos Investimentos PGblicos (Public Investments Integrated
            Management System)
SDR         Special DrawingRights
SNA93       UnitedNations system o fnational accounts
UNDP        UnitedNations Development Program
USAID       United StatesAgency for International Development
US$         United StatesDollar

I. INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT

1.      This ProjectPaper seeks the approval ofthe ExecutiveDirectors to introducethe
following changes inthe Angola, Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
(EMTA), Cr. No. 37440-ANG (P072205) including accompanying amendments to the
project's legal documents.

2.      With a reformulation o fthe project development objectives (DO), the proposed
changes are meant to: (a) clarify the D O andresults that EMTA i s supporting, (b) modify
the projectperformance indicators to ensure alignment with results by dropping some and
adding newperformance indicators, (c) adapt activities plannedto the current situationby
dropping activities and adding a few ones, (d) reallocate the Credit, and (e) provide an
adequatetime frame for seeking clearly defined sustainable results by extending the
closing date by 24 months from December 31,2007 to December 31,2009.


11.     BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

3.      The SDR 12.3 million (US$16.6 million equivalent) Credit was approved by the
Board on March27,2003 and became effective on December 4,2003. The key objective
of this technical assistance (TA) project was to strengthenthe government's capacity to
formulate sound analysis and to implement sound policies which are critical to the
management o f public resources. Inaddition, the project was meant to follow up onthe
successful Financial Institutions ModernizationProjectby helping complete the work on
the establishment o f the Angola payment system at the Central Bank o f Angola (BNA),
as well as on other key areas for greater transparency and efficiency o f central banking
operations. EMTA was not designedto tackle every public resource management issue
inAngola, butwas focused onkey initiatives, the success ofwhich remains highly
dependent onthe success ofparallelefforts undertakenby the Government ofAngola
(GOA).EMTA is meant to complement ongoingreforms initiatedby GOA.As of April
25,2007, disbursementsamounted to SDR 5.7 million (US$8.5 million equivalent), of
which SDR 1.2 million(US$l.8 million equivalent) i s the advance to the Special
Account.

4.      EMTA focuses onthe key economic policy agencies such as Ministry ofPlanning
(Minplan), Ministry o f Finance (Minfin),Central Bank of Angola (BNA) and was
expected to last four years from the date o f effectiveness. Each o fthe four components
was designed in2002 to support efforts by the Government which had started or were
about to start.

      i)Theplanningcomponent(Minplan)wassupportingeffortstoestablish
          methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring o f sectoral and
          provincialplans and public investmentprograms (PIP).




                                            - 1 -

                                  ii)Thestatisticscomponent(NationalStatisticalInstitute INE/Minplan)was                                                                                                                                 -
                                        designed to support the implementation of the Five Year National Statistics
                                        Plan.
                             iii)Thepublicfinancecomponent(Minfin)wasdesignedtosupportthePublic
                                        Finance ModernizationProgram.
                              iv) The Central Bankcomponent (BNA)was supporting the improvement ofBNA
                                        operations and the implementationo f Angola's national payment system.

   5.                                 The project started later thananticipated: it took six months before the project
  became effective in2003, Implementationpace was also slower than originally
  anticipated largely because of the country's post-conflict situation. During2004, only the
   CentralBank component moved forward as plannedwhile the Minfincomponent made
  only modest progress. Inthe first quarter o f 2005, strong efforts were made to bringthe
  project back on track. BothMinplan and INEcomponents started to show some progress
  while the BNA component hadalready reached a keyperformance indicator in
  November, almost as planned. By mid-2005 about 30% of project funds were committed
  evidencingthat many activities mainly consulting contracts were ongoing. However, by
  mid2006, despite sustained efforts, the disbursement lag was almost 23 months when
  compared with initial clearly over-optimistic disbursement forecasts. At that time, a
  decisionwas made to prepare a restructuring.

  6.                                  At year end2006, disbursementsstood at 35% and committedfunds at 50%.
  Between 2005 and 2006, the rating for "Public Sector Management and Institutions,"
  improved. The project development objective (PDO) was rated satisfactory (S) as the
  Bank concluded that the likelihood to reach PDOs was highmainly because
  implementation had seriously picked up demonstrating ownership and some modest
  progress as measuredby the post conflict performance indicators (PCPI).' However, the
  overall implementationprogress was rated moderately unsatisfactory (MU).
  (See Table 1: PCPI Summary Scores.)

                                                                                                                Table 1:PCPI Summary Scores
1
...........)..........................
   Securitv.................................................
                                        Post ConflictPerformance Indicator
                                                                 ......"............................ ...................................... ........................................................................................
                                       andreconciliation        ~                                                                                                                                                                    i.  2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.0     1  2o06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.2  I


  7.                                  The mainreasonsfor restructuring are the following.

                                      a)          Design. Projectpreparation was accelerated after the April 2002 Peace
                                      Accords to ensure Bank's support through this operation would be swiftly
                                      available. At that time, the needto speed up preparationledto some design


      As mentionedearlier, EMTA i s not supportingall reforms butkey Public Sector ones andhas clearly
  contributedto supportingtheir improvement.


                                                                                                                                                                          - 2 -

         issues, essentially an over-ambitious project inscope with very optimistic
         disbursements projections, a large numbero f activities andlow cost estimates.

         b)        Implementation. The project suffered from a lack o f stable leadership on
         boththe Bank's and Government side. This situation ledto a slowdown inthe
         first months and low initial disbursement. This initial delay makes itnecessary to
         adjust the timeline. (See Annex 1: Status of Implementationas o f March31,
         2007.)

                i> BetweenBoardpresentation,effectivenessandFebruary2005,
                four differentTLs were appointed and at the same time some of the risks
                identifieddidmaterializeto a certain extent. The mainmitigation measure
                identifiedwas "a close continuous dialogue" which could not take place at
                that time as the turnover of TLs made it difficult to establish andpursue
                such a dialogue. But such close continuous dialogue was restored inMarch
                2005 and i s ongoing.

                ii)         A government reshufflingofpositionstook place early 2004, e.g.,
                a Vice Ministerial positionwas cancelled within the Ministry of Planning.
                As aresult, the coordinator ofEMTAchanged from the Vice Minister to the
                National Director o f Studies. This change took place after project launch
                and slowed down project implementation.

                iii) Asaresult,theprojecthasbeenrated"project atrisk"since
                FY06,2 and specifically as a "problem project" since June 2006.

         c)        Changing environment. The various governmental programs meant to be
         supported by EMTA were not implementedas scheduled. The ambitious Five
         Year Statistical Plan i s partially being implementedwith much delays andthe
         Public Finance Modernization Program is behindthe initial clearly over-
         optimistic schedule. Several postponements o f election dates created
         uncertainties which impacted some statistical activities that could not be carried
         out inthe middle of an electionperiod. The GOAfocused on successive two-year
         Programs (2004-2005,2005-2006, and 2007-2008) and has not yet adopted a
         medium-termprogrambeyondthe elections. Moreover, the increase of oil prices
         providedthe GOAwith means to fund some planned activities itself. For instance,
         withinthe fiscal revenue sub-component, the Minfindecided to contract directly a
         consultant to provide technical assistance inthe oil revenue management area.3



'EMTA,    like every project inthe Angola portfolio-was  given two automatic flags when it became
effective: a country record flag and a country environment flag. The current TL raised an M&Eflag during
FY06. Whendisbursements reached the 24 months mark behind schedule, the slow disbursement flag was
raised. Finally, on June 30, the TL raised the implementation flag.
 Itshould benotedthat the consulting firmhadbeenintroducedby the Bank to the GOAinthe context of
the 2001 Oil Diagnostic Study and had performed satisfactorily; however, EMTA did not fund the contract.



                                                    - 3 -

        d)       Demonstrated commitment and ownership. Initially, at the design stage,
        the clearest indication of GOA'Scommitment to reforms to be supported by
        EMTAwas the fact that GOAhadarticulated and initiated a numberofrelated or
        requisite reforms well before project effectiveness, such as INE's Five Year
         Statistical Plan, Minfin'sProgram for the Modernizationo f Public Finance
        Management Process, and BNA's Payment Systems Strategy. Today,these
        programs are still moving ahead, albeit inmost cases much slower than originally
        anticipated, generally for lack o f capacity, a consequence o f almost 40 years of
        conflict. Recently, political support to these reforms has beenre-affirmed
        publicly at the highest levels of the State: the President inhisNew Year's speech
        detailed priority actions for the Government in2007, and specifically stated that
        "to identify, list and register State non-financial assets and manage those more
        efficiently i s a priority." In2006, the Prime Minister announced inParliament,
        Government efforts to modernize the public procurement Law and regulations.
        These are two areas where EMTA support has beenand still i s instrumental.
         Over the last 24 months, at the technical level, ownership i s being demonstrated
        by steady progress inall activities as well as drive for achieving quality results.
        To a large extent, reasons for delays at the same time reflect strong ownership,
        since technical groups incharge o f a specific task discuss terms o f reference in-
        depthandby seekingconsensus. Finally, throughout the projectperiod,
        counterpart funds have consistently beenmade available ina timely manner.


111.    PROPOSEDCHANGES

Restatement of the Project Development Objectives

8.      The project objectives inthe PAD were initially articulatedas follows: "to
strengthen the Government's capacity toformulate sound analysis and to implement
soundpolicies in areas which are critical to the management ofpublic resources,
including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system; theformulation and monitoring of a soundpublic investment program; and the
establishment of a more transparent and eficient publicfinance framework.".

9.      The PDO would bereformulatedas follows: "EMTA supports GoA's efforts to
improve eficiency and transparency ofpublic resource management, by improving the
institutionalframework and building capacity in relevantpublic institutions to articulate
and implement public investment andfinancial policies andprocesses."

10.     The proposed new formulation separatesmore clearly the objective (what) from
the means (how). It keeps "public resource management" at the center and the
improvement o f "public resource management" remains the overall objective. The
proposed formulation links the overall objective more closely with "transparency and
efficiency". It recognizes that EMTA i s only one o f many instruments, which therefore
needs to be adapted to GoA's pace of implementation o f its reform program and
eventually shifting emphasis. It clarifies what i s meant by a "public finance framework"



                                              - 4 -

that i s "institutional framework and capacity". Finally, the proposed formulation remains
focused at the level o fthe objective since the list of "including items" inthe initial
formulation is not exhaustive nor reflects the breadthof the projectwith four rather
independent components.

11.       This restated objective remains fully consistent with the initial Transitional
Support Strategy, the first InterimStrategy andthe May 2007 InterimStrategy ,where
improving Governance was and remains a strategic ~ i l l a r .This objective i s also
                                                                          ~
consistent with IEGrecommendations articulated inthe recent Angola Country
Assistance EvaluationReport (February 27, 2007) inwhich it i s stated that "the Bank can
make a difference inthe extent to which Angola uses its resource boom effectively by
supporting.. .the creation of institutions and capacity to ensurejudicious use o f public
resources."

Articulation of a resultsframework, clarijication of outcomessought

12.       The process ofrestatingthe Development Objectivesprovides anopportunityto
articulate a results framework that is robust and which identifies results for which EMTA
can beheld accountable. It identifies six clear outcomes andrelated indicators, based on
the revised outputs, which are inturnbased on a revisedactivity plan. (See Annex 2:
Results Framework and Monitoring.)

13.      Annex 3A details initial indicators which were includedinthe Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) andprovides a snapshot o f current achievements. Except for
one performance indicator linkedto the Central Bank and the payment system, no
performance indicator has beenreached so far althoughprogress has been made including
inareas notmeasuredbythose indicators such as the Finance InspectionDepartmentand
the Non-FinancialAssets Department.

14.       We propose some newperformance indicatorsthat are to a larger extent outcome
oriented as opposed to output oriented; hence, EMTA supports the Government in
becoming more results oriented. Some indicators are dropped (e.g. establishment o f
routines, institutionalization of the oil financial model, training programs implementedat
BNA); some indicators are beingadapted andarticulated more precisely allowing
objective follow-up (new methodologies used inmonitoring the 2007-2008 GOAprogram
inanumber ofprovinces and sectors). Newindicatorsare introducedfor the Finance
InspectionDepartment of Minfinand Internal Audit Department at BNA with precise
numbersof audits with follow-up actions. Annex 3B details the proposed new
performance indicators, drawn from the Results Framework.




 "The objectives ofthe proposed interimstrategy for Angola are to (a) help strengthen public sector
management and institutional capacity; (b) rebuildcritical infrastructure and support delivery o f public
services for poverty reduction; and (c) promote growth o f non-mineral sectors." Fromthe Interim Strategy
Note May 2007, paragraph viii, page iii.


                                                   - 5 -

Reduction in the number of activitiesand reallocation of Creditproceeds tofocus on
main outcomes

15.     First, it i s proposed to drop 19 initially-plannedactivities totaling approximately
US$3.7 million. Initially, this project included more than 110 activities to be procured.
Duringthe course ofimplementation, some activities were combinedand others dropped
as they were either (i)   implementeddirectly by the Ministryconcerned (for instance
"monitoring oil revenues" inthe Ministry o f Finance), (iij or dropped as they became a
lower priority for the institutionincharge ("legal framework o f the tax system"), (iii)
became part of an over-ambitious planthat was only partially implemented, and (iv) or
were implemented with other donors' support ("sectoral statistics" inINEcomponent).
The overall reductioninactivities, do not result inchanging the PDO. (See Annex 4A:
Activities Dropped.)

16.     Second, it i s proposed to add 11new activities, totaling approximately US$2.1
million. These support two objectives (ijto complement plannedactions with additional
needed T A and capacity building activities and (iijto respond to the government's
requests by supporting current priorities with three main new activities. First, support
will beprovidedto the National Statistics Institute inarticulating a strategic ITplan
helpingINEto rationalizeits essential IT systemwhich upto now has grown inan ad
hoc fashion. Second, support will beprovided to the Central Bank inthe area o f Anti
Money Launderingand relatedprevention measures (AML) hence supporting BNA inits
efforts to continuously improve the quality o fAngola's financial system by ensuringthat
ithasthe meansto fight money laundering. Third, support will beprovidedto BNAto
implementthe final stage ofthe establishment oftheAngolan accounting and auditing
profession, an essential buildingblock o f the financial system infrastructure. (See Annex
4B: NewActivities.)

17.     Third, for 19 activities, it is proposedto adjust the budgetwith the real known
costs and/or better estimates: these adjustments leadto an additional cost o f
approximately US$4.2 million. Some activities hadbeensignificantly underestimated
initially (essentially implementation o f the newNational Accounts with INE, and RTGS
withBNA); insome cases, the scope ofthe consultants work was broadenedto better
align support with needs and ensure results (non-financial assets inMinfin). (See Annex
4C: AdjustedActivities.)

18.     The coherence ofthe proposed changes has been ensured by applying the
following principles: simplification, stronger focus on sustainable results, strong
ownership. The proposed changes would increase total project costs to US$22.2 million
once contingencies are allocated, from an initial total cost of US$20 million. However,
the IDA credit would remainunchanged in SDRs. The cost increase would be financed
by about 1.9 millionadditional US$ linkedto the SDR-US$ exchange rate variation and
the remainder with counterpart fundsto maintainagreed financingpercentages. These
changes would result inthe reallocation among disbursementcategories o f 36% o f the
Credit. Butthis percentage overstates the extent o fthe changes as the share of




                                               - 6 -

InformationTechnology (IT) i s substantial inthe Project5. Annex 5 provides a detailed
descriptionof the four components. Annex 6A summarizes the impact o fthe proposed
changes o n each of the four components and Annex 6B on the disbursement categories.

Extension of the ClosingDate by 24 month

19.      An adequatetimeframe is necessaryto implementthe proposed activities and
obtainresults. After approximately 15 months o f close implementationsupport, it
became clear that it would not be possible to catch up on initial delays. For this reason, it
i s proposed to extend the Closing Date from December 3 1,2007 to December 3 1,2009.

20.      Incompliance with Operational Policy (OP) 13.30, the Borrower andthe Bank
concur that Project objectives continue to be achievable within the proposed new
timeframe. The implementation arrangements remainsatisfactory and will be
strengthened. The Borrower and the Bank have agreed inwriting on a specific Action
Plan and Schedule to complete the Project within the extensionperiod (see also the letter
from the Minister o fPlanningdated November 20, 2006.) Finally, all audits are current
for this and other ongoing projects being implementedinthe country (see Annex 7:
ImplementationPlan 2007-2009).

Implementation Arrangements

21.      The implementation arrangements have not changed but are being strengthened.
These arrangements i.e. Ministry of Planning with overall responsibility, implementing
agencies incharge of technical coordinationfor each component, and the PIU providing
administrative support, remain adequate. The clarified PDO combined with the new
Results Framework with detailed arrangements for results monitoring will facilitate
monitoring o fthe project (see Annex 2). This monitoring task, based on PIU reports, i s
the responsibility ofthe Steering Committee (SC) which is headedbythe Project
Coordinator (PC) and includes technical coordinators from all components. But the SC
has not functioned as initially planned: the monitoring arrangements were not detailed
enough and each component was managedrather independently. Inthis context, the PC
did not convene regularly the SC as initially planned. Itis now recognized that a
functioning SC that meets regularly (e.g. quarterly) i s important to monitor progress and
achieve planned objectives.

22.      Integrated inthe Ministry o f Planning, the semi-autonomous PIU reports to the
PC and is incharge o f procurement, financial management and administrative support; it
produces a quarterly implementation report for the PC andthe SC. The PIU i s headed by
an Administrator and comprises a procurement officer, a project accountant and support
staff. EMTA's PIU i s well organized and efficient; it has provided technical and
administrative support to all other recently established PIUs inthe Bank's portfolio.



5 IT canbe included inthe "goods" disbursementcategory or inthe "consulting services" disbursement
category dependingon the exact balance between software & equipment and associated consulting
services. A modest change can trigger a change inthe category. (See Annex 6B.)


                                                 - 7 -

23.     The auditors have issued unqualified opinions on the 2004 and 2005 project
financial statements. The 2004 management letter pointed out that the accounting system
for the project was inadequate. Inthe management letter for fiscal year 2005, the
auditors reiterated their previous assessment o f the accounting system and didnot
identify any major deficiencies inthe project system o f internal control or any other
accountability issues, except for weaknesses incontract management andthe registration
o f fixed assets. However, appropriate corrective actions have beentaken by the project
financial management team to address identifiedissues.

24.     Procurement processes have generally moved swiftly throughthe various phases
once substantively vetted by the implementing agencies. The PIU Administrator is
proficient inBank procurement procedures and has ensured adequate quality control over
those processes. EMTA procurement unit does have a Contract Monitoring System,
which has beenimproved after 2005 Audit report and since thenwas found to be
adequate for recording implementationo f the various contracts signed. The systemi s
updated once a payment i s effected and reviewed weekly by the PIU Administrator.

25.     Since the project was declared effective, accounting transactions were recorded in
an Excel spreadsheetwhich hadbeen agreed to at the time. Nevertheless, the auditors
have notedthat this method caused delays inthe recording and preparationof financial
informationand left the projectvulnerable to the risk o f loss o f data.6 However, these
risks were deemed low considering the low level o f disbursement at that time. Inlate
2005, the PIUidentified andpurchased an accounting software package. Its installation
and customization(accounting plan and financial management reports) started in2006.
Changes inthe project accounting staff affectedthe implementation schedule; but it i s
noted as o fApril 2007 that the new software i s fully operational inparallel with the Excel
system that it replaces during a transitional period that ends inJune 2007. All accounting
data for 2005 and 2006 have now beentransferred into the new system. The financial
statements for the year ended 31December 2006 will be prepared usingdata generated
from the new system, and the audit will assess the adequacy o f these accounts and o f the
new systemon the ability to maintainaccounting transactions, to recordfixed assets and
to record informationnecessaryfor proper contract management.

Coordination with other Donors

26.     Recently, more donors have become involved insupporting the Government in
the area o f Public Finance Management. Today, this Group o f Donors includes DFID,
EC, Norway, UNDP, USAID and the Bank. This Group i s coordinatingthrough regular
meetingsbut is still seekingthe bestway to coordinate efficiently with the GOA.With a
24-month TNcapacity buildingproject, USAID focuses on supporting a Fiscal
ProgrammingUnit inthe Ministry o f Finance, which i s meant to collect ina timely way
quality data to measure impact o f the macroeconomic programs. Currently there i s no
IMFprogram, butshould there beanagreement withthe IMF,this unitwould be in

6Inaddition andmore specifically weaknesses included: (i)    susceptibility o f financial management
information to unauthorized alterations; (ii)
                                            lack o f capacity to produce exception reports; (iii) inaccurate
and incomplete contract control sheets; and (iv) lack o f adequate control and security o f fixed assets.


                                                    - 8 -

charge o f producingthe needed data. It was broadenedrecently to include support to the
elaboration o f MediumTerm Fiscal Scenarios. The EC has beeninvolvedwith the
National Statistics Institute (INE) supporting the productionof the Consumer Price Index,
an enterprise census and a Core Welfare Indicators survey which should be available in
May 2007. Inaddition, the EC i s preparinga US$17 million TNcapacity building
project, scheduled for effective start in2008, for both the Ministries o f Planningand
Finance. The EC project complements well the EMTA project since the EC's TA
focuses on coordinationof both Ministries during budget process and at the provincial
level insix pilot provinces. DFID has provided input into the EC preparatory work.
Norway has focused its support on INEinthe past and i s assessing exactly inwhat form
assistancewould be pursed. UNDP focuses on fiscal decentralization issues.

IV.     ANALYSIS

27.     The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic,
financial, technical, institutional or social aspects o fthe project as initially appraised.
EMTAremains aproject dealingwith public sector management issues. It continues to
bethe mainlendinginstrumentofthe Bank to support GOAinits effort to improve
"governance infrastructure," i.e. its institutional framework, systems and capacity for
financial management o f public resources. It is therefore essential to adapt this
instrument to the current situation, to align itwith GOApriorities inorder to remain
synchronized and fully engaged inthose areas that would leadto sustainable results.
Governance was at the core of the March2003 Transition Support Strategy, again inthe
January 2005 InterimStrategy and continues to remainso inthe May 2007 Interim
Strategy; EMTA remains the instrumentto operationalize this strategic pillar.

28.     EMTA continues to bea capacity-buildingprojectwhich supports one ofthe five
specific goals and outcomes that are core to the development o f effective states and
engaged societies inAfrica, as recognized inthe "Capacity Development for Africa:
Management Action Plan" (report no. SecM2006-0323 dated July 14,2006): EMTA
directly supports more reliable and accountable public financial management systems and
better assessmentsinpoverty reduction progress. Furthermore, this proposed
restructuring recognizes the new capacity development paradigm insofar as it i s more
focused and results-oriented.

29.     The proposed changes do not change the environmentalcategory of this project: it
remains a category "C" project and it does not trigger any safeguard policies. N o
exception to Bank policies i s being sought.

V.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

30.     There are six clear outcomes and related indicators. For Minplan, the.outcome is
"improved monitoring and preparationo f sectoral and provincial investmentplans and
programs"; the related indicators are linkedto the ongoing 2-year program and the
upcoming 5-year program. For INE, the outcome i s "regular production and
dissemination of socio-economic data"; the related indicators are linked to publication o f



                                              - 9 -

national accounts and household surveys. For Minfin,the outcomes are "transparent and
efficient management of Statenon-financial assets", and, "improved internal
accountability"; the related indicators are linkedto the publicationo f General State
Accounts, to largepublic contracts beingprocuredunder the new Law, and to a number
o f internalaudits. For BNA, the outcomes are "an efficient and safe settlement
mechanism for large amounts" and "an improved internal accountability"; related
indicators are linkedto smooth running of the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
system, and a number of internal audits.

VI.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

3 1.     The benefits ofrestructuring thisproject are linkedto the outcomes of the Project.
EMTAremains the major instrument ofthe GOAto strengthen its financial governance in
many important areas. It i s now broadly recognized that lack of governance inthis area
has been a key constraint to development o fresource-rich countries such as Angola.
Indeed, ifAngola is to harness its current windfall accruing from both higher level of oil
productionand higher prices for sustained growth, better accountability with checks and
balances inpublic spendingi s probably the mainelement. EMTA builds on current GOA
willingness to modernize and adapt such "governance infrastructure."

32.      Withthe proposed restructuring, the project's implementationis expectedto be on
track and increases the likelihood of the project achieving its development objectives.

33.      There are three categories of identifiedrisks.

     -  Risk linked to GOAoverall attitude towards reforms. Legislative election i s likely
        to take place inlate 2008 and Presidential election in2009. This project straddles
         a sensitive periodwhen some reforms may remain on hold. But this risk i s rated
        mediumgiventhe fact that politicalwill appearsto bebehindEMTA's work as
        reflected, inter alia, inthe Minister o f Planning's letter announcing its desire to
        restructure EMTA andby timely provision o f counterpart funding.

     -  Specific risks linked to each component. Risk linkedto implementationcapacity
         i s rated highinthe case o f Minplan and INE. Risk linkedto coordination o f
        various interrelated TA by different providers is rated substantial inthe case of
        Minfin. Risklinkedto delay inimplementationis rated low inthe caseofBNA.
     -  Risk linked to insuficient coordination among various institutions. Institutional
        coordination amongst differentpublic entities i s weak inAngola. Risk linked to
        insufficient coordination among various institutions i s rated medium.

34.     Mitigation measures include essentially a well-functioning project Steering
Committee and continuous close dialogue betweengovernment counterparts and the
Bank. The SC would mitigate risks linked to lack o f coordination among components but
also risks linked to implementation capacity to some extent, as experience i s better shared
among components. Quality dialogue can only be achieved through Bank staff (TL)



                                             -10-

stability and an adequately-staffed Country Office, leadingto close implementation
support. The Bank has been involved inthese areas for some time, longer than any
development partner, and has a clear and recognized comparative advantage.




                                          -11-

           ANGOLA: Economic ManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

               Annex 1: Status of Implementationas of March31,2007



As of March 31,2007, about 60 contracts have beensigned. The project disbursedabout
US$8 milliono f which US$6.5 million are from IDA funds and US$1.5 million are from
GOA,representingabout 40% of available funds; morethan US$lOmillionhave been
committed.


Component 1:Ministry of Planning

            -    Program PlanningMethodologies
A set ofmethodologies, articulating sectoral and provincial programs remains an
essential building-block o f the Ministry o f Planning's capacity to produce a meaningful
public investmentprogram at national level. The methodological framework has been
discussed late 2006 among sectoral ministries andprovincial governments, and approved
byMinplan. Training withinMinistries is ongoing.

            -    Actualization of "Estrategiade Combate a Pobreza"
The ECP, which i s expected to become Angola's version o f a PRSP, i s being updatedto
include a macroframework inline with the most recent financial developments inthe
country. A second draft has been submittedto the Minister o f Planning.


Component2: National Institute of Statistics

            -    Conclusion of thefirst Household survey
The consultant's final draft ofthe 2000-2001 survey has beenreviewedand finalized by
INE. The objective is to publishthe report during the first semester of2007. This survey
will support the establishment of a base line. Initial graphic work i s beingreviewed.

            -    Preparation of the secondHousehold survey
Inprocurement phase: INEis currently intheprocess of selecting the besttechnical
partners for technical support before duringand after the realization of the survey, which
i s scheduled to start mid 2007. Negotiations with the ICB winner are likely to take place
inMay/June 2007.

            - NationalAccounts
Technical Assistance has been ongoing for more than a year. Currently the consultant
and INEare working on finalizing accounts for the 2002 base year. Then the accounts of
the four years from 2002 to 2005 will berevised; the current objective is to obtain a
robust result (i.e., revised2002,2003,2004 and 2005 accounts) before June 2007.
Subsequently, TA will focus on buildingcapacity to use the successfully-applied
methodology for future updates.


                                             -12-

            -   Other supportprovided
Satellite images andrelated equipment is necessary to design andprepare adequate
samples insurveys and for the population and housingcensus scheduled for 2009 (the
census i s not part o f EMTA). It is estimated that by July 2007, INEwould have received
images covering the 52 main cities.

INEis developinga master planfor ITintegration. Its initialreport was deliveredto INE
inFebruary 2007.


Component 3: Ministry of Finance

            -   State non-financial assets
The diagnostic phase and secondphase have been completedinsofar as the institutional
and regulatory recommendations have now been produced. These are being discussed
more broadly inside Minfinbefore approval and submissionto the Council of Ministers
for final approval expected duringthe third quarter o f 2007, and implementation
thereafter.

            -   Finance InspectionDepartment
The Technical Assistance provided, resultedinrecommendationfor a new legal and
institutional framework. These recommendations are being discussed more broadly
insideMinfinbefore approval. Minfin's objective is to submit a proposal to the Council
o f Ministers for final approval before the end o f 2007.

            -   External Debt Management
The databasewas updated, andtraining was successfully providedinthe Ministry of
Finance, Central Bank and Ministryo f Planningto produce and use reports that can be
generated by the Debt Management Financial and Accounting System (DMFAS).
Guidelinesto analyze andprovide quality control have also been established.

            -   Public ProcurementReform
A technicalworking group witha secretariat has beenestablished to leadthis technical
work. The initial TA provided by the consortium o f consultants winner o f the ICB i s not
satisfactory. Changes are takingplace and negotiations with a new firm have been
tentatively scheduled for May/June 2007.

            -   ComprehensiveCapacityBuilding Plan
Little progress has been achieved after an initial analysis because o f a lack o f
collaboration from various Departments. But an initial draft final report including
diagnostic work, a program outline and detailed modules, was submittedinNovember
2006 to all Department Directors of Minfin. This report i s still being analyzed, inlight o f
other complementary on-going activities such as generic training activities to further
develop Minfin's capacity to carry out its hnctions.




                                            -13-

Component4: CentralBank

           -   Payment system: Real Time GrossSettlementsystem
RTGS hasbeenfunctioning satisfactorily since November 18, 2005. Additional
capacity-building activities are beingcontemplated inthe broad area of payment systems.
BNAis preparingTerms of reference to that effect.

           -   Internal Audit
The Technical Assistance provided produced a draft version of a new regulatory and
institutional setting for the Audit Department. Butthe technical assistance provided by
the consultant hasto be coordinated more closely than anticipated withTA providedby
Bank o f Portugal. Adjustments are beingcontemplated and will be finalized inJune
2007.

           -    Other
Capacity-building took place inthe area o f project management with an emphasis on
strategy and results. BNA i s preparingterms o f reference for TA and capacity-building
invarious other areas: accounting, bank supervision, nonbankfinancialinstitutions, anti-
money launderinglegislation, training programs instrategic planning and management
processes.




                                           -14-

           ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistance Project

                   Annex 2:     ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring


      PDQ Outcomes                 OutcomeIndicators                 Use of Outcome
                                                                       Information

PDO:"EMTA supports GOA'Sefforts to improve efficiency and transparency ofpublic
resource management, by improving the institutionalframework and building capacity in
relevantpublic institutions to articulate and implement public investment andfinancial
policies andprocesses.''

    1. Ministry of
    Planning.                    o 2009-2013 Con             The indicator information is
                                    programprepared:         being usedto monitor that a

    Improvedmonitoring              numberofsectoral and     methodology has been developed
                                                             and is being actually usedto
    andpreparation of               provincial plans         improve monitoring and
    sectoral and provincial         prepared with ncw        preparation o f public investment
    investmentplans and             methodology              programs at sectoral and
    programs                                                 provincial levels.

    2. National Institute of
    Statistics.                  o National accounts         Assess that the country GDP
                                    prepared and published   computation methodology is

    Socio economic data             according to SNA93       finally inline with best practice
                                                             and recommended international
    regularly producedand                                    norms
    disseminated

                                 o ECP/MDGsdata              Assess the availability and
                                    produced and published   dissemination o f poverty
                                    annually                 monitoringdata

    3. Ministry of Finance.
                                 o Producedand               Assess the ability o f Minfinto
    3.1. Improved                   publishedGeneral State   collect information on non

    transparency and                Accounts and budget      financial assets and broadly
                                                             shares that information.
    efficiency inthe                includinglionfinancial
    management of State             assets                   Monitor that the new public
    non financial assets         o Number oflarge            procurement legal, regulatory and
                                    contracts procured       institutional framework i s

                                    underthe newpublic       effectively implemented

                                    procurement Law
    3.2. Improved internal       o Numberofaudits by
    accountability                  INFwith follow up        Assess ability o f Minfinto
                                    actions                  conduct audits and implement
                                                             recommendations to improve




                                            -15-

   4. Central Bunk.           Q Number    of errors for
                                 two consecutive yews    Will be able to demonstratethat
   4.1. Efficient, and safe                              the systemworks smoothly
   settlement mechanisms
   for large amounts
   consistent with SADC
   systems to facilitate
   cross border payments

   4.2. Improved internal     o Ntimbcr of audits by     BNA conductsauditsand
        accountability           lnternal Audit (CAI)    implementrecommendationto
                                 with follow-up actions  improve

  Intermediate 14esults        ItesultsIndicators for
  For each Component              EachComponent          Use of Results Monitoring

Component One: Ministry      'Planning
  Articulated and               2Q~7~2008  GOA          I
  harmonized                    program monitored:       A consensus has beenreachedon
  methodology to monitor        number o fsectoral and   anadaptedmethodology

  andplanprovincialand          p r ~ v plans~ ~ ~ ~ a ~
                                            ~            The on-goingprogramwill be
  sectoral investments          monitored with new       monitoredwiththe new
                                methodalagy              methodology


Component Two: NationalInstitute of Statistics
                            I
  Poverty Monitoring         * 2 0 ~ ~ -I-louschoId
                                           2 ~ ~ 1       The mainsurveysproviding
                                siiwey published         povertydata will havebeen
                             *  Publicationof first      completedanddisseminated

                                nab'iondHousehold
                                survey draft report
                             * Publication o f final
                               report

Component Three: Ministr of Finance
DNewPublic Procurement       * New draft lawpresented
  system                       to National Assembly      These indicatorsofintermediate
                               Newpublic procwenient     results allow to monitorthat a
                                                         modernand adaptedpublic
                               ~ ~ s t i i u t ~ ~ ~ ~ lprocurementsystemi
                                            fraxcwork                         s being
                               presented to Council of   established
                               Ministers
 State non financial
 assets: regulatory            New draft law presented   Allows to monitorthat a
 framework, processes          to the Council of         consensus within Minfinand

 and systems established       Ministers                 beyondis beingreached.

 to allow recording



                                        -16-

Public debt management:      * MISfor PubIicdcbt
   Improvedpublic external     management includes    Allows to monitor the fact that
   debt management system.     updatedinfomiation     Minfinis able to better manage

   developed                                          public liabilities.

   Newadapted                * Newdebt  management    An adequate framework i s
   institutionalframework      framework approved by  established consistent with
   for public liabilities      Council of Ministers   various Gvt institutions main

   management                                         responsibilities (Minfin,BNA
                                                      and Minplan).

National Inspection of         Adapted frmework       Allows to monitor that a
Finance;                       approved by Council of  consensus i s reached that ensures
   New adapted framework       Ministers              that internal accountability
                                                      improves ina sustainable way
ComponentFour: Central lank

                                                      Allows to monitor that long term
  0 Real Time Gross          * Dawntimefor 2
    Settlement system          consecutive years       sustainability o f this crucial part

    (RTGS) fully                                       o f the Angolan payment system i s
                                                      achieved.
    functional with
    adequate capacity
    New institutional        * New organization of    Adapts the audit department with
    organization o f Internal  Central Bank Audit      its new functions
    Audit Department           Department approved by
    (GAI) withnew              BNABoard,
    manuals and norms for
    internal controls
 * AntiMoney                                          Monitors the process and ensures
    Launderingand related      New AML framework       a consensus is reached for the
    preventionmeasures:        approved by Council of  establishment o f the legal and
-- New adaptedframework        Ministers              regulatory framework to fight
                                                      money laundering.
   Capacity built to
implement




                                       -17-

                    2
                    a




               iF
               c
               .-c
               H




      a,
       2       2
               a,
       m
       h       hm
     68       68
a
Q)
         7  7          0
                       7 0

                                  00
eo                               3
0         O    0    0    0  0
                            T-     I




F..
0    0   0    0     0  0 0  0



to
a    0    0 0 0     0  0 0  0




     0        0     0  0    0

    2
    a 2
      n   2
          a          2
                     a a 3  2
                            a a 2   2
                                    a




            W
         -z
        -




            8c
            0



                  T-  T- T-  Y  T-




                  T-  T-     T- 7   7




e
b.

    0 0 - --7 __-
            0   0    0      0   0     T-




e
(D

    0 0     0   0    0   0  0   0   0




    0  0    0   0    0   0  0   0   0

                                                                 ANGOLA: Economic ManagementTechnical Assistance Project

                                                                                                 Annex 3A: Initial Performance Indicators and Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                (March 2007)


 .......................................................................................................................................................................
                                            Performance Indicator                                                                                                                                ..................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timeframe                                                         .......................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Status
     Completionof Methodologies for the
~                                                                                                                                           -
     elaboration ofprovincial and sectoral                                                                                                                                                      December 3 12005                                                                           Consultant hired,. assignment

 ...............................................
    plans and.............................................................................................................................................
                                                      programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ongoing
                                                 "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..............................................................................................................................................
     Establishment o froutines and criteria
     for the monitoring of SIGIP (Public                                                                                                                                                        December 312005                                                                           Minplanhas decided not to
     Investment Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 seek EMTA support.
     ProgrammingSystem)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Consultant hired, assignment

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...............................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ongoing
     Regular production of annual
    NationalAccounts Reports based on                                                                                                                                                           FromJuly 12006                                                                             Consultant hired, assignment                                                                                                                          (
    UnitedNations Systems ofNational                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       going. Initial report approved
 .......................
     Accounts (SNA 93)             .................."......................................................................................
     Regular Productionof Annual
     Poverty and PRSP monitoring reports                                                                                                                                                         FromJuly 12005                                                                           First household survey: report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           beingpublished
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Second household survey:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           selection process on going for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRSP: assignment to update
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           macroframework, on going:

 ...................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                                                       report beingfinalized
                                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                             ..................................................                                                                                            ...........................................................................................................                                 .............
     Establishment o fthe necessary
     institutionalframework at the                                                                                                                                                               December 312003                                                                           Minfindecidedto implement
     MinistryofFinance for the regular                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     this activity outside ofEMTA
     utilizationo f the oil sector financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and contracted directly
     model as a tool for fiscal policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aberdeen University Petroleui
     formulation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Economic Consultancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (AUPEC). Ongoing

 ..................................................................................................................................................................................              ........... ...........                    ...........................................    ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           assignment.                                                                                                .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~
     Establishment of the legal and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Consulting assignment on
    regulatory framework for public                                                                                                                                                              December 31 2004                                                                          going: first draft o f
    procurement reform                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     procurement Law producedbi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           was considered unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by Technical Working Group;
 ..........................                                                                        ........................................................................................                                                                                                new consultant is beinnhired
    Fullimplementationofthe Real Time                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Implementation completed
     Gross Settlement (RTGS) System                                                "                                                            ..........................................       July 12005                                                                                since November 18 2005.
    Fullimplementationofthe training
    program designedto support BNA's                                                                                                                                                             December 31 2006                                                                          N o progress
    restructuring Drocess.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 20 -

                                                        ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                                                           Annex 3B: ProposedNew PerformanceIndicators


                      Component                                                                                                                                        PerformanceIndicators                                                                                                                                                                                             Timeframe
...............................................................................................
                Responsibility
        MinistryofPlanning                                                                      with new methodology to monitor and prepareprograms
                                                                                                - 2007-2008 GOAprogram monitored: 3 provincial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dec. 31 2008
                                                                                                programs and 3 sectors programs

                                                                                                - 2009-20 13 GOAprogram prepared: 5 provincial programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  June 30 2008
............................................................................................    ...........................................................................
                                                                                                and 5 sector programs                                                                                ............................................................................................                                            ...........................      .............................................................................
         NationalInstitute o f                                                                  - Preliminary set of National Accounts prepared and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      June 30 2008
                                                                                                publishedaccording to UnitedNations system o f national
                                                                                                accounts (SNA93)

                                                                                                - Complete set o fNationalAccounts prepared and published                                                                                                                                                                                                                                June 30 2009
                                                                                                .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                accordingto SNA93
                                                                                                Estratkgiade CombateaPobreza Millennium
                                                                                                Development Goals data produced and published:
                                                                                                   ---                    Final report on the Firsthousehold survey                                                                                                                                                                                                                      June 30 2007
                                                                                                                          Preliminary report on Second household survey                                                                                                                                                                                                                  June 30 2008
                                                                                                ..............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                          Final report on Second household survey                                                                           ...........................................................................................................................                  June 30 2009
                                                                                                Startingwith 2007 accounts, produced and published
                                                                                                General StateAccounts and budget, including non financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                June 30 2009
                                                                                                ....................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                assets
                                                                                                - New draft Public ProcurementLaw presented to the                                                                                                                                                                              ...................................

                                                                                                NationalAssembly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         June 30 2008
                                                                                                - 3 large contracts for public works procured following the
                                                                                                .....................................
                                                                                                new Law.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 June 30 2009
                                                                                                - New Adapted framework for Finance Inspection Dept.               ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

                                                                                                approved by Council of Ministers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dec. 31 2007
                                                                                                - In2008, minimumof 4 audits conducted by Finance
                                                                                                Inspection Dept. with follow up actions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dec. 31 2008
                                                                                                ................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................
                                                                                                -      In2009,minimumof 10audits with follow up actions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dec. 31 2009
                                                                                                New public debt management institutional framework                                                                                                                                                                           ."



                                                                                                .......................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................
                                                                                                -approved byoftransactions inRTGSsystem without errors   Council of Ministers                                                                                                                                                                                                            June 30 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "                                                             ......................................
                                                                                                      Two years                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dec. 31 2006
                                                                                                ............................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                             Dec. 31 2007
                                                                                                - New institutional organization o f BNA Internal Audit                                                                                                                                                                                         .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dec. 31 2007
                                                                                                Department approved by BNA Board.
                                                                                                - Minimumof 10 audits conducted by InternalAudit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dec. 31 2008
                                                                                                Department with follow up actions
                                                                                                .............................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                - Minimumof 12 audits with follow up actions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dec. 31 2009
                                                                                                - New legal and regulatory framework for Anti Money                                                                                                                                                                               ......................................

                                                                                                Laundering and related prevention measures articulated
                                                                                                - New AML framework approved by Council o fMinisters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     June 30 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dec. 31 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                 -21                   -

                                                               ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                                                                                                                        Annex 4A: Activities Dropped




 .................................................
    B.                                                    j
                                                         :    ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                 Statistics Component
                                                                              "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     j ......................................             ....................................
    B.1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                172,94 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~



                                                         .      Externaltrade statistics: evaluation coverage, quality and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j
                                                         i mesentation.

 .........................................................................................................................
     B.1.3                                               i Harmonizationo f financial and monetary statistics                                                                          ..................................         ..............................................................................................................................                     I .................................................         24,706..
     B.2.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "                                                                                                                                                  .(.
                                                                 Central and local Government (Public) finance statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        49.412

 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................B
     B.2.2                                                1     Industrial Statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            98,824
                                                            ~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........................         ............................................................

 ............................................................................................................................................ ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
     B.2.3                                                       Wage and employment statistics, Informal sector survey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              II........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 74,118
                                                                                                                                                                  "                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..j.

 .....................................................
     B.2.4                                               ./j ...............................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                Educationand health statistics                                                                                                                                                                   ...........................................................................................                          .................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          148,23 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     j




 ..................................................................
     B.2.5                                                       Judicial statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49 412
                                                            ~                              .................................................................................................................. ..................................................................................................................... ................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~                                                                                                                         j



 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................(
     B.5.3                                                       Reprographic equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "  .............................            .............................



 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     C.                                                   :     PublicFinanceComponent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " ...........................................................................

 ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
     C.4.2                                                :     Institutionalizationo fthe Financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..................'1"""""""""' ..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                       I

 .....................................                                              .........................................                                                                                                     .........                                                                                                                                         .*..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         352,941

 .............................................................................................................................
     C.5.1                                                      Intergovernmental fiscal relations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1..................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17,647
                                                            ~                                                                                                                                                                 ...............................                                                                           .......................                     .,.............................
     C.6.1                                                I Assessment                                                       ofthe conditions and steps requiredfor the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    176,47 1

 .............................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                          !      implementation o f a MTFS                                                                                                                                                                                 .................                                         ........................                                   ........................................................................
     C.10.2                                                      ITEauipmentfor the financial model                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "                                       ...L...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                            57,500
~                                                         '


 ............................                                       ................................................                                     ...................................................................................                                                                                  .................................                     .j .......................................................................

 ..................................................................................................................................................
     D.                                                          CentralBankComponent                                                                                  ....................................................................................       .......................................................................................                           .<   ..................................................
     D.1.3                                                       BNA HumanResourcesRestructurinrr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        411.765
                                                            ~


     D.2.3                                                : Macroeconomic models: design and implementationo f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             148,235

 ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                          i training program
     D.2.4                                                :                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......................................................................................................................................................
                                                                 Improvingthe timeliness and regularity o f documents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      148,235
                                                                produced by BNA Studies and Statistics Department
                                                            ~                                     ......................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -f........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BNApro                                                                                                             ...........................................................................................................................



                 .......................................:!.......................................................
                                                                ProjectImplementationUnit                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ................................................             !                                                 ......................    ...............
                                                                N o change                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "              0

 ..................................................................................................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......................................             "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL                                                                                           3.69 1.707




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 22 -

                                                         ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                                                                                                                               Annex 4B: New Activities




                                                                                                                                                                          .........................................................................................................                               ............................................................. ...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (.



...............................................
A.1.6                                                j......................................................................................... .............................................................................................................................................................. .................................................
                                                          ECP: TA to update the macroeconomic framework                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28,000
                                                                                                                                                   ~                                                                                                                                                                        ~                                                         ~




.....................................
A.1.7                                                .,
                                                     !...............................................................................................equipment....................................... car
                                                          Methodologies: IT                                                                                               ..............                         and one                                          .................................................................................................                     .....................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~                                                                                                                     ~




                                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ................................................................................

                                                     '
...........................................
B.                                                   I......:
                                                           Statistics ComDonent-INE                                                                                                                                                                                                ...............................................................................

                                                      3       ...............................................................          I   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................                             .....\ .............................................................
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
B.5.1                                                     InformationTechnology: Strategic Plan-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      250,000

..................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
B.5.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f                                               200,000
                                                      :    Staff Training 2006-2009                                                                                                                                                                                                             .................................................................                     i.   ..............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ .......................................... '..............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "


..................................................
C.                                                    : ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                           PublicFinanceComponent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......................    !"..............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                      ~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~




......................................... .........................................
(2.10.6                                              .:    Equipme                                                                                                    ............................................................................................................................................................................                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   " ................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50,000

................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................}
........................................................................................
D.                                                         CentralBankComponent                                   .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                  ..............................................
............................................
D.1.4                                                 I............................................................................................................................................................................................
            "                                         j    Training in strategic mappingwith balanced scorecard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         152,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ^.   .....................................................................................            "......I........................................................
D.2.6                                                      TA to improvethe legal andregulatoryframework for non                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                150,000
                                                           bank financial institutions
                                                      ~




................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................D
D.3.4                                                 i Training inpayment systems                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...j.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       260,000
............................................... i:...........................................................
D.4.3                                                      TA to establish an adequateAML framework                                                              ..........................................................................................................................................................................                                             .............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       420,000
D.4.4                                                 I TA to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                          finalize creation o f the Angolan accounting and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             380,000
.........".       ..............................................................................
                                                           auditing professions                                                                                                                                                                                    ..............................................................................................                                                                         ...................................
D.4.5                                                 : TA to IFBA to articulate a capacity development plan to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        200,000

.......................................................................................................................
                                                           improve HRinthe financial system                                                                                                                             ............................................................................................................................................ ...................................................................



..............................................
E.                                                   i:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                           ProjectImplementationUnit
                                                      I N o change                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......................................................         ".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL                                                                                 2,140,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - 23 -

                                                                                                   ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                                                                                                                                                          Annex 4C: AdjustedActivities
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I          Initial Budget I                                                                                       Proposed
                                          .........................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Budget
                                                                           "  ................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                                                                              ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ^ ....................................................,.................................. .......................................                            ....,..................................................
     A.                                   PlanningComponent
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................^
     A.1.1                               Methodologies for sectoral/provincial programs
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                      230000 :        ?..................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        475,025

     B.                                   .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                          StatisticsComponent
     B.1.2                               Implementation o fUNsystem o f national accounts(SNA............................................... i..........................................................                                                                                                    93)                                                                                                  222,353 i                                                                              932,347
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................%
                                          including trade accounts:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........................................................................
     B.3.1                                Poverty and PRSP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies: Conclusion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             /                                                    148,235                                                                                      55,000
                                         o..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                fthe report on first income & expend. Survey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .............................       ...............................................          .............................   ~    ..............................................................
     B.4.1                                Cartographic Update Individualconsultant, Equipment, Satellite                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     j                                          1,414,500                                                                               1,233,682
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~


                                          Imagery
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                    ..........................................................................                     ..............................................................
     B.4.2                               Implementation o fthe secondhousehold income and expenditure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,152,941                                                                               3,400,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~




.................."" ................ ............................................................................
                                          survey                                                                                                                                                                           ............................................................                                      ............... . ~.............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .                                                                               .....................................

....................................      ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................., ....................................................... ,.......................................................
.....................................
     C.                                  PublicFinance Component
                                          ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................ ,...,.................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .~

..........................
     c.2.1                               Non-financialassets: strengtheningDNPE
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                  ;.......................................................... ?.................... *.........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 736000                                                                         1,101,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~                                                                                              ~


     C.3.1                               Improving public debt management, con
                                          ..........................................                                                                                        ..........................................                                                                                                           ..................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.                                                   339,250                                         .......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         440,500
     C.4.1                               Improving non oil tax forecasts and monitoring
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                   ".....................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 235,294                                                                                 350,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "  ...........................................................................
 ........................
     c.4.4                                ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                          Strengtheningtax assessment andtaxpayers' coinpliance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 352,941                                                                                 350,000             ..................

...................................
     (2.7.1                              Public procurement reform: legal and regulatory framework
                                          ....................................................................................................................................                                               ..................................................................................................... i...                          ...................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 287500 i...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...! ....................                                                 578,400       .......................
........................................
     C.7.2                               Public Procurement reform. Institutional strengthening
                                          ......................................................................................................................................................................... .............................................................................                                                                                                                     70,588                              ".........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         350,000
     (2.7.4                              Public procurement reform: capacity building within three pilot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i....................................................................... I                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 690,000                                                                                 500,000
 ...............................         ministries
                                          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                    ..............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "                                                                                ...l............................................................................
     C.8.1                                StrengtheningMinfinoverall capacity: Designing and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     450,000                                                                                 350,000
                                         Implementing a coherent trainingProgram for all executive
....................................     Departments
                                          ........................................                                       ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................................................. ............*......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i

..............................
     C.9.1                                Compatibility o f reforms at INF, SIPIP with SIGFE
                                          ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                                                             882,353 i           ........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,300,000

..................................        ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                              ...............j.. .....................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~                                                                        ~




....................
    D.                                    ...............................................................................
                                          CentralBankComDonent
                                                                                                                                    L   ................................................................................................................................................................................................                    .4................................................................................... ".......................................                                ......................
 .................................
    D.l.l                                ImprovingBNA's internal controls
                                          ..................................................................................................................................................................                                                         .........................................................................                ....................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  141,176
  ..........................
    D.2.1                                Bank supervision: design and implementation oftraining program
                                          ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................?' ...................                                                                                                                        148235 1                                7..  ..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         241,500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         200,000
    D.3.2                                Acquisition and installation of, and technical assistancefor RTGS i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ?................. ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          j..                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,725,000                                                                               3,027,600
.....................................    software

....................................
    D.4.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         144,90                                                                                 304,620

...................................
.......................................
    E.                                   ProjectImplementationUnit
 ....................................... Additional 24 months of implementation (incl. audits)
                                          .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................,.                                                             ............................................................................... "......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 952,500                                                                         1,357,045
.................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL                                                                                  12.323.766                                               '                                16.546.798




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 24 -

              ANGOLA: EconomicManagement TechnicalAssistanceProject

                Annex 5:         DetailedDescriptionof RestructuredComponents


Each o f the four components of the project supports the Government's ongoing reform
efforts which are expected to have a positive impact in the design and implementation o f
macroeconomic and fiscal policies. The assistance provided by the project focuses on five
specific types o f activities: (a) consultancy for technical assistance and studies; (b)
dissemination o f information through publications and workshops; (c) equipment; (d) local
training; and (e) training on-the-job.

Project Component 1 PLANNING (Assistance to MINPLAN): the goal of this
                                -
component remains to strengthen the process o f Angola's public investment formulation,
execution and monitoring, and supporting the work underway at MINPLAN.                                        This
component provides assistance inthe preparationo f harmonizedmethodologies to articulate,
monitor and evaluate sectoral and provincial plans and programs, and to build capacity.

(i) Preparation of Methodologies for Harmonization of SectoraUProvincial Plans and
programs - this subcomponent assists on the development of methodologies to harmonize
sectoral and provincial plans and programs hence supporting the Government's medium-term
planning process, and supports training, including on PIP methodologies, for staff at
Planning, sector ministries andprovincial governments. (A.1.1 ;A.1.4;A.1.7)7

(io Update of Macroeconomic framework for the poverty reduction strategy document
(ECP). This sub-component supports Minplan in hiring a local consultant already involved
in the articulation of the strategy, with the objective to update the forward looking macro
economic framework as the country financial conditions have changed substantially, inter
alia, linkedto the rise o f oil prices. (A.1.6)

Project Component 2 - STATISTICS (Support to INE): This component has been
redesigned so as to finance a set of complementary actions in support of INE. The 5 year
Statistical Plan was over-ambitious and was not implemented,hence this component needs to
be scaled down. It continues to focus on strengtheningINEas an institution while producing
the most important statistical data.

The main goals remain: (a) strengthening of INEthrough the provision of training, technical
assistance, and other capacity building activities, thereby improving the human resource base
of INE; and (b) improvement o f collection, analysis and dissemination of data by providing
technical assistance inthe generation o f macroeconomic and poverty statistics, as well as by


7These references linkto the activities inthe project (Annexes 4A, 4B and 4C). The f r s t letter refers to the
component: A for Component 1, B to Component 2.. .;the first figure refers to the sub-component within the
component; the second figure refers to the activity within each sub-component. Activities are organized by
componentisub-component and also by their nature i.e. TA/consulting services, capacity building,goods or
operational costs. In order to provide a comprehensive overview, references to the project activities that remain
"unchanged" are also included and are shown in italics (see also the Project Appraisal Document, IDA/R2003-
0036, dated March 6, 2003).


                                                     - 25 -

updating the sampling frame and cartographic base. Support to INE will be through three
sub-components:

(i) National Accounts and Trade Statistics. This sub-component aims to assist in setting up
modern systems o f generating national accounts (the implementation o f National Accounts
statistics inAngola will be based on the international framework SNA93, System of National
Accounts 1993).(B.1.2)

(ii) Second Income and expenditure survey. This sub-component will (1) support the
updating o f the sampling frame and cartographic base for selected provinces inAngola. The
updated base will be usedto create a sampling program which will also support the creation
o f a future "General Census o f the Population"; and to increase technology transfer for INE;
and (2) the second Income and Expenditure Survey which will cover all provinces. (B.4.1 ;
B.4.2;BS.l ;B.5.2;B.5.5;B.5.6)

(iii) Poverty Monitoring. This sub-component finances to conclusion and dissemination o f
the report of the first Household Income and Expenditure survey (2000-2001) which will
serve as a baseline to monitor poverty. (B.3.1)


Project Component 3         -PUBLIC FINANCE (support to MINFIN): This component
supports MINFIN's Public Finance Modernization Program.                Bank assistance through
EMTA focuses on areas complementary to the ongoing assistance contracted out by MINFIN
(mainly from Brazil) and provided by other donors essentially USAID. The Public Finance
component will comprise the following sub-components:

(i) Internal Control (INF) - This sub-component helps the Finance Inspection Department to
become an effective internal control agency, by supporting its legal and administrative
reformprocess and strengthening its capacity to implementits work program. (C.I.I)

(ii) The State Non-Financial Assets Management (DNPE) - The chief objective o f this
subcomponent i s to help the National Directorate for the Management o f State Non-Financial
Assets (DNPE) ensure that quality information on the non-financial assets of the State i s
generated in order to increase coverage and accuracy o f the General State Accounts (Conta
Geral do Estado, CGE). (C.2.1 ;C.10.6)

(iii) Public Debt Management (DNT) This sub-component has supported the improvement
                                       -
o f the reliability o f information on external debt and capacity building to produce and in
analyze debt reports. It also supports the clarification o f the institutional framework for debt
management i.e. most likely the process though which the main responsibility for public debt
management will be transferred from BNA to MINFIN.(C.3.1 ;C.IO.I)

(iv) Procurement Reform - Following the CPAR, this sub-component supports the
implementation o f a new adapted legal regulatory and institutional framework. It will mainly
finance technical assistance, consultancy services and training workshops/study tours.
(C.7.1 ;C.7.2 ;C.7.3;C.7.4 ;C.I0.4)



                                             - 2 6 -

 (v) Fiscal Revenues (DNI) This sub-component will help increase the reliability o f revenue
                                 -
projections and non oil tax collection. IDA assistance to DNIthrough the EMTA credit will
provide support to the ongoing tax reform process* by focusing on two key policy objectives:
(i)to help increase reliability of non-oil revenue projectionsg, thereby strengtheningthe
Government's capacity to produce the revenue side o f an eventual Medium-Term Fiscal
Scenario; and (ii)     to help reduce dependency on oil taxes by strengthening the Government's
capacity to collect non-oil tax revenues, through punctual interventions geared towards
improving tax administration. (C.4.1 ;C.4.4)             I




(vi) Training (INFORSEF`)          -  This sub-component supports the design and delivery o f a
training program for MINFIN, in conjunction with its various National Directorates and the
National Inspectorate o f Finance, and incoordination with complementary activities initiated
by Minfin.(C.8.1 ;C.10.3)


Project Component 4           -    CENTRAL BANK OPERATIONS (support to BNA): This
component aims to help the Government increase the efficiency o f Central Bank Operations,
by following-up on the results of the FINSEC project and on the recommendations of the
1999audit o f BNA accounts.

(i)Supporting BNA s Restructuring Process - Improving BNA's internal controls - Ernst and
Young completed the first audit ever o f BNA on their 1999 accounts. However, the accounts
are still published relatively late. Further, BNA does not yet have an independent internal
audit and control unit. This sub-component aims at addressing these two issues, by further
strengthening BNA's accounting capabilities and to establish an internal audit and control
unit. The component will mainly build internal capacity by training BNA staff inaccounting
skills and by establishing and training staff for the internal audit and control unit. (D.l.l ;
0.1.2;D.1.4)

(ii) Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills - This sub-component will support selected
training initiatives for strengthening BNA staff technical skills in two domains: (i)                 BNA's
SupervisionDepartment (Direcqtio de Supervistio das InstituiqGes Financeiras- DSI), and, (ii)
payment systems. The training includes both, the traditional tasks, new challenges o f the
financial sector and organizational issues (e.g. payment systems, anti-money laundering,
reserves management, strategic management and benchmarking). The training will also be
performed by specialized consultants. (D.2.1 ;0.2.2 ;D.2.5 ;D.5.6)

(iii)Payments System - This sub-component has provided assistance inthe implementationo f
the Real Time Gross Settlement System, by supporting the acquisition and installationo f the


8The Tax Reform Committee was appointed inAugust 2006. The Committee is currently working on the broad
principles that the reform should follow. These principles would be submittedto the Parliament for approval
before June 2007. At the same time the Committee is involved inthe strengthening o fboth Departments o f
Customs (DNA) and National Tax (DNI).
9Oilrevenue tax projection and collection: as mentioned earlier this is done directly by Minfmoutside EMTA
support.


                                                    - 27 -

RTGS equipment and software.          Amongst its potential benefits, this component has
facilitated the adoption o f adequate risk control measures, settlement mechanisms and
processes, which allows cross border links with other settlement systems namely with SADC
countries; the provision of services and payment instruments adapted to important sectors o f
the Angolan economy, with an incentive to use electronic funds transfer from the payer; and
provision of simple payment services to all, even in less economically attractive regions.
(0.3.1 ;D.3.2 ;D.3.4)

(iv) Anti Money Laundering and related prevention measures (AML). This sub component
would support BNA to (a) organize an awareness raising seminar for relevant AML
stakeholders; (b) articulate and establish the supervisory framework; (c) establish a financial
intelligence unit; and (d) build capacity for BNA staff to implement financial sector
compliance with AML measures. (D.4.3)

(v) Establishment of the Angolan accounting and auditingprofessions. This sub-component
i s meant to support GOA to finalize the establishment of both accounting and auditing
professions building on work already done and a new dynamic. Currently, there are no
recognized Angolan professionals trained in Angola. The development o f such Angolan
professionals contributes directly to economic efficiency and governance.           This sub
component would support the initial recognitionexam for Angolan examiners, articulation o f
adequate academic curriculum and the establishment o f the Order o f Accountants in charge
of disciplining the profession. (D.4.4)

(vi) Preparation of a Plan to upgrade banking skills. The Banking Institute IFBA, jointly
owned by BNA and commercial banks, was established with Bank support in an earlier
project (Finsec). IFBA needs to adapt its training quality and capacity to the rapid evolution
and growth o f the financial system. This sub component would support the analysis that
would underpinany future restructuringo f IFBA and banking academic curriculum. (D.4.5)




                                             - 28 -

                                                                                                                                   ANGOLA: EconomicManagement TechnicalAssistance Project
                                                                                                                                                             Annex 6A: Impact ofProposedChanges on Components


                                       .                                                                                                                        j                     GOA                                   1                      IDA                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      /......... O T A L....!........................................................ !.................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T......................................                                 GOA                                                                         IDA                                                            TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "                                               I "                                                                        ;                                                                    1.............................................................

                                         .........................................................................
                                                          (US$ million)..................... i................................................................................ _..............................................
                                                                                                                                  "                            *                                       CurrentAllocation                                                                                                                                                                                                  ProposedChanges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~                                           .........................................................          " ..........................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .........................................

                                        ..................................................................................................
                                           Planning                                                                                                            .i                                 0.07.......I............................................0:..48                                      1                               055 1.............................................................. i............................................................... i................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :.................i                                                0.11                          +                                        0.61                       i                                                      0.72

                                      ...........................................................................................
                                            Statistics                                                                                                         *                                  0.88                      1                                                             .............. .....".......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.92                                                        5.80                                                                 1-27 j                                                                 5-06 1                                                                            6.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i.............................................................. I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~                                                                          ~                                                                                                                                         .......
                                           PublicFinance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                            .......                                                                                                             i                                                                                                          5.10 I                                                     6.22   ...........        .............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.64                                                                   5.77 I...............................................................              6.41
                                            CentralBank                                                                                                                                           0.73                                                                                                                                                        ~                                                                          *............................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.94 1                                                                                                                                      5.59 j                                                                             6.21

                                       ................................................................................................. ...............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.44                      1                                              4.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.35 II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.79                    *...........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           110 I .                       ii                                        1.42 .......................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              j                                                     2.52
                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                           Unallocated
                                                                                                                                                                ,                                 0.16 'i                                                                  0.54 !..................................................... I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0

                                       ........................................................................................................ ............................................................. ;.........................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.74 i
                                                                                                                                                               i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           " ..........                                                                ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i                                          " .............................
                                                                                                                          Total                                                                   3.40                                                             16.60                                                      20.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~                                                                         ~




                                                                NB:IDA commitment is in SDRs. Duethe foreign exchange fluctuations, the amount available in
                                                                U S $ has increased by about 2 million.

                                                                                                                                   ANGOLA: EconomicManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject
                                                                                                                      Annex 6B: Impact of ProposedChangeson DisbursementCategories




..........................................................................................................................                ...................................................                                                                                                                         ....................................................                               ................................ *...........................................                                                                                           ................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.04 i                                                           0.19                                                   0.03                                                          0.05                                                          0.00                                                           0.05
                                                                                                                                       ~



............................
    CivilWorks                                                                            .................................            *  ......................           0.15 I....................................................................................................... 1'....................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :                                                          t"""""""""

                                                                                                                                                                                             i    ............................................... ....................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >                                                                                                                     f                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~    ...............................................         <     .....................    " .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "                 j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~            .......................................                     !.  ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
...................................................
    Goods                                                                                                                                                                  0.19 j                                           4.68 i                                                           4-87 1                                                 3.47 j                                                         1.02                                                         8.04                                                           9.06                                                            5.36

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .. ,..................................

......................................................
    Training                                                                 ........................................................................            .....................
                                                                                                                                                                           0.00..........II...................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...:


................................................................................................................................................................. ...................................
    OperatingCosts                                                                                                                                                         0.71 I              +                            0.11        ..................................................   0.82 j..................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1-38..:                                                1.02                                                         0.08                         :                                 1.95                                                          2.03 :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~                                                                                       ..................................

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     j...                           0.08                        ........................................,.....................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.87                                                                                                                          1.09 i                                                         0.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~                                                             ~                                0.22.......,;...............................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ................................................


   Unallocated                                                                                                                                                            0.16                                                                                                                                                                                       O i                                                             0                                                                                                                       0                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~




.................................................................................................                                                   ........................................................................                              i             ......................................       I..............................................................................................................................................................................................                                                   ......,......   ........................          ...............




                                    Notes: IT can be included inthe "goods" category or "consulting services" category depending on the exact
                                     balance between software and equipment and associated consulting services. A modest change can trigger
                                     a change incategory.                           -                   Initially, the BNA RTGS software was included in consulting services. It should have been

                                                                                    -                   ingoods.
                                                                                                         Similarly, for the Second Household Income and Expenditure survey, the software,
                                                                                                        equipment and logistical costs were included inconsulting services initially; it is now
                                                                                                        proposedto include them in "goods".



                                                                 10      As amendedJune 22,2004. Exchangerateused: 1 SDR for US$1.35
                                                                 'I      Exchangerate used: 1 SDR for US$1.5 (current).


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 29 -

                            I
                           0
                            M
                            I
-

a
wEl

                W     p.
El . \o
    0         0       0
.I
e            \      \
                Q\    v,
F4           -. 0    -.
                      0
                d     v,
                ri    3




           I

          VI
          e     Q)
          0     75




00
0
0
N




                        -
     4
   0      t-       w    00
                        0           I
   i=     -.
          0        0
                  \
          d            \
                        i         3
   ?      0       -.
                   2
         \              -.        in
                        00
   3      0        0                I
   M      m        m    0

          \o       w
          0        0
         \        \

                   0
                   F
          -.
          2
                  \
          0
          m        i
                   M




                              P
                              x
                              a
                              $>
                              s
                              P
                              e,

                           i  .e
                              4
                              3

v,           I
0    -.
     h
     0
            c\1
0
c-4  $1     m
    LU       I
     m
     \o
rn   0
0  \ m
0
P J\ 0
     m
     0




     .-M
      E:

w




 --.
 m
 0                  I
                    m
 -.
 00
 0     0            m
 s   \  m           I

     i




0            0
Y            Y
             a,
             L)
             8
             Y
             lli
             .e

                   w s
                    3 2c
                   '3
                   3cd
                   10  3



                    Q)
                   m ;
                    a   .-
                         S
                         e
                        .C



                    I    t




       20
       ?
       3
       3
       3
       m


e
r-     r-
       e           -.
                   vi
                   0
                 --.
3      3
-.                 i
3      3           0
10     B
3      m           $1
  Q
  3




             W

             Y
             8
             .3
             .i
             m>
             Wx
             $i
              3

     00          05
    0      W     0
  \-       ?
           n     -..
                 00
    0            0
  \        ?     -..
    0m     -3    3
           ?     0


                 co
    0r-
   -..                   I


   -..
    s:           -..
                 0      IA
                 r3
                 0      m
                 \
     10          m       I

   i             0




Y




     d

33
3
N
3




-




            D
            ?    W
        .   2    -.
                 0
                 ri
                 a
                 3
            3
                 cu
      *?
   .     .             I

            ?    -.
                 \o
                 0     m
      5     3    00    I
            3
          ;i     -.
                 0

      '1    2    W
                 0

        a,
        0cd
       3a
       4  VI


        U




                           00
 F              00   00
 0                         0
    0
    F         0
 9            0    0
    E>         m   0       0
                     c\I   r-4
                         d
                           $
                                  I

       t-       F    t-    F      r-
       0        0    0     0
                           0      M
        Y 8                r-4    I

                           U
        v)                 6




W
s

                                      ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance Project

                                                                      Annex 8:                                                   Project Procurement Planning2007-2009


I. General

    1. Project information:

        II................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................%
            Country:                                                                                                   1   RepublicofAngola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~



        i Borrower:                                                                                                 /""Governmento f Angola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !

        ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................d
            Responsible Agency: Ministry o f Planning                                                                  11
         ...........................................................................................................
            Project Name:                                                                                                  Economic Management Technical Ass                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .................................
                                                                                                                     ! .................................................................................................................................................................................................

         ......................................................................................................
            Credit:                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                     I ..........                                                                                                                                                            ...........................................................................................................................      II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i




   2. Bank's approval Date of the original procurement plan: November 27,2003.

   3. Date of General Procurement Notice: April 16,2003 at DevelopmentBusiness, IssueNo.
      604.

   4. Period covered by this procurement plan: January 2007 to December 2009.

11.    Goods and Works and non-consulting services.

1.     Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
       stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelinesfor Procurement:

                                  ProcurementMethod                                                                                                             I        Prior Review Threshold                                                                                                 I                                                         Comments                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (US$)
   1.   ICB and LIB (Goods)                                                                                                                                           >100,000                                                                                                                         All
   2.  NCB (Goods)                                                                                                                                                    >50,000 and <100,000                                                                                                             Halfby WB
   3.     Shopping 3 Quotations (Goods)            -                                                                                                                  <50,000                                                                                                                         None
   4.   ICB (Works)                                                                                                                                                   >100,000                                                                                                                         All
   5.  NCB (Works)                                                                                                                                                    >50,000 and <100,000                                                                                                             Halfby WB
   6.     Shopping (Works)                                                                                                                                            <50,000                                                                                                                         None

2.     Prequalification. N/A.

3.     Proposed Procedures for CDD Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the Guidelines:
       N/A.

4.     Reference to (if any) Project OperationaVProcurement Manual: The Operational
       Project Manual (including administrative, procurement and financial arrangements and
       procedures) exists and was approved in November 27, 2003. This manual will be further
       updated to reflect all changes set out inthis Project Paper no later than June 30,2007.

5.     Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: Retroactive financing up to SDR
       180,000 made on account o f payments made for eligible expenditures under Cat. 3, and, up


                                                                                                                                                                                                   - 38 -

           to SDR 20,000 made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures under Cat. 5,
           before June 22,2004, date ofthe Amendment to the DCA, but after June 1,2002.

  6.       Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule

         1                        2                    3              4           7            8             9

      Ref. No.                Contract             Estimated     Procurement    Review      Expected    Comments
                            (Description)            cost          Method     1by Bank    1Bid-Opening
                                                     (US$)                      (Prior/       Date

  PF 007 N E         NE- Logisticalsupport         2,400,000
                     to Income and
                     Expenditure Survey IDR
                     -2.
  PF 004 MWFN        MINFIN- Equipment for          130,000         N C B        Prior     May-2007     201-3
                     procurement reform.                                                                contracts
  PF 007 M N F N     MINFIN-Interface              650,000                       Prior      Feb-2008
                     SIPIPISIGFE.
 PF 008 ImJFIN       Interface SIGFEIINF.          650,000
I PF 006 M N F N    IMINFIN- Hardware           I   45,000     I    N C B     I  Post     I Feb-2008   I
                     equipment for DMFAS.
  PF 003 BNA         BNA-IT equipment for           30,000        Shopping       Post      Aug-2007
                     the Order of accountants
  PF 013 PIU         P I U- Acquisitiono f          25,000        Shopping       Post       Apr-2007
                     computers.
 PF 014 PIU          PIU- Acquisition o f           25,000        Shopping       Post      May-2007
                     office Equipment.
 PF 015 PIU          PIU -     Acquisition   o f    25,000        Shopping       Post       Oct-2007
                     furniture

 111.Selection ofConsultants

  1. Prior Review Threshold: Selectiondecisions subject to Prior Reviewby Bank as statedin
      Appendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:

                           Selection Method                    PriorReview                 Comments
                                                             Threshold (US$)
        1.     QCBS (Firms Consultant Services)                  >100,000       All.

       2.      CQ (Firms Consultant Services)                    <100,000       half by WB.
       3.      I C (Individual Consultant Services)               >50,000       All (TOR, contract, CV).
       4.      I C (Individual Consultant Services)               <50,000       None
       5.      sss                                                              All.

 2. Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for services,
      estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of
      national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
      Guidelines.

 3. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: N/A.


                                                           - 3 9 -

                                                                                                 1
 4.        ConsultancyAssignmentswith SelectionMethods and Time Schedule

                                   2                 3             4          5           6          7
1
 Ref. No.             Description of Assignment  Estimated      Selection  Review     Expected    Comments
                                                   cost         Method     by Bank    Proposals
                                                                                   t
                                                   (US$)                   (Prior I  Submission
                                                                            Post)       Date
 PC 012 BNA         BNA AntiMoney
                            -                     300,000       QCBS        Prior    Dec-2007
                    Laundering Issues.

 PC 014 BNA          TA to fmalize the creation   350,000       QCBS        Prior    July-2007
                     ofAngolan accounting and
                     auditing profession
 PC 015 BNA          TA to BNMBA to               200,000       QCBS        Prior    Sept-2007
                     articulate aplan to improve                                   I
                     HRinthe fkancial system
 PC 009 MINFIl-4 II
I                                                                                     Jul-2007


 PC 003 MINFIN   III INF -
                    MINFIN-Procurement            350,000       QCBS        Prior
                    reform: design operational
                     arrangements.
                            Institutional         300,000       QCBS        Prior     Jul-2007
                    Framework and legislation,
                    Manuals and Guidelines
                     and training curriculum -
                     Phase11
 PC 016 MINFIN  I1   MINFIN-Procurement           250,000       QCBS        Prior    Aug-2007
                     reform: Introduction
                     Manuals andProceduresin

                                                  350,000       QCBS        Prior     Oct-2007

                     monitoring o ftaxes
                     revenues ingeneral.
 PC 021 MWFm    II   DNI TA for the
                           -                      350,000       QCBS        Prior    NOV-2007
                     strengtheningrevenue

                I    assessment and taxpayers'
                     compliance.
 PC 023 MINFIN       DNT New version of
                            -                     200,000        sss        Prior       NR        UNCTAD
                     DMFAS.
 PC 007 PIU     III  PIU -Project                 82,800         ICs        Prior       NR
                    Administrator.
 PC 001 PIU         Audit (Project accounts).     26,480         LCS        Prior       NR

 PC 011BNA           TA for modernizing           150,000       QCBS        Prior    Dec-2007
                    regulations of the Financial
                     InstitutionsLaw.
 PC 015 MIbJFIN     DNT -Institutional            80,000         ICs        Prior       NR
                    Arrangement ofDebt
                    Management.
 PC 002 PIU         PIU Procurement Officer.      38,400         ICs        Post        NR
 PC 013 PIU         PIU Proiect Accountant.
                          --                      38.400     1I  ICs        Post        NR




                                                        - 40 -

           5.        TrainingAssignmentswith SelectionMethodsand Time Schedule

        1                       2                   3            4              5            6          7

                       Expected outcome/        Estimated     Selection   Estimated     Start Date  Comments
                       Activity Description       cost        Method       Duration
                                                  (US$)
   PC 013 BNA     BNA - Training inMoney         100,000       Actual      6 months      Jm-2007     About 3
                  Launderingissues.                                                                  contracts

                  BNA - Training onBank          200,000       QCBS        6months
                  Supervision DSI.

   PC 012 INE     INE-Training program.          200,000        SSS        18 months     Jul-2007     3 or4
                                                                                                     contracts
   pc 019 MINFIN  INFORSERFE                     200,000        CQS        12 months     Jul-2007     4 or 5
                  Annual implementationo f                                                           contracts
                  training program-2007.
   pc 022MINFm    INFORSERFE                     100,000        CQS        12 months     Jun-2007     3 or4
                  Annual implementationo f                                                           contracts
                  training program-2008.

   Pc015 PIU      PIU- Training in                20,300       Actual       2 weeks     May-2007
                  Performance Indicators.

   PC 016 PIU     PIU- Training inProject         25,000       Actual       3 weeks      Jul-2007
                  Management ILI2007.

   PC 018 PIU     PIU- Training inFinancial       15,000       Actual       2 weeks      Jul-2008
                  DisbursementILI2008.




    IV. ImplementinpAgency CapacityBuildinPActivities with Time Schedule

         1. Inthis sectionthe agreedCapacity'BuildingActivities (some itemscouldbefrom
             CPAR recommendation)are listedwith time schedule

    1                       2                  3             4            5             6              7

   No.            Expectedoutcome/         Estimated     Estimated     Selection    Start Date      Comments
                  Activity Description       cost        Duration       Method
                                            (US$)

PC 018 MINFIN  MINFIN-Procurement           70,000       6 months       Actual      Jul-2007     recommandations
               reform dep. Study tours and                                                          of CPAR
               workshop
PC 020 MINFIN  MINFIN - Training staff in   450,000      12months       QCBS        Dec-2007     recommandations
                                                        ~            ~


               procurement practices - 5                                                            of CPAR
               Ministries.                                                                      I
PC 017 PIU     PIU- Training Procurement    25,000        3 weeks       Actual      Jun-2008
               Seminar ILI2008                                                                  I




                                                      -41 -

