Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25459 - ANG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSEI) CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION
(US$16.6 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
February 20, 2003
Poverty Reduction and Economic Mangement Unit, AFTP1
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2003)
Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz)
Kz 1 = US$0.015
US$1 = Kz65
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCI          Banco Comercio e Indzustria
BNA          Banco Nacional de Angola
DEC          Direc,do de Emissdo e Credito
DEE          Direc,do de Estudos e Estatisticas
DNI          Direc,do Nacional dos Impostos
DNPE         Direcq,do Nacional do Patrim6nio do Estado
DNT          Direc,&o Nacional do Tesouro
DSB          Direc,do de Supervisdo Bancairia
EMCB         Economic Management Capacity Building Project
EMTA         Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
FINSEC       Financial Institutions Modernization Project
IMw          International Monetary Fund
INE          Instituto Nacional de Estatisticas
INF          Inspec,do Nacional de Finan,as
INFORSEF     Instituto de Forma,do do Sector Financeiro
MINFIN       Ministry of Finance
MINPLAN      Ministry of Planning
OGE          OrVamento Geral do Estado
PIP          Public Investment Program
PMGFP        Public Finance Management Modernization Program
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RTGS         Real-Time Gross Settlement System
SADC         Southem Africa Development Community
SIGFE        Sistema Integrado de Gestdo Financeira do Estado
SIGIP        Sistema Integrado de Gestdo do Investimento Publico
SMP          Staff-Monitored Program
SPA          Sistema de Pagamentos Angolano
TSS          Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WBI          World Bank Institute
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:  Philippe Le Houerou
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Jorge Araujo



ANGOLA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                   2
2. Key performance indicators                                                      2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  15
3. Benefits and target population                                                  16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                        17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                    19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       20
2. Financial                                                                       20
3. Technical                                                                       20
4. Institutional                                                                   21
5. Environmental                                                                   22
6. Social                                                                          22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  24
2. Critical risks                                                                  25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         27
2. Other                                                                           27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summnary                                                      29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        56
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  57
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 58
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         73
MAP(S)



ANGOLA
Economic Management Technical Assistance
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTP 1
Date: February 20, 2003                           Team Leader: Jorge Araujo
Sector Manager/Director: Philippe H. Le Houerou   Sector(s): General public administration sector (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans             Theme(s): Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting
Project I): P072205                               (P), Public expenditure, financial management and
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  procurement (S), Macroeconomic management (S)
[ ] Loan    [)q Credit    [ Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 16.6
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
-Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%                       Service charge: 0.75%
Finlancingioa(uSSl $m):.  Sdurce                           ;Local         For.eign -      Total
BORROWER                                                       3.40           0.00          3.40
IDA                                                            0.00          16.60          16.60
Total:                                                         3.40          16.60         20.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Address: Largo do Palacio, Cx.P. 1205, Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Eduardo Severim de Morais, Deputy Minister
Tel: 244-2-33-68-91           Fax: 244-2-331980           Email: Severim@Snet.Co.Ao,
Gabvice 1 Ebonet.Net
Other Agency(ies):
Instituto Nacional de Estatisticas (INE)
Address: Rua Ho-Chi-Min, Cx.P. 1215, Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Flavio Couto, Director-General
Tel: 244-2-32-04-30          Fax: 244-2-32-04-30           Email: contas@ebonet.net
Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA)
Address: Av. 4 de Fevereiro, 151, Luanda, Angola
Contact Person: Jorge Leao Peres, Director, Credit Department
Tel:             Fax:             Email: lperes@bna.ao
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2004i      2005       2006      207        2008-
Anhual      4.80      7.00       2.70       1.40       0.70
Cumulative     4.80      11.80      14.50     15.90      16.60
Project implementation period: CY03 - CY07
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2003 Expected closing date: 12/31/2007
.                                                     _a



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The key objective of the project is to strengthen the Govemment's capacity to formulate sound
analysis and to implement sound policies in areas which are critical to the management of public
resources, including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system; the formulation and monitoring of a sound Public Investment Program (PIP); and the
establishment of a more transparent and efficient public finance framework. In addition, EMTA
will follow-up on the recently-closed FINSEC project by helping complete work on the
establishment of Angola's payment system at BNA, as well as on other key areas for greater
transparency and efficiency in the conduct of Central Bank Operations. The project will focus
on the key economic policy implementation agencies (MINPLAN, MINFIN, BNA), and is
expected to last up to four years from the date of effectiveness.
Each of the four project components will support efforts by the Government which are either
ongoing or about to start, and which are expected to have a positive impact in the design and
implementation of a more solid PRSP:
*     The Planning component (MINPLAN) will support the continuation previous efforts at
establishing methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring of sectoral and
provincial plans and the PIP.
*     The Statistics component (INE/MINPLAN) will support the implementation of the
recently-prepared Five-Year Plan for Statistics.
*     The Public Finance component (MINFIN) will support MINFN's Public Finance
Modemization Program.
*     The Central Bank Operations component (BNA) will continue supporting improvement
of BNA operations and the full implementation of Angola's payment system.
The ultimate development objective of this project is to facilitate the establishment of the
appropriate policy and govemance framework for sustained medium-term growth, in the wake of
the transition from civil war to peace.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
See Annex I for key performance indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A Date of latest CAS discussion: No CAS discussion has yet taken place for Angola
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
The end of Angola long-running civil war, signaled by the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government and the military branch of the Uniao para a
Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA), in Luena, on April 4, 2002, opens a new window of
opportunity for sustained socio-economic development and improve public resource
management in the country. The World Bank is well placed within the donor community to
2



provide the Government the technical and financial support required to pursue much-needed
policy and institutional reforms. The Bank's response to this new course of events is
encapsulated in its Transitional Support Strategy, which has the twin objectives of helping
promote stability and supporting the implementation of a pro-poor, post-conflict public
expenditure program. The TSS, which is also before the Board with this project, is based upon
three pillars: : (i) enhancing the transparency, efficiency, and credibility of public resource
management; (ii) expanding service delivery to war-affected vulnerable groups; and (iii)
preparing the ground for broad-based pro-poor economic growth.
The lending program presented in the TSS contains four credits: (i) the Angola Demobilization
and Reintegration Project, which aims to help some 120,000 ex-combatants make a successful
transition to civilian life; (ii) an HIV/AIDS project to be prepared under the Multisectoral
HIV/AIDS Program; (iii) a third credit in support of the Social Action Fund (FAS 3), a
community-driven-development initiative; and (iv) the Economic Management Technical
Assistance Project.
EMTA is at the core of the first and third pillars of the TSS. This credit aims to help the
Government to increase transparency in public resource management by: (i) strengthening the
internal control capabilities of the Ministry of Finance; (ii) strengthening the ability of the
Ministry to generate reliable information on the state's non-financial assets; (iii) helping to
improve public debt management, control and recording; (iv) establishing clear guidelines for
monitoring and auditing the execution of the Public Investment Program; and (v) improving the
collection, analysis and dissemination of key socio-economic data. For the same reasons, it will
also help upgrade the existing policy and institutional framework, a prerequisite for successful
resumption of economic growth outside the oil and diamond sectors.
This credit will not tackle each and every relevant public resource management issue in Angola;
EMTA is focused on some key initiatives, the success of which will be highly dependent on the
success of parallel efforts being undertaken by the authorities. In this sense, EMTA is a
complement to ongoing reform efforts already initiated by the Government, with varying degrees
of achievement (see Section B2). This in itself makes the project a risky venture (see Section
F2). 
The Bank's proposed non-lending program is heavily focused on pillars (i) and (iii) of the TSS.
Therefore, EMTA should be seen as part of a package of lending and non-lending services that
will help promote fiduciary assurance and prepare the ground for broad-based growth, which
includes: (a) a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR); (b) a Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR); (c) a PPIAF-funded Country
Framework Report on Infrastructure; (d) a Country Economic Memorandum; (e) a study on
Cdrporate Social Responsibility, focusing on the oil sector; and (f) the provision of customized
training programs in partnership with the World Bank Institute. Continuing collaboration with
the IMF will also be a key aspect of the implementation of the goals of the TSS, and the
objectives of EMTA.
3



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Angola has a poor record of policy and institutional reforms. The Government's efforts to
transform Angola from a centrally-planned economy to a market economy have been erratic,
with periods of progress succeeded by stagnation, drift, and sometimes reversal. The country has
a long history of high inflation, having become actually hyperinflationary during the mid-90s
(the 12-month inflation reached 10,000% in July 1996, when the so-called "Nova Vida" Plan
was introduced). Throughout the last decade, Angola introduced a number of economic reform
plans which, due to the lack of an adequate treatment of the fiscal framework, failed after
temporarily containing inflation. From the period up to mid-1996, a pattem may be observed in
that successive inflationary peaks, temporarily brought down by the adoption of a new plan,
would be followed by an even higher peak after some months.
Angola also suffers from a disease common to resource-rich developing countries: the
coexistence of natural resource abundance, unacceptable levels of poverty, and widespread
corruption. The 2002 round of Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index rated
Angola as amongst the five most corrupt countries (in a list of 102) as perceived by business
people, risk analysts, and the general public. Mostly due to transparency-related reasons, the
Bank's own CPIA rating for Angola is currently 1.8, on a scale from 1 to 6 (with 1 being the
lowest performance rating). In addition, preliminary results from a household budget survey
conducted in 2000-2001 indicate that more than two-thirds of the population lives below the
poverty line, while 23.7% can be considered as living in extreme poverty.
Angola's current cycle of reforms started in earnest in 1999, despite the resumption of full-scale
war in late 1998. The reform program introduced in 1999 is impressive for the breadth of its
coverage: In May 1999 the currency was allowed to float freely; in December 1999, interest rates
were liberalized, and significant tax and tariff reforms were carried out; and in April 2000 the
Govemment agreed with the IMF to implement a new Staff-Monitored Program, which after
being extended in December 2000, ran through June 2001. However, haphazard implementation
of policy and institutional reforms marred the success of the Government's efforts.In particular,
important quantitative benchmarks, such as the inflation rate, were not met and a number of key
structural measures were not completed. In reviewing this SMP, the Fund concluded in July
2001 that a formal program could only be agreed with the Government following strong prior
actions aimed, inter alia, at increasing fiscal transparency and eliminating Angola's large quasi-
fiscal imbalances.
However, considerable progress - albeit not sufficient to lead to a formal Fund-supported
program - was made in a number of areas, both under the SMP and after its expiration: The
elimination of most customs exemptions not contemplated in international accords; the launching
of the 2001-2005 Privatization Program; the liquidation of the insolvent CAP bank; the
launching of a diagnostic study of the oil sector; the preparation of the State Bank BCI for
privatization; the completion of a full financial audit of BNA's accounts; the placement of
Customs administration under Crown Agents; the establishment of the Tribunal of Accounts; the
initiation of a review of the public procurement system; the signing of an operational protocol
regulating the relations between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank; and the recent
4



launching of the official website of the Ministry of Finance, containing relevant macroeconomic
and fiscal information.
The Government is currently preparing an Interim PRSP, which it intends to present to the
international community at a forthcoming donor conference. The most recent draft of I-PRSP
proposes actions which can be summarized along five broad themes: (i) undertaking economic
and institutional reform (particularly in public finance and administration) to promote
macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth; (ii) expanding the human capital base, by
strengthening and restructuring professional training as well as the delivery of health and
education services; (iii) rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, concentrating on water
supply, housing, electricity, transportation and communication; (iv) promoting pro-poor growth
through rural development, artisanal fishing, and small and micro enterprises, with a focus on
private sector development; and (v) strengthening public sector capacity and institutions,
including at the provincial and local. The implementation of EMTA, therefore, will be closely
associated with the execution of the first theme of the I-PRSP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
EMTA will support a number of ongoing and planned reform initiatives coordinated by
MINPLAN, INE, MINFIN, and BNA. These efforts are summarized in what follows.
(a) The Planning Process and the Public Investment Program
The notion of a Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario will become increasingly more relevant in Angola
as the policy framework shifts from addressing emergency needs to preparing the ground for
sustained economic growth. The appropriate sequencing would usually involve the preparation
of a macroeconomic framework first; then the definition of the financial sectoral envelopes; and
finally the selection of priority policies and programs from which the relevant investment
projects would be derived. From this perspective, Angola's PIP still has a long way to go to
become an effective tool to manage investment projects which are beneficial to long-term
development. Angola's PIP preparation process still falls to some extent into the "dual
budgeting" category, as it is as yet not fully integrated into the SIGFE; the selection of projects
has little apparent connection with priority policies and programs; and it is unclear whether the
largest projects are subject to thorough economic analysis. Long-standing recommendations,
such as the introduction of rolling three-year PIP, have not yet been addressed.
The Ministry of Planning has received, in the past, technical assistance in this area from the
Bank and other donors, including the UNDP. The Implementation Completion Report for the
Bank EMCB/PREGE project (see D.2 below), which also covered assistance for the public
investment planning and programming, including support for a three-year rolling public
investment program (PIP), under its Public Resource Management component, indicates that few
objectives were achieved: so far, only the drafting of a new Development Planning Law, which
was approved by the Parliament, and the cataloguing of government investment programs.
However, particularly in preparation process for the "Third Methodological Workshop with
Sectoral and Provincial Departments of Studies and Planning", which took place in Luanda on
5



March 28-29, 2001, some important inroads were made. A System of Public Investment
Management and Programming (SIGIP - Portuguese acronym) was established, with the
following main objectives: (i) formulation and implementation of a public investment
management and programming system, (ii) articulation of the PIP with the Government's
program and annual budget, (iii) articulation and coordination of public investment at sectoral
and provincial level and (iv) improvements in the technical capacity for preparation and
execution of public investment projects.
Some of the remaining problems marring the public investment programming exercise are: weak
technical skills and institutional capacity to formulate, execute and monitor public investment;
weak mechanisms for accounting, monitoring, and control of the public investment; difficulties
in keeping track of investment projects financed by donor grants; insufficient capacity within
line ministries to help design, implement and monitor public investment projects; and absence of
the methodological framework required for the harmonization of sectoral and provincial
investment strategies. EMTA will provide support to MINPLAN in addressing these issues (see
section C. 1. below).
(b) The National Statistical Institute (INE) and the Five-Year Plan for Statistics
INE has received, in the past, technical assistance from the Bank and other donors, including the
UNDP. The Implementation Completion Report for the EMCB/PREGE project (see D.2 below),
which also covered economic statistics, indicates that the main achievements of that project, as
far as INE is concerned, were the following:
*     Improvement in the technical ability of INE to produce national statistics;
*     Increase in qualified staff, from 12 to 74 high and mid-level technicians;
*     Improvement in the stock of available equipment.
However, the ICR also notes that many weaknesses were observed during project
implementation:
*     Lack of adequate funding from State budget prevented INE to follow up on the work of
the consultants hired under the project.
*     INE was only able to retain qualified staff through the payment of significant bonuses
from project counterpart funds.
*     State budget allocations to INE fell far short of its regular operational financial
requirements - particularly during the implementation of EMCB/PREGE, during the
nineties, suggesting that the latter for all practical purposes functioned as a surrogate to
State budget allocations  (see ICR Report No.19460, June 28, 1999).
*     The project failed to implement and institutionalize a new system of National Accounts.
In addition, the inability of NE to pay competitive salaries at the time resulted in the loss of
more than 80% of the qualified staff and mid-level technicians that were recruited during the
implementation of the EMCB/PREGE.
6



Considerable progress has been made since. At the time of the ICR, the Government had not
established the necessary legal and regulatory framework for the National Statistical System
(NSS) - of which NE is the main implementing agency. Throughout 2000 and 2001, most of the
legal and regulatory instruments required for the full establishment of the NSS were approved by
the Government. In 2000, the State budget allocation to ENE increased to approximately US$ 3
million, from US$ 250,000 in the previous year, and has been sustained at these higher levels
since.
In April 2001, the Council of Ministers approved a revised salary structure for staff at the
technical level at INE, which will at least partially help address this "brain drain" problem.
The Council of Ministers approved in November 13, 2002 a Five-Year Plan for Statistics (Plano
Estatistico Nacional de Medio Prazo, 2002-2006) for Angola. The main objective of the Plan is
to guide and coordinate the production and dissemination of official statistical information.
EMTA will support some of the key areas of the Plan. Other donors, including the European
Union, the Portuguese Cooperation, and NORAD, are expected to co-finance the implementation
of the Plan. The Five-Year Plan itself was designed by INE staff in cooperation with Statistics
Norway and World Bank staff and consultants.
(c) The Public Finance Modernization Program (PMGFP)
Angola's fiscal numbers over the past five or six years shows a picture of severe fiscal
difficulties: an unusually large share of total expenditures in GDP; an excessively high share of
defense and public order expenditures in the budget, crowding-out social sector spending; a near-
complete reliance on revenues generated by the oil sector; the absence of any mechanism with
which to protect tax revenues from international oil price volatility; the consistent resorting to
accumulation of domestic and external arrears to cover overall fiscal deficits; and the presence of
unacceptably large extra-budgetary and quasi-fiscal expenditures. To some extent, this state-of-
affairs reflects the fact that Angola has been at war for more than two decades. However, the
above may simply describe the symptoms of a seriously flawed fiscal framework - both in terms
of design and implementation.
As a response, the authorities put together a wide-ranging Public Finance Modernization
Program, PMGFP, with three components:
*     A Public Finance Management component, which aim is to strengthen the public
financial system, i.e., budgetary, financial, non-financial assets, accounting, internal
control systems, public pricing, and insurance markets.
*     An Information Technology component; and
*     A Training and Capacity Building component.
The overall objective of this program is to improve institutional capacity within the Ministry of
Finance. The PMGFP contains its own diagnostic of the weaknesses of Angola's public finance
management system, which is summarized in Box 1 below. The PMGFP was prepared with
technical assistance from a group of Brazilian experts whom were also instrumental in setting up
the SIGFE. Many subcomponents of the PMGFP will be financially supported by the Bank
7



through EMTA (see section C. 1.). ).EMTA will focus on areas complementary to those already
covered by the ongoing assistance directly contracted out by the Ministry of Finance.
In order to monitor the development and the evolution of these actions, a coordinating entity, or"
Coordenacao de Programa", has been set up within the Ministry of Finance.
Box 1. Weaknesses in the Angola financial management system
as seen by the Government in the PMGF Program
The PMGFP contains its own diagnostic of the existing weaknesses of Angola's public finance management
system, many of which reflect previous discussions with Bank and Fund staff. Most weaknesses were found in
the following areas:
- In the mechanisms and procedures for budgeting, managing, use and registration of State financial
resources;
- In the lack of appropriate integration of the PIP in the regular budget preparation and execution
processes
- In the mechanisms and procedures for the recording and monitoring of public debt, donor grants and
compensation funds;
- In the mechanisms and procedures for recording and monitoring of non-financial State assets; In the
mechanisms and instruments for monitoring and evaluating public enterprises;
- In the mechanisms and procedures regarding internal control;
- In the existing Customs Administration procedures;
- In the insufficient informatization of all management processes involved in the SIGFE
(d) Central Bank Operations and the Angolan Payments System Project (SPA)
d. 1. Central Bank Operations
The strengthening of BNA's internal controls was first addressed with the support of the
Financial Institutions Modernization (FINSEC) project, aimed, among other things at helping
improve BNA's accounting. As a result, BNA today has auditable accounts, allowing Ernst &
Young to complete, in 2000-2001, the first audit ever of BNA, on its 1999 accounts.
However, the Ernst & Young audit revealed that a number of serious deficiencies still remain,
including: (i) absence of adequate internal control procedures; (ii) absence of an independent
internal audit and control unit; (iii) absence of an appropriate budgetary control system; (iv)
inadequate management and accounting of international reserves; (v) deficiencies in valuation
and accounting adjustments; and (vi) lacking of an adequate staffing plan, as many staff
members do not have the required qualifications, nor there are formal descriptions for all BNA
posts.
In 2001, an IMF/World Bank mission discovered that the Central Bank's financial situation was
also very difficult. Large quasi-fiscal operations, including operational costs of the CAP bank (a
State-owned bank in process of liquidation) and sundry expenditures on behalf of the Treasury,
were being carried out by BNA. Together with BNA's operational deficit, such quasi-fiscal
8



outlays were found to be amongst the main explanatory variables for the monetary expansion and
ensuing inflation observed in the period.
BNA carried out an inventory of its quasi-fiscal expenditures and initiated the audit of its 2000
accounts. Nonetheless, the IMF's recommendation that quasi-fiscal debts accumulated over the
years by BNA should be settled with resources from the Treasury has not been implemented yet.
With support from the Spanish Cooperation, BNA hired the consulting company
SchlumbergerSema to conduct a Restructuring Study on its behalf. An Inception Report was
produced in July 2002, and helped inform the preparation of this PAD.
d.2.  The Angolan Payments System Project (SPA)
More progress, however, has already been made on other fronts. As a result of the work carried
out since November 1998, with the support of the FINSEC project, the Government approved, in
January 2000, the Angola Payment Systems Project (SPA) - Architecture and Implementation
Strategy. This work was led by BNA in partnership with financial institutions and other Angolan
stakeholders.
The SPA Project envisions the establishment by year 2003, of a safe and efficient domestic
payment system, adequately designed for cross border links. Four specific objectives were
articulated.
a)    Implementation of the technical and technological infrastructure which meets current
domestic needs with the flexibility to expand without jeopardizing safety and efficiency.
b)    Adoption of adequate risk control measures, settlement mechanisms and processes, which
will allow cross border links with other settlement systems namely with SADC countries.
c)    Provision of services and payment instruments adapted to important sectors of the
Angolan economy, with an incentive to use electronic funds transfer from the payer;
d)    Provision of simple payment services to all, even in less economically attractive regions.
BNA is in charge of the overall SPA Project coordination and execution. In addition, within
BNA, there are five teams working on different themes: RTGS; Securities Management System;
Physical Safety of the Processing Centers, Informatics Strategic Plan and the automation of
SWIFT. This Integrated Payment Project (PIP) is managed by a team lead by the PIP
Administrator which includes a Business Manager, an Information Technology Manager, and a
Quality Control Manager. The BNA Board establishes the guidelines and oversees the activities.
Each sub-project has its own team.
9



For small value payment which are not time critical, BNA and the commercial banks have
established the Interbank Services Provider (EMIS) to operate ATMs and POS ATM: Automatic
Teller Machine; POS: Point of Sale. network. MULTICAD(A (as it is known) payment
subsystem should be operational in April 2002.
From 2003 onwards, all civil servants salaries, in Luanda, are expected to be paid through
commercial banks. This sub- component started in August 2001 and implementation is under
MINFIN's responsibility. The technical solution has been developed and tested; the process of
opening banking accounts is proceeding. A first phase will include higher ranking civil servants.
In February 2002, with the support of Bank of Portugal, the software for Markets Management
and Assets - GEMA, was integrated in BNA systems. Data are currently being loaded in the
module "Securities Primary Market". This module will allow BNA manage Central Bank and
future Treasury bills issues. BNA already has a bookkeeping module for secondary market.
Still missing is a secure and rapid clearing and settlement system for large and time critical
amounts. This is the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) System. Such system also allows
settlement among all the various modules.But work is already proceeding at a fast pace: the first
draft Request For Proposal for the acquisition of such system has been produced by BNA with
FINSEC support, including with all technical specifications. Related to the establishment of an
RTGS system, two additional necessary tasks were identified: (i) improvement of the physical
safety of BNA central processing installations (primary and redundant sites); and (ii) suitability
of BNA internal informatics site to RTGS. These areas are envisaged to be supported by the
Bank through the EMTA credit.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Each of the four components of the project will support the Government reform efforts (some
already ongoing) which are expected to have a positive impact in the design and implementation
of macroeconomic and fiscal policies. The assistance provided by the project will focus on five
specific types of activities: (a) consultancy for technical assistance and studies; (b) dissemination
of information through publications and workshops; (c) equipment; (d) local training and (e)
training on-the-job. Detailed information on specific activities is provided in annex 2.
Project Component 1 - PLANNING (Assistance to MINPLAN): the principal goal of this
component is to strengthen the process of public investment formulation, execution and
monitoring in Angola, following-up on work underway at MINPLAN. This component will
provide assistance in the preparation of methodologies for harmonization of sectoral and
provincial strategies, in monitoring the implementation of the Public Investment Management
and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese acronym), in monitoring and auditing the
execution of the Public Investment Program (PIP). Specifically, the MINPLAN would be
assisted in:
10



(i) Preparation of Methodologies for Harmonization of Sectoral/Provincial Strategies - this
subcomponent will assist on the development of methodologies to harmonize sectoral and
provincial strategies with the overall Government's medium-term planning process, and to
support training on PIP methodologies for staff at sector ministries and provincial governments.
(ii) Monitoring of Implementation of SIGIP - this subcomponent will support the implementation
of the Public Investment Management and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese
acronym), developed by MINPLAN with technical assistance from other sources (or donors).
This sub-component will assist the monitoring process of the SIGIP by adopting clearly
identified and easily monitorable performance criteria and providing training to the staff in
charge of the process.
(iii) Monitoring and Auditing of the Execution of the Public Investment Program - this
subcomponent will focus on the financial and operational execution of the Public Investment
Program. Financial monitoring will be based on the quarterly budget execution reports prepared
by MINFIN, with which close coordination should be sought. Training of the staff in charge of
assessing the execution of the PIP is also envisaged as part of the assistance.
(iv) Other areas of support to SIGIP and PIP - Other activities that are particularly relevant to
the key project objective of strengthening the articulation between short and medium-term
planning and financing instruments, and, from an institutional point of view, between MINPLAN
and MINFIN, in particular: (a) Linking the PIP and the Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario and ; (b)
Linking the SIGIP and the SIGFE.
Project Component 2 - STATISTICS (Support to INE): Regular economic statistics play an
important role in the statistical system, both in its own right and as an essential source for
National Accounts. This component has been designed so as to finance a set of complementary
actions in support of Angola's National Statistical System. It is expected that such actions will
have the most impact in quickly generating the critical information base that is necessary for
jump-starting the economy, while also addressing the problems characterizing the current
statistical system.
This component will assist in revamping statistics in Angola by financing a range of activities
which are designed to strengthen the institutional, technical and financial framework for
sustainable production and policy-use of key micro and macro level information by the Instituto
Nacional de Estatistica (INE). The main goals are: (a) the strengthening of NE through the
provision of training, technical assistance, and other capacity building activities, thereby
improving the human resource base of INE and (b) improvement of collection, analysis and
dis'semination of data by providing technical assistance in the generation of macroeconomic,
poverty and sectoral statistics, as well as by updating the sampling frame and cartographic base
for selected provinces in Angola. Support to INE will be through four sub-components:
(i) National Accounts and Trade Statistics - this sub-component aims to assist in setting up
modem systems of generating national accoumts (the implementation of National Accounts
statistics in Angola will be based on the international framework SNA93, System of National
11



Accounts 1993) and to improve the exhaustiveness and quality of the information in external
trade statistics, in particular the coverage and quality of statistics on imports.
(ii) Sectoral Statistics - this sub-component will assist in developing the capacity to generate key
sectoral statistics. Under the IDA credit, the following five sectors will be covered: (1) education
and health; (2) employment and wages; (3) judicial statistics; (4) industrial statistics; and (5)
central and local government financial statistics.
(iii) Integrated Surveys Program- this sub-component will (1) support the updating of the
sampling frame and cartographic base for selected provinces in Angola. The updated base will be
used to create a sampling program in support of the judicial inquest for assessing family makeup
and adjunct family members; to support the creation of a future "General Census of the
Population"; and to increase technology transfer and to provide state of the art in this field for
INE; and (2) will support a large survey program, including a series of Production Surveys; a
Living Conditions Survey; an Income and Expenditure Survey; an Industry Harmonization
Survey; and an Annual Harmonized Enterprise Survey.
(iv) Poverty and PRSP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies - this sub-component will finance
priority studies in the following areas: statistical notes, short-term economic indicators;
demographic and social indicators; statistical reviews; and priority living conditions and poverty
studies.
Project Component 3 - PUBLIC FINANCE (support to MINFIN): This component will
support MINFIN's Public Finance Modernization Program. World Bank's assistance through
EMTA will focus on areas complementary to the ongoing assistance contracted out by MINFIN
to strengthen the SIGFE. The Public Finance component will comprise the following sub-
components:
(i) Internal Control (INF) - This sub-component will help the National Inspectorate of Finance to
become an effective internal control agency, by supporting its legal and administrative reform
process and strengthening its capacity to implement its work program. INF has initiated work in
the preparation of draft regulations for itself, the first major effort in conducting a legal and
institutional reform of MINFIN's internal control agency since its creation in 1958. EMTA will
support INF's fledgling reform process.
(ii) The State Non-Financial Assets Management (DNPE) - The chief objective of this
subcomponent is to help the National Directorate for the Management of State Non-Financial
Assets (DNPE) ensure that quality information on the non-financial assets of the State is
generated in order to increase coverage and accuracy of the General State Accounts (Conta
Geral do Estado, CGE).
(iii) Public Debt Management (DNT) - This sub-component will support the process though
which the main responsibility for public debt management will be transferred from BNA to
MINFIN. It will also follow up on the FINSEC project by supporting the setting up of the
interface of DMFAS - the UNCTAD-designed debt-management software - with MINFIN and
BNA.
12



(iv) Fiscal Revenues (DNI) - This sub-component will help increase the reliability of revenue
projections, in the implementation of the Financial Model (currently utnder preparation in the
context of the ongoing Oil Sector Diagnostic Study, commissioned by MINFIN to the consulting
firm KPMG) and in strengthening aspects of tax legislation and administration. IDA assistance to
DNI through the EMTA credit will provide support to the ongoing tax reform process by
focusing on two key policy objectives: (i) to help increase reliability of oil and non-oil revenue
projections, thereby strengthening the Government's capacity to produce the revenue side of an
eventual Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario; and (ii) to help reduce dependency on oil taxes by
strengthening the Government's capacity to collect non-oil tax revenues, through punctual
interventions geared towards improving tax legislation and administration.
(v) Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations (DNI) - This sub-component will finance the assessment
of current conditions and analysis of policy options regarding fiscal decentralization and other
aspects of intergovernmental fiscal relations.
(vi) Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario- This sub-component will focus on an assessment of the
conditions and steps required for the implementation of a MTFS. It will support the
accomplishment of analytical work to assess: (i) Angola's level of preparedness to move in the
next few years to a medium-term approach to expenditure planning and revenue projection; and
(ii) the practical actions required to design and implement a medium-term fiscal scenario
consistent with the PRSP and the Medium-Term Plan.
(vii)Procurement Reform - This sub-component will support the implementation of the most
urgent measures that were foreseen in the CPAR action plan. It will mainly finance technical
assistance, consultancy services and training workshops/study tours.
(viii) Training (INFORSEF) - This sub-component will help design and implement a training
program for MINFIN, in conjunction with its various National Directorates and the National
Inspectorate of Finance. It is expected to cover the costs of trainers, preferably foreign, as well as
the costs of training activities to be conducted in the provinces.
This component will also support the hiring of a Long-Term Adviser to help the Minister of
Finance administer the implementation of the PMGFP and of the fiscal reform process more
generally.
Project Component 4 - CENTRAL BANK OPERATIONS (support to BNA): This
component aims to help the Government increase the efficiency of Central Bank Operations, by
following-up on the results of the FINSEC project and on the recommendations of the 1999 audit
of BNA accounts.
(i) Supporting BNA 's Restructuring Process - This subcomponent will comprise two activities:
(a) Improving BNA's internal controls - As mentioned before, Ernst and Young completed the
first audit ever of BNA on their 1999 accounts. However, the accounts are still published
relatively late (BNA's objective is to publish the 2000 accounts and to audit the 2001 accounts
13



before the end of the 2002 calendar year). Further, BNA does not yet have an independent
internal audit and control unit. This sub-component aims at addressing these two issues, by
further strengthening BNA's accounting capabilities and to establish an internal audit and control
unit. The component will mainly build internal capacity by training BNA staff in accounting
skills and by establishing and training staff for the internal audit and control unit.
(b) Restructuring overall human resources of BNA:
Through this sub-component, the project will support the development of an overall staffing
plan. This will require a specialized review (study) of the present staff skill profiles, the
definition of the required skill mix, and the identification of missing and surplus staff skills for
optimum distribution. Once the staff mix is defined, a second study must evaluate the retraining
potential and identify staff which cannot be kept. For the latter, a retrenchment assessment,
including the determination of the required severance payment, will be carried out. This should
support BNA's restructuring efforts, which will allow BNA to balance its operations and
financial accounts.
(ii) Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills - This sub-component will support training
initiatives for strengthening BNA staff banking skills in two domains: (i) BNA's Supervision
Department (Direc,ao de Supervisao Bancdria -DSB), and,(ii) the Central Bank's Economic
Research Department (Direc,do de Estudos e Estatisticas - DEE). The training will include,
both, the traditional tasks and new challenges of the financial sector (e.g. payment systems, anti-
money laundering, and reserves management). In order to assure best selection, participating
staff of BNA will be chosen in a competitive process. The training will also be performed by
specialized long term consultants.
(iii) Payments System - This sub-component will provide assistance in the implementation of the
Real Time Gross Settlement System, by supporting the acquisition and installation of the RTGS
equipment and software and by helping ensure the physical safety of BNA processing centers.
Amongst its potential benefits, this component will facilitate the adoption of adequate risk
control measures, settlement mechanisms and processes, which will allow cross border links with
other settlement systems namely with SADC countries; the provision of services and payment
instruments adapted to important sectors of the Angolan economy, with an incentive to use
electronic funds transfer from the payer; and provision of simple payment services to all, even in
less economically attractive regions.
14



. .    . .,              -Dn6Cnt2l3v     ..      : nOVo 
~~~~~~~~M                                               innXnS   . st   o  innES- 0S
-  Tot     (1DMJI u
Planning                           0.55       2.8        0.48         2.9
Statistics                         5.80      29.0        4.92        29.6
Public Finance                     6.22      31.1        5.10        30.7
Central Bank                       4.94      24.7        4.21        25.4
PIU                                1.79       9.0        1.35         8.1
Contingencies                      0.70       3.5        0.54         3.3
Total Project Costs  20.00     100.0       16.60       100.0
Total IFlnncing Requared   20.00      100.0      16.60        100.0
2. Key poRicy and insfituCoiomal reforunns sunpported by the project:
EMTA does not purport to tackle all of the key public resource management issues affecting
Angola. It will essentially complement ongoing or planned Government efforts that are
ultimately expected to lead to a better informed and more transparent policymaking process. In
order to be fully effective, EMTA itself will need to be complemented by the other elements of
the Bank's support package - in particular, by the Economic and Sector Work activities in the
areas of public procurement, public expenditure management, and financial accountability.
Therefore, EMTA will support the Government's reform efforts in the following areas:
o     In the establishment of a more sound Public Investment Program, by strengthening the
mechanisms for its design, execution, and monitoring.
o     In the setting up of a more modern statistical system, by assisting INE in putting together
strong monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, by means of an increased ability to
conduct multifarious surveys, generating higher-quality national accounts, as well as
trade and sectoral statistics, and poverty and PRSP monitoring, analysis and studies.
C     In the implementation of the Public Finance Modernization Program, by strengthening
MINFIN's intemal control functions, increasing the reliability of the General State
Accounts, improving public debt management, enhancing the accuracy of oil and non-oil
revenue projections, and reinforcing the Government's capacity to collect non-oil taxes,
all in complement to ongoing assistance directly contracted out by the  authorities.
o     In the process of increasing the efficiency of central bank operations, by supporting the
completion of the establishment of a modem payments system, assisting in BNA's
restructuring program, and strengthening the capacity of its Studies and Statistics
Directorate.
15



3. Benefits and target population:
The main expected benefits of the project will be: (i) Strengthened mechanisms for the
preparation, implementation, and monitoring of the Public Investment Program; (ii) a
strengthened National Statistical System; (iii) improved methodologies for data collection,
treatment, and dissemination; (iv) increased ability of MINFIN to exert its internal control
functions; (v) increased coverage and accuracy of the General State Accounts (CGE); (vi)
improved public debt management, control and recording; (vii) increased reliability of oil and
non-oil revenue projections; (viii) strengthened ability of DNI to collect non-oil taxes; (ix)
clearer determination of responsibilities of local and provincial authorities over expenditure
allocation and tax collection matters; and (x) the adoption of adequate risk control measures, as
well as settlement mechanisms and processes, for Angola's payments system, compatible with
payments systems operating in SADC countries.
EMTA is not targeted at any predetermined segment of the population or particular social group.
The Govemment of Angola, as well as other stakeholders, including the private sector and civil
society, are potential beneficiaries, to the extent that society as a whole would gain from
increased availability and quality of socio-economic information, a more sound Public
Investment Program, a more transparent and effective public finance framework, and more
efficient central bank operations.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period of the project will be 4 years and the project implementing agency
will be the Ministry of Planning (MINPLAN). The overall project coordination will be
responsibility of the Deputy Minister of Planning, who is also in charge of coordinating Angola's
PRSP process. The Project Coordinator will be responsible for the management of the project
and will play a number of crucial roles, such as: overseeing the project implementation; ensuring
coordination between the Government entities in charge of supported activities; supervising the
work to be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); procurement for all
components of the project; and ensuring compliance with agreed procurement, disbursements
and financial management policies and procedures. The Project Coordinator will be assisted by
an Administrator specifically recruited to head the PIU and to support the project management.
A PIU has been established at MINPLAN to implement the project, coordinate and follow-up
activities under the different project components, to ensure a successful implementation, and
evaluate the performance of the agencies receiving assistance under the project. The PIU is
responsible for carrying out the daily project administrative work centrally, including financial
management, reporting and auditing, management of the project's special account and
disbursements, procurement, and providing assistance to the components technical coordinators
(senior officials in charge of components activities) in monitoring performance benchmarks.
The Administrator will work in close collaboration with the Project Coordinator, to whom will
report directly, in order to ensure efficient project management and execution, and to ensure
technical quality. The Administrator will be assisted by a Project Financial Officer, in charge of
the project's financial management, and by a Procurement Officer, in charge of the project's
procurement activities for ALL components.
16



Component Technical Coordinators- Senior officials from the implementing agencies, MINFIN,
MINPLAN and INE would be responsible for the execution of specific activities under each
EMTA component. More precisely, the Statistics component will be coordinated by the Director
of INE, the Public Investment Program component will be coordinated by the Director of Studies
and Planning of MINPLAN, the Public Finance component will be coordinated by the Head of
MINFIN's PMGFP and the Paymnent System component will be coordinated by the Director of
BNA. Component coordinators will deal with the substantive aspects of the components and will
be in charge of monitoring performance benchmarks for their respective components. They will
be part of a project Steering Committee which will be chaired by the Project Coordinator,
having the Project Administrator as Secretary, which will meet at lest once monthly to discuss
common project issues and to take full advantage of the synergies arising from different project
components.
D). pvqjqct R&Vaals>ng3
1. 1ProDect alternatives considered nnd ireasons Ior rejection:
The original design of EMTA included a component which aimed to support Angola's
privatization process, as described in the Government's Privatization Process and Strategy, 2001
- 2005. In the formal review meeting of the Project Concept Document, in November 2001, the
decision was taken that this component should be removed. The reasons for that were threefold:
(i) although the Bank and IMF staff agreed with the privatization modalities adopted by the
Government strategy, it was felt that the Government's choices in terms of the companies to be
privatized were inadequate, leaving out most of the enterprises which could have a stronger
impact on economic growth; (ii) privatization issues fell somewhat outside the central focus of
EMTA, which is to assist the Government in generating the right inputs and mechanisms with
which to make informed decisions on matters pertaining to public finance and macroeconomic
management; and (iii) a component would add more complexity to the management of an
already risky project without having very tangible benefits, as pointed out in (i) above.
2. Major relanted pirojects fnnanced by the Bank sand/or other deveRopment agencies (completed,
ongoing znd planmned).
Implomentation  Devolopment
Ban -financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
1. EMCB* (PREGE)                S            U
2. FINSEC                       S            S
Other daveiopment agenclez
PROCAGE (UNDP-financed
capacity building project)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Economic Management Capacity Building Project (Credit 2274-ANG). The credit was closed in December 31, 1998.
PREGE is the Portuguese-language acronym, by which the project is better known in Angola.
** FINSEC = Financial Institutions Modemization Project (Credit 242 1-ANG). The credit was closed in December 31, 1988.
PREGE is the Portuguese-language acronym, by which the project is better know in Angola
17



EMCB (PREGE) Project:
This credit, totaling SDR 17.1 million, was approved in July 1991, and made effective in
December 1991. It was closed in December 31, 1998. An Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the project was finalized in June 1999.
This credit had the following components:
(i) Human resources development: to provide training in economic management, project
analysis, accounting and financial management, and procurement;
(ii) Economic statistics: to strengthen the National Institute of Statistics (INE), and to improve
data collection, analysis and dissemination;
(iii) Legal assistance: to streamline the legal and regulatory framework;
(iv) Public resources management: to improve public expenditure management, public
investment planning, public enterprise financial monitoring, and public accounting and financial
monitoring;
(v) Liberalization policies: to design, implement and monitor trade liberalization; a rural markets
study; an incomes policy reform package; an action plan to restore competitiveness in the
industrial sector; a pilot privatization program, etc;
(vi) Institutional support: to provide training and technical assistance mainly to the Ministries of
Planning, Finance, and Geology and Mines
FINSEC Project:
This credit, totaling SDR 14.8 million, was approved in September, 1992, and is expected to
close by April 2002. The main objective of FINSEC has been to support institution building and
reforms in Angola's financial system, in order to help stimulate resource mobilization, private
sector investment, and economic diversification.
This credit has the following components:
(i) Institutional development at the level of BNA: to strengthen BNA's capacity to carry out its
functions as monetary policy and regulatory authority;
(ii) Banking infrastructure: to create a payments systems at the national level; to develop a
Banking Training Institute; and to train technical staff in key areas;
(iii) Legal and regulatory framework: to improve the legal and regulatory framework for the
financial sector in Angola, including the banking system and the insurance system, as well as to
define auditing and accounting standards for the corporate sector.
18



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
To a great extent, this project is a follow-up to both EMCB (PREGE) and FINSEC. Some of its
components are directly related to components of the two predecessor projects, such as statistics,
and in this sense it will start at the point its predecessors left. Both EMCB and FINSEC were
affected by a variable largely exogenous to the projects themselves, namely, lack of commitment
to economic reforms on the part of the Government. FINSEC's project rating in terms of
achieving its development objectives was only upgraded to satisfactory in a later stage of its
implementation. On the other hand, the EMCB project was rated unsatisfactory in terms of
achieving its development objectives. Some of the main lessons learned, as per its
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which are relevant to the current project, are:
Government's ownership and commitment to reform are vital to the success of the project
(according to the ICR, this was the principal failing of the project); an initial period should be
devoted to train the local staff responsible for project management; the Bank should commit
more supervision results to a project of this nature than the usual; the Bank and the Government
should minimize turnover of staff responsible for managing the project; and the Mid-Term
Review should be seen as an opportunity to restructure or even close the project if a substantial
number of its components are not performing satisfactorily.
These lessons have been factored in both in the design of EMTA and in the discussions with the
authorities on the project's scope and future supervision activities. Risk mitigation measures were
identified in Section F.2. Clear performance indicators are put forward in Annex 1, as a means to
reduce the likelihood of repetition with EMTA of problems encountered with its predecessors.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The clearest indication of Government's commitment to the reform areas to be supported by
EMTA is the fact that it has initiated the implementation of a number of related or requisite
reforms well before project effectiveness: (i) INE's own initiative to prepare, with the help of
Statistics Norway, a Five-Year Plan for Statistics, after successfully completing a major
household budget survey exercise in 2000-2001; (ii) MINFIN's own initiative to design a
Program for the Modernization of the Public Finance Management Process, and to hire technical
assistance using its own fumds to revamp the SIGFE; (iii) the Central Bank's full engagement in
the design and implementation of its Payment Systems strategy; and (iv) MINPLAN's own
initiative to move ahead with the design and implementation of the SIGIP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will help bring to Angola the lessons of some of the most relevant, recent
international experiences in the areas considered, as well as the specific lessons learned with the
two predecessor projects. More importantly, Bank support, particularly if articulated with the
IMF, will help this project be placed into the core of the Government's economic reform
program - something more difficult to be attained should it be financed solely by bilateral
assistance, or even by a pool of bilateral donors.
19



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project's institution building characteristics does not allow for an accurate calculation of
rates of retum. However, investment in technical assistance and information technology will
lead to improvements in planning, in strengthening the national statistical system, to a more
transparent and efficient public finance management and to a greater transparency and efficiency
in conducting monetary policy. Improving technical capacity of government official should also
lead to improve performance and efficiency gains.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project's characteristics do not lend themselves to standard calculation of financial rates of
retum. However, the investment in technical assistance associated with this project should help
the Government increase fiscal savings both in the medium and long term (see "Project Benefits"
below).
Fiscal Impact:
Project Costs:
Out of a total cost of US$ 20 million, the Borrower will finance US$ 3.40 million over the period
CY03 - CY07.
Project Benefits:
The project is expected to increase the Govenmment's ability to generate increased fiscal savings
over the medium-to-long term by:
1. Strengthening the Govemment's capacity in public expenditure management.
2. Assisting the Govemment in better managing oil and non-oil tax revenues.
3. Assisting the Central Bank in improving the efficiency of its operations and the
implementation of a modem Payments System.
4. Strengthening the Govermment's ability to design, monitor and audit an adequate Public
Investment Program.
3. Technical:
The project has benefited from work done previously by the Government, other donor agencies,
and the Bank itself. The project design takes into account lessons learned from previous projects,
as well as the Govemment's limited implementation capacity. As a result, the scope of the project
is narrower and its focus sharper than its immediate predecessor, EMCB; its implementation will
be paced in consonance with the implementation of the Government's own economic reform
20



21
program.
4. Institutional:-
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main Executing Agency is the Ministry of Planning (MINPLAN), which will work in close
coordination with other agencies more directly linked with substantive and specific activities
under the project components: the National Bank of Angola (BNA) (Payments System); the
National Institute of Statistics (INE) (Statistics); and the Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) (Public
Finance).
4.2 Project management:
The overall coordination of the project will be responsibility of the Deputy Minister of Planning
in charge of the Government's Medium-Term Program and in the preparation of the PRSP (the
Project Coordinator). The Project Coordinator will be responsible for the overall management
of the project and will play a number of crucial roles: will oversee the project implementation;
will ensure coordination between the Government entities in charge of the specific activities
under different projects components; will supervise the work to be carried out by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in ensuring compliance with the procurement, disbursements and
financial management policies and procedures. The Project Coordinator will be assisted by an
Administrator specifically recruited to support the project management.
A PIU has been established at the MINPLAN to support the coordinator in implementing the
project, in coordinating and following-up activities under the different project components, to
ensure a successful implementation as well as, in evaluating the performance of the
implementing agencies. In brief, the PIU will carry out the daily project administrative work,
including financial management, reporting and auditing, management of the project's special
account and disbursements, procurement (for ALL components), and providing assistance to the
components technical coordinators in monitoring performance benchmarks.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement of goods and services for all components of the project will be the responsibility of
the Project Implementation Unit. The Procurement Specialist is expected to be very familiar
with IDA procurement procedures. The.PIU is housed in the Ministry of Planning. Since the PIU
is being created afresh, the capacity of the unit is minimal. However, the Project Administrator
has some past experience but his role in this project will not be of procurement work except as an
administrator managing the work of PIU including of the Procurement Officer.
The PIU will be responsible for the procurement of all works, equipment & supplies and
consulting services. All the procurement functions including, preparation of bidding documents,
bid invitation, contract award and monitoring of contracts will be carried out centrally at the PIU,
which will be fully responsible for planning and timely completion. The PIJ will also be
responsible to deliver the procurement products to agreed timetables. Procurement monitoring
will be the responsibility of the PIU, which will also be responsible to furnish quarterly progress
21



reports.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PIU will have the overall responsibility of the project financial management. It will have to
maintain the accounts of the project as a whole. To that end, the financial management system
will include accounting and reporting systems, internal controls and audit. The accounting and
reporting systems will be based on a spreadsheet (Excel) which comprises the following: (i)
record of payments made through the Special Account; (ii) record of disbursements through the
IDA Credit and replanishment of the Special Account; (iii) disbursements grouped by category
of expenditure, by component and by source of funding; (iv) list of contracts, including their total
amount and expenditures incurred and dates of signature and approval; (v) record of expenditures
and deposits in the Project Account; (vi) individual records by contract/supplier including the
total amount and identification and record of amounts paid; and (vii) record of fixed assets,
including their operational status and the area to which they are allocated. This kind of
spreadsheet has been used under the FINSEC Project and has proven to meet its intended needs.
However, the spreadsheet has to be upgraded to permit a classification of the expenditures by
activity under the components. A fully functioning financial management system satisfactory to
the Bank is considered as a condition of credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is intended to support the Government's medium-term economic program, which
encompasses the PRSP, and as such it is bound to share the same social development objectives
as the Government's program. These social development outcomes - the most important one
being poverty reduction - should be more clearly established when the PRSP process enters a
22



more advanced stage.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The EMTA credit will support participatory mechanisms devised by the Govemment as part of
its PRSP process for issues of relevance to the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As an instrument of support to the design and implementation of Angola's rolling medium-term
program,which encompasses the PRSP, the project will benefit fromconsultations undertaken by
the Govemment as part of its PRSP process.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project is intended to support the Govemment's medium-term economic program, which
encompasses the PRSP, and as such it is bound to share the same social development objectives
as the Govemment's program. In this vein, the project aims to support and strengthen the
institutional arrangements put in placeby the Governmentin ensuring achievement of its social
development goals in the implementation of its program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The share of social spending in total public expenditure will be monitored as part of the project's key
performance indicators. See Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pr ect?
Poiy                                  'Tiiggered
Envlronmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  _   _O Yes *_ No_X_
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                G Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 G Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               O Yes (A No
Indlgenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's envisaged accomplishments will only be sustainable to the extent to which the
reforms it purports to support are themselves sustainable. As pointed out in Section C2, those
reforms will involve:
*     Strengthening of the process of design, execution, and monitoring of the Public
Investment Program.
*     The establishment of a more modem national statistical system.
*     The implementation of the Public Finance Modernization Program.
*     Increasing the efficiency of central bank operations.
Sustainability of such reforms will be critically linked with the level of ownership on the part of
the Government and with the in-country capacity to continue pursuing them after the project
expires. As noted in section D.4., the fact that the Government has already initiated the various
reform processes which EMTA aims to assist is a clear indication of ownership to this specific
set of reforms. Nevertheless, risks remain and the previous experience with FINSEC and
EMCB show that they need to be duly taken into account. This is discussed in more detail in
section F.2. below.
One of the basic beliefs underlying the preparation of EMTA and other components of the TSS
is that "reforms beget reforms": once they are initiated, the path for further reforms becomes
clearer. The corollary to this assertion is that country ownership and commitment are
themselves endogenous variables. As the Government and the Angolan society more broadly
start to internalize the benefits of the reform process, by observing the actual gains, ownership
and commitment are bound to increase.
Problems with implementation capacity will also impact on the sustainability of the project's
prospective gains. Nevertheless, EMTA's goal is precisely to help the Government establish the
needed capacity. Clearly, many of the existing capacity constraints will not be removed through
EMTA's implementation. Not only EMTA will need to be complemented by other Bank
support instruments, such as studies and analytical work as well as training and capacity
building through the World Bank Institute, but also by other capacity-building initiatives that
could be supported by other agencies.
24



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Linkages between SIGIP and SIGFE are      S         Continuing cormnunication between the
not sufficiently strengthened.                      coordinators of the Planning and Public
Finance components through the Steering
Committee mechanism, enabling them to
ensure that synergies between the two
components are duly taken into consideration.
Inadequate implementation of the Five-    H         Continuous dialogue with and assistance to
Year Plan for Statistics.                           INE both as part of the implementation of the
Statistics component and as part of the overall
country dialogue.
Inadequate implementation of the Public   H        Continuous dialogue with and assistance to
Finance Modemization Program.                       MINFIN both as part of the implementation of
the Public Finance component and as part of
the overall country dialogue.
Inadequate implementation of the BNA's    M         Continuous dialogue with and assistance to
restructuring process, including its                BNA both as part of the implementation of the
Payments System strategy.                           Central Bank component and as part of the
overall country dialogue.
From Components to Outputs
Untimely or inadequate provision of       S         Adequate implementation of the Public
local counterpart financing.                        Finance Modernization Program is expected to
ease fiscal constraints that could impede
adequate provision of counterpart funding.
Inadequate performance by local           H          Establish a Steering Commnittee - composed of
counterparts.                                       the Project Coordinator, the Project
Administrator, and component directors - that
meets regularly to assess performance and
maintain the Bank's Task Team abreast of any
unsatisfactory aspects.
Insufficient commitment and technical     S         Active high-level dialogue with implementing
capacity from government agencies to                agencies to maintain its commitment and
implement and sustain activities.                   support at the highest levels of government.
Adequate project supervision on the side of the
World Bank. Use of Mid-Term Review as an
opportunity to restructure or even close project
if performance is not satisfactory.
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
25



The overall risks associated with the implementation of EMTA can be broadly classified in three
main categories, giving rise to a more detailed description of the risks that will be incurred:
(i) Risks Stemmingfrom the Government's Overall Attitude Towards Reforms
From a broad, macroeconomic/institutional perspective, this project essentially faces the same
risks as its predecessors: that the Government's ownership of and commitment to the reforms -
especially on the fiscal side - contemplated by EMTA are simply not sufficient for fully
successful implementation. This was particularly the case of the EMCB project; as for FINSEC,
it benefited, in its later stages, from the new wave of reforms initiated in 1999 and from the
Central Bank's Govemor leadership in carrying out important initiatives such as the
establishment of a modern Payments System. In this category, risks should be considered high.
(ii) Specific Risks Associated with Individual Project Components
Different components have different degrees of riskiness, as seen below:
Planning:
Adequacy of the SIGIP to the SIGFE (Angola's IFMIS) (Substantial)
Statistics:
1. INE's absorptive capacity and ability to implement a large program (Substantial)
2. Inadequate State budget allocations for INE, to cover for its regular operational expenses
(Moderate)
Central Bank Operations:
Delays in the implementation of the Payments System strategy (Low)
Public Finance:
Ongoing technical assistance, by third parties, to strengthen the SIGFE may not generate the
desired results, affecting some of EMTA's sub-components (High)
(iiii) Risks Stemming from Insufficient Coordination Amongst Agencies within the Public
Administration
It is a well-known fact that institutional coordination amongst different public agencies in
Angola is very weak. This often creates delays in the implementation of initiatives by the Bank,
as staff frequently play the role of informally providing the bridge between different
govemmental organizations to ensure the minimum necessary coordination amongst them. This
risk is particularly important when different agencies are involved in the same activity - as in the
26



case of EMTA. Therefore, both the Project Coordinator and the Project Implementation Unit will
play a fundamental role in assisting the inter-agency coordination process on the ground.
In this category, risks should be considered moderate.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A possible controversial aspect refers to Angola's policy environment, in which the country's
fiduciary framework is still very weak, and large, unexplained discrepancies in the fiscal
accounts are still observed. In this context, IDA resources committed to EMTA will be used to
facilitate capacity-building and the transfer of knowledge; to increase the Bank's leverage in
policy design and implementation; to ensure that some critical activities related to economic
reform are adequately funded; and to set up implementation arrangements (such as a project
implementation unit) that will channel project resources to the intended uses in a transparent and
accountable manner.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
project:
(a)   the Borrower has opened the Project account and deposited the Initial Deposit therein;
(b)   the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system for the
Project, satisfactory to the Association and with capacity to produce FMRs;
(c)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(d)   the Borrower has appointed key staff for the PIU, including a Project administrator, a
procurement officer, a short-termn international procurement expert and a financial
controller all with terms of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association and appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3
to this Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Procurement Plan for the first Project
year, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(f)   the Borrower, INE and BNA have signed the Subsidiary Agreements; and
(g)   the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of the
negotiated Development Credit Agreement (DCA) in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to the DCA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
27



H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year'sactivities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
CL 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
/2oyle Araujo               Philippe H. Le Hou rou           Darius Mans
I Team Leade4//                 Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Dlrector



Annn 1: PFoDjct 1oaegn $unntry
ANGOLA: Eccnomic b mgnsmn2 Tclhnkm A$sz$zft              ca
GS3smvchy of         Noy S@M303..I:&               >3s3                .C   t0
Sector-related CAS     Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country        {from GoaD to Bank
Goal:                                         reports:                zission)
EMTA lies at the core of  o  Increased collection  o  Public Exp.    Governnent's
one of the three pillars   of non-oil tax         Management and     commitment to proceed
of the Bank's              revenues.              Financial          with key economic and
Transitional Support   0   Decreasing share of    Accountability     transparency-related
Strategy for Angola:       unclassified           Report.            reforms, taking full
Enhancing the              expenditures over  o    Government        advantage of the new
Transparency,              total expenditures.    reports, including  opportunities brought
Efficiency, and        o   Increasing shares      the Diagnostic     about by the advent of
Credibility of Public      of health and          Study of the Oil   peace
Resource Management.       education              Sector.
expenditures in total  o  IMF reports.
Government
expenditure.
;  I      oam  ehy (or -Key     n@ ; -,. ! n     C00OC@lnOR.       .
Project Development    Outcome I Impact       Project repots:        (from Objactiva to
Objective:             Indicators:                                    Goal)
The key objective of the  Strengthened        a   Quarterly and      Government's
project is to strengthen  mechanisms for the      annual progress     commitment to the
the Government's       preparation,               reports from       reforms on the PIP; to
capacity to formulate  implementation, and        implementation     the Five-Year Plan for
sound analysis and to  monitoring of the Public   agencies;           Statistics; to the Public
implement sound        Investment Program.    o   PIU progress        Finance Modernization
policies in areas which                           reports             Program; and to the full
are critical to the    Increased ability of INE  o  Supervision mission  implementation of its
management of public   to produce and             reports;            Payments Systes
resources, including:  disseminate relevant   o   Evaluation mission  strategy.
poverty analysis; the  socio-economic             reports (mid-term &
setting-up of a
monitoring and         statistcs on a regular     final)
evaluation (M&E)        asis.
system; the formulation
and monitoring of a    Improved
sound Public Investment  methodologies for data
Program (PIP); and the  collection, treatment,
establishment of a more  and dissemination.
transparent and efficient
public finance         Increased ability of
framework. In addition,  MINFIN to exert its
EMTA will follow-up    internal control
on the recently-closed  functions.
FINSEC project by      _
29



helping complete work
on the establishment of  Increased coverage and
Angola's payment       accuracy of the General
system at BNA, as well  State Accounts (CGE).
as on other key areas for
greater transparency and  Improved public debt
efficiency in the conduct  management, control
of Central Bank        and recording.
Operations. The project
will focus on the key  Increased reliability of
economic policy        oil and non-oil revenue
implementation agencies
(MINPLAN, MINFIN,      projections.
BNA).
Strengthened ability of
DNI to collect non-oil
taxes.
Clearer determination of
responsibilities of local
and provincial
authorities over
expenditure allocation
and tax collection
matters.
Formulation of a MTFS
consistent with the Full
PRSP and the
Government's Medium-
Term Plan.
Adoption of adequate
risk control measures, as
well as settlement
mechanisms and
processes, compatible
with payments systems
operating in SADC
countries.
lE@gcO2y oU  .      (g  -Sau-Jil'iu-                                       I h C52S,,,i.r; ;-  : V1j.l
Output from each       Output Indicentor:     Project ropoat:         (from Outputn to
Component:                                                            Objective)
Compoment 11:
IPInning
o   Preparation of     o   Methodologies for  o   Government          MINilN and
methodologies for      the elaboration of     Economic Program   MtNPLAN work
harmonization of       provinciaUsectoral     and PIP             together in
sectoral and           plans and programs.  o        Training Reports  strengthening the links
provincial          o  Routines/criteria for   and evaluation     between the SIGIP and
30



strategies.           monitoring SIGIP.  *   Periodic         the SIGFE.
*   Monitoring of     *   Routines/criteria for  component and
implementation of     monitoring and        Project Unit
SIGIP.                auditing the          progress reports
*   Monitoring and        execution of he PIP. *  Supervision mission
auditing of the    *  PIP training          reports
execution of the      program designed   *   Evaluation mission
public investment     and delivered.        reports (mid-term &
program                                      final)
Component II:
Statistics
*  National Accounts  *   Annual national   *   Periodic component  INE's commitment to
and Trade Statistics  accounts reports       and Project Unit  implement Five-Year
*   Sectoral Statistics   based on SNA 93.      progress reports;  Plan for Statistics.
*   Integrated Surveys  *  Quarterly reports on  a  Supervision mission
Program               external trade         reports;
*   Poverty and PRSP      statistics.       *   Evaluation mission
Monitoring,        *  Wage/employment,      reports (mid-term &
Analysis and          judicial, education   final)
Studies               and health statistics:  *  Receipt of
annual reports.       publications from
*   Annual harmonized     Project Unit
enterprise surveys.  *  Assessments by
*   System of             main users in
integrated            government
household surveys:
datasets for intemal
tabulation,
monitoring, and
external analysis.
* Annual
poverty/PRSP
monitoring report.
Component HI: Public
Finances
*   Internal Control  *   New institutional  *  Government's       MINFIN's commitment
framework for INF,    Economic and       to implement the Public
including new         Social Plan and    Finance Modernization
legislation and       Annual State       Program.
updated curriculum    Budget Proposal
for inspectors.    *  Published budget
*   State Non-Financial  *  Identification and  execution reports
Assets                recording of the   *   Government
Management.           State non-financial    Reports
assets.            *  Draft regulations
*   Harmonization of  *   Periodic
31



norms on the          component and
acquisition, usage,    Project Unit
donation, scrapping    progress reports;
and selling of non-  *  Supervision mission
financial assets.     reports;
*   Harmonization      *  Evaluation mission
between the           reports (mid-term &
"classificador         final)
orcamental", the
economic
classification of
expenditures, and
the new General
Accounting Plan.
*  Public Debt        .   Establishment of an
Management.            appropriate
institutional
framework for
public debt
management.
.   Installation of
DMFAS in
MINFIN.
*   DMFAS training
program designed
and implemented.
*  Fiscal Revenues.   *   Tax revenue
projections and
monitoring system:
diagnostic study,
with guidelines and
implementation
action plan.
* Institutionalization
of the oil sector
Financial Model
(including training).
. Revised tax
legislation in light
of ongoing tax
reforms.
* Revised and
updated manual of
procedures for tax
inspectors.
*  Intergovernmental  *   Diagnostic study on
fiscal relations.     intergovernmental
fiscal relations,
32



including action
plan.
*   Medium-Term        *   MTFS diagnostic
Fiscal Scenario        study, including
(MTFS).                implementation
action plan and
timetable.
*   Procurement        *   Draft Law; (ii)
Reform.                Draft Regulations;
(iii) adoption of
Standard Bidding
Documents; (iii)
Proposed
mechanism/
structure to oversee
compliance with
regulations ; (iv)
Sound organization
and record-keeping
*   MINFIN's training  *   Training program
program for DNO,       designed and
DNC, DNT, DNI,         implemented.
DNPE, INF.
Component IV:
Central Bank
Operations
.   Implementation of  Installation of RTGS                         BNA's commitment to
the RTGS system.   equipment and software                       implement its Payments
(including training).                         System.
*   Supporting BNA's   (i) Report prepared that                      BNA's commitment to
restructuring      fully identifies the unit's                   proceed with its
process            TORs, administrative                          restructuring process.
structure; reporting
responsibilities, staffing
and equipment needs;
(ii) training program
designed; (iii) training
program implemented;
(iv) staffing plan
designed.
33



*   Strengthening of  (i) Training programs
BNA Staff Banking  designed and delivered;
Skills.           (ii) Study Tours
completed; (iii)
Documents from Studies
and Statistical
Department published
on a timely basis.
Hierarchy of        Key Performance       Data Collection           Critical
Objectives            Indicators             Strategy           Assumptions
Project Components I  Inputs: (budget for   Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:       each component)                            Outputs)
Component I. Plannin  USS 0.48 million      *  Quarterly and     *   Timely provision of
progress reports by  local counterpart
Component II.         USS 4.92 rmillion        components and        financing.
Statistics                                     PIU;              .    Sound project
*  Quarterly             management, with
Component IH. Public  USS 5.1 million         Disbursement          Deputy-Minister of
Finances                                       reports;              Planning (also in
charge of PRSP) as
Component IV.         USS 4.21 million      *                        main counterpart,
Central Bank                                                         coordinating the
Operations                                                           work of specific
component
Project               USS 1.35 million                               coordinators (at
Implementation Unit                                                  MINPLAN, INE,
Contingencies         USS 0.54 rnillion                              BNA and
MINFIN).
Total: US$ 16.6 million
34



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
Project description
Each of the four project components will support efforts by the Government which are either ongoing or about to start,
and which' are expected to have a positive impact in the design and implementation of sound macroeconomic and fiscal
policies: (i) the Planning component (MINPLAN) will support the continuation previous efforts at establishing
methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring of the PIP; (ii) the Statistics component (INE/MINPLAN)
will support the implementation of the recently-prepared Five-Year Plan for Statistics; (iii) the Public Finance component
(MINFIN) will support MINFIN's Public Finance Modemization Program (PMGFP) and (iv) the Central Bank
component (BNA) will support activities aimed at strengthening BNA's operational efficiency, including the full
implementation of Angola's payment system.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.48 million
Planning Component
The main goal of this component is to strengthen the capacity of MINPLAN to formulate and implement the Public
Investment Program (PIP); to monitor and audit its execution; and to integrate it more effectively into the overall
planning and budgeting process. This component will provide assistance in the preparation of methodologies for
harmonization of sectoral and provincial strategies, in the monitoring of the implementation of the Public Investment
Management and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese acronym), as well as in the monitoring and auditing of the
execution of the Public Investment Program (PIP).
Sub-Components
Preparation of Methodologies for Harmonization of Sectoral/Provincial Strategies. Through this sub-component, the
Bank will assist in the development of methodologies to harmonize sectoral and provincial strategies with the overall
Government's Medium-Term Program, and to support training on PIP methodologies for staff at sector ministries and
provincial governments. Technical assistance will be provided in three modalities: (i) diagnosis and recommendations on
strategic options; (ii) development of methodologies and manuals for preparation of sectoral/provincial strategic plans;
and (iii) provision of training to public officials involved in the design and implementation of investment projects at the
central and provincial levels.
Monitoring of the Implementation of the SIGIP. Prior assistance from other sources supported MINPLAN's efforts in
developing a System of Public Investment Management and Programming (SIGIP - Portuguese acronym). The main
objectives! of the SIGIP are: (i) formulation and implementation of a public investment management and programming
system, (ii) articulation of the PIP with the Government's program and annual State budget, (iii) articulation and
coordination of public investment at sectoral and provincial level and (iv) improvements in the technical capacity for
preparation and execution of public investment programs. This sub-component will provide support to the-monitoring
process of the SIGIP, which will involve the adoption of clearly identified and easily monitorable performance criteria
and subsequent training for the staff in charge of the monitoring process. The sub-component aims to support the
improvement of SIGIP methodological tools and routines already in place and develop further ones if necessary, as well
as the preparation of training programs for officials at central, sectoral and provincial levels.
Monitoring and Auditing of the Execution of the Public Investment Program. This sub-component will focus on the
financial and operational execution of the Public Investment Program. Financial monitoring will be based on the quarterly
budget execution reports prepared by MINFIN, with which close coordination should be sought. From an operational
35



standpoint, such monitoring will need to be based on a clear set of performance criteria, that will be put together as part of
this assistance. Activities will also involve subsequent training of the staff in charge of assessing the execution of the PIP.
Other Areas of Support to the SIGIP and the PIP. Other activities are particularly relevant to the key project
6bjective of strengthening the articulation between short- and medium-term planning and financing instruments, and, from
an institutional point of view, between MINPLAN and MINFIN: (i) Linking the PIP and the MTFS - The PIP is intended
to become a major component of a medium-term fiscal scenario, and as such close coordination should take place between
MINFIN and MINPLAN. Through the PIP, investment limits - on the basis of internal and extemal resources - over the
medium term can be made known to MINFIN, and incorporated in the spending plan of a medium-term fiscal scenario.
Support to this activity will be provided through the MTFS sub-component of the MINFIN component; (ii) Linking the
SIGIP and the SIGFE - Establishing the institutional and IT-related links between SIGIP and the SIGFE (Angola's
Integrated Financial Management Information System) is essential for the successful coordination between planning and
financing instruments, and should be seen as the basis for integrating the PIP in a future MTFS. Given the key issue of
articulation between short and medium-term planning and financing instruments, and consequently the important role of
PIP in the macroeconomic framework, support to this activity will be provided trough the MTFS sub-component of the
MINFIN component.
Activity            Task                 Duration/Period   Number of            Procurement
contracts            Method/Selection Criteria
- Strengthening the  Preparation of           2003-2004              1           Quality- and Cost-Based
process of preparation  methodologies for                                       Selection (QCBS)
and monitoring of the  harmonization of
Public Investment   sectoral and provincial
Program.            strategies.
Monitoring the
implementation of the
SIGIP.
Monitoring and
auditing the execution
of the PIP.
_  Training.                                       I
Output              (i) Report on
methodologies for
elaboration of plans and
programs prepared; (ii)
report on routines and
criteria for monitoring
the SIGIP prepared;
(iii) report establishing
criteria and routines for
monitoring and auditing
the execution of the PIP
prepared; and (iv)
training program
I designed and delivered. I
Amount              $480,000
36



Project Component 2 - US$4.9 million
Statistics Component
The component will finance a range of activities which are designed to strengthen the institutional, technical and financial
framework for sustainable production and policy-use of key micro and macro level information by the Instituto Nacional
de Estatisticas (INE). The program draws on joint efforts from several donors and it adopts the Common Minimum
Statistical Program (PROSMIC), proposed by AFRISTAT td member countries.
EMTA will be one of the instruments of support that the Government will rely on for the financing of its Five-Year Plan
for Statistics. Other donors likely to support the implementation of the Plan are the European Union, NORAD, UNICEF,
and the Portuguese Cooperation.
Support to INE will be made through four sub-components:
*  National Accounts and Trade Statistics
*   Sectoral Statistics
*  Poverty and PRSP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies
*  Integrated Surveys Program
Sub-Components
National Accounts and Trade Statistics. The National Accounts- subcomponent will finance technical assistance
amounting to (USD 357,000) to assist the statistical office in setting up modem systems of generating national accounts.
The implementation of National Accounts statistics in Angola will be based on the international framework SNA93
(System of National Accounts 1993), published by UN, OECD, IMF, the World Bank and the EC Commission. A step by
step approach for the implementation following UN proposed milestones/phases is envisaged. Other activities related to
national accounts are covered in the survey activities. These include: production surveys, survey of establishments, and
quarterly industrial surveys. Priority actions are shown in the table below.
Activity   Task                                              Duration/Period    No. of     Procurement
contracts   Method/Selec-
tion Criteria
National   External Trade Statistics: evaluation of the coverage, quality  2003-2004  1        QCBS
Accounts   and presentation of external trade statistics and presentation of
l   recommendations                               '
Implementation of SCN 93                           2003-2004                        Q CBS
Harmonization of financial and monetary statistics  2003-2004                       QCBS
Outputs    (i) Annual national accounts report based upon SNA93; (ii)  From 2005
Trade statistics - quarterly reports
Amount     USS 357,000
Sectoral Statistics. The sectoral statistics subcomponent will finance technical assistance in developing the capacity to
generate key sectoral statistics. Every sector will be covered but under the IDA credit, the following 5 sectors will be
covered: (i) Central and local Government (public) finance statistics; (ii) industrial statistics; (iii) wage and employment
statistics; (iv) education and health statistics; and (v) judicial statistics. The other sectors are being covered by other
donors.
37



a) Central and Local Government (Public) Finance statistics - Main sources are central and local government accounts,
which should cover all units of the general government. Government Finance statistics should be compiled using the same
definitions and classifications as in the national accounts system or with a direct link to these classifications. This would
facilitate an efficient and integrated system for the data flow from the government accounts to the IMF Government
Finance Statistics and the UN National Accounts system.
Activity         Tasks                                    Duration/Period  No. of Contracts  ProcurementMet
hod/Selection
Criteria
Government       Elaborate statistics on central and local  2003-2004           1             QCBS
finance statistics  government accounts needed to implement the
SNA93 production accounts
Elaborate statistics for establishing a full set of
government accounts according to SNA93
Output           Data sets for national accounts          From 2004
Amount           $ 42,000
b) Industrial statistics - Technical assistance will be provided in preparing the ground for launching an Annual
Harmonized Enterprise Survey, which is integral part of the Integrated Surveys Program subcomponent.
Activity         Tasks                                    Duration/Period  No. of Contracts  Procurement
Method/Selection
______________                                      _____________    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Criteria
Industrial statistics  Preparation for the launching of the annual  2003        1             QCBS
harmonized enterprise surveys
Output           Annual harmonized enterprise survey designed.
Amount           $ 84,000
c) Wage and employment statistics -
c. I   Statistics on employment, wages, social security and living conditions
Labor force statistics, comprising both formal and informal sector employment, as well as unemployment and
underemployment will be collected through the Household survey system to be developed.
Statistics on employment, wages and social security for the formal sector of the economy will be collected by the Ministry
of Public Administration, Labour and Social Security (MAPESS) as Orgao Delegado. The aim will be to implement the
annual admninistrative data collection for establishments on employment, salaries and social security, planned by the
Ministry, prepare data processing and analysis, as well as prepare the publication of formal sector employment based on
this survey and on the register on public sector employees.
Statistics on registered unemployment will be produced on the basis of the MAPESS administrative data collection system
to be implemented including information from the Employment Offices in the Provinces.
c.2 Informal sector survey
The informal sector plays an important role in the Angolan economy, and will account for a considerable input to the
National accounts. Hence there is a need to capture both employment, wages, earnings as well as production from the
38



informal sector. The informal sector survey will be split in two modules, one for household located business to be
conducted within the household survey program and one for separately located businesses to be conducted as a self
standing survey.
Activity      Tasks                                 Duration/Period  No. of    Procurement
Contracts  Method/Selection Criteria
Wage and                                            2003-2004            1              QCBS
employment
statistics
Informal      Develop, pilot and implement informal
sector survey  sector survey split in two modules,
household and separately located
businesses.
Output         Tabulation reports                    2004
Labor force   Review the data situation
statistics    Orgao Delegado formalised
Core labour force questions in the household
survey
Prepare annual survey in the Ministry
Annual survey carried out in the Ministry
and published
Output         Annual reports presenting information from INE household survey system and MAPESS
Amount        $ 63,000
d) Education and health statistics - In line with the Five-Year Plan, education and health statistics will be produced by two
main different sources: (i) the administrative records from all public schools will be elaborated through the Ministries of
Education and health as Orgao Delegado; and (ii) the Household survey system, both as part of the annual core or as an
extended module if needs arise. The aim in both cases will be to improve the coverage, quality and timeliness of the
information collected, as well as improve the analysis and dissemination of those statistics. Key activities are outlined
below.
Activity               Task                                       Duration/    No. of         Procurement
Period       Contracts       Method/Select
ion Criteria
Education and health   Review of existing data                     2003-2005         1            QCBS
statistics             Core education questions in the household survey
Plan regular data collection with the Ministries
First round of regular data collection in MoE and
MoH
Output                 Annual reports                             _from 2005                  _    _
Amount                 126,000
e) Judicial statistics - Justice statistics and indicators on criminality, based on administrative records will be collected
through the Ministry of Justice. The aim will be to improve the coverage, quality and timeliness of the information
collected, as well as improve the analysis and dissemination of those statistics. Statistics on victims of crime can be
collected periodically through the proposed system of Household Surveys. It is not envisaged that such a module will be
introduced during this Five-Year Plan period, but it will eventually be introduced.
39



Activity       Tasks                      Duration/Period  No. of Contracts  Procurement
Method/Selection
Criteria
Judicial                                  2003-2005               1              QCBS
statistics
Review of existing data
Establish the Orgao Delegado
Plan regular data collection
with the Ministry
First round of regular data
collection in Ministry of
Justice
Output         Annual reports                              From 2004
Amount         $ 42,000
Poverty and PRSP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies. The credit will finance priority studies in the following areas: (i)
Statistical notes; (ii) Short terrn economic indicators; (iii) Demographic and Social Indicators; (iv) Statistical Reviews; (v)
Priority Living conditions and Poverty studies.
During the lifetime of this credit, the following issues will be given priority to: (i) the establishment of a program of
annual monitoring of poverty and PRSP policy measures and indicators; (ii) capacity building to monitor statistical trends
based upon time series analysis; and (iii) provision of data for external analysis and studies.
Activity     Task                                        Duration/Period  No. of Contracts  Procurement
Method/Selection
Criteria
Poverty/     First poverty assessment, using 2001 data   2003 - 2004             1              QCBS
PRSP
monitoring,
analysis, and
studies
Further poverty studies/analyses            2003 - 2006             1              QCBS
Output       (i) Annual poverty/ PRSP monitoring report; (ii)  From 2004
other poverty studies.
Amount       USS 126,000
Integrated Surveys Program. The credit will support technical assistance up to USD 3.9 rnillion, to update the sampling
frame and cartographic base for selected provinces in Angola, and to launch a major program of integrated surveys.
Sampling for past surveys has been statistically inaccurate due to the lack of correct information on what the population of
Angola is, and where the population lives. The updated base will be used to: (a) create a sampling program in support of
the judicial inquest for assessing family makeup and adjunct family members; (b) to support the creation of a future
"General Census of the Population" and (c) to increase technology transfer and to provide state of the art in this field for
INE.
This subcomponent will finance technical assistance to support the statistical office in conducting the following surveys: a
series of Production Surveys; a Living Conditions Survey; an Income and Expenditure Survey; an Industry Harmonization
Survey; and an Annual Harmonized Enterprise Survey.
40



Activity         Tasks                                  Duration/Period  No. of Contracts  Procurement
Method/Selection
Criteria
Cartographic     Updating the sampling frame and cartographic  2003-2006      1            QCBS
Update           base for selected provinces in Angola
Implementation of  Production Survey I                     2003-2004          1            QCBS
the Integrated   Production Survey 11                     2004-2005           1            QCBS
Surveys Program  Production Survey III                    2005-2006           1            QCBS
Living Conditions Survey                  2003-2004          1            QCBS
Income and Expenditure Survey             2004-2005          1            QCBS
Industry Harmonization Survey               2004             1            QCBS
Enterprise Survey                           2004             1            QCBS
Outputs         (i) updated sample frame and cartographic base; (ii) datasets for internal tabulation, monitoring and external
analysis from the various surveys; (iii) annual economic sector publication based upon new register (from the
Enterprise Survey).
Amount           $ 3,910,000
Other Support. To facilitate the implementation of the technical assistance to INE, EMTA will finance the procurement
of goods (office equipment and computers) up to the estimated amount of US$ 173,800.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.1 million
Public Finance Component
The authorities have initiated preparation of a wide-ranging modernization program for the management of public
finances, the Public Finance Modemization Program (PMGFP, in Portuguese). The PMGFP has three broad components:
(i) improving the quality of the management of public finances ('Adequa9ao da Gestao"); (ii) adopting an IT-based
management style of public finances ("InformatizagRo da Gestao"); and (iii) training and capacity-building ("Formagao de
Quadros").
IDA's contribution will focus on areas complementary to those already covered by the ongoing assistance directly
contracted out by the Ministry of Finance. The ongoing assistance - which was hired for a one-year period - concentrates
principally on activities in budgeting, treasury and accounting that support the functioning of Angola's Integrated
Financial Management Information System (SIGFE, in Portuguese).
This component will strengthen the Government's ability to gear public finance instruments towards poverty reduction
and growth, by means of preparing the ground for a medium-term fiscal scenario which would be the rolling and evolving
financial counterpart of the Government's medium-term plan and the PRSP (a medium-term plan for 2003-2006, that will
encompass the PRSP is currently under preparation). In addition, it will support the Government's effort in improving key
aspects of increasing transparency, a more efficient resource mobilization and allocation and will assist in strengthening
the capacity of MINFIN's available human resources associated with the implementation of the Government's reform
program.
More specifically, the areas for direct IDA support will be: intemal control, the management of non-financial assets of the
State, public debt management, fiscal revenues, including the oil sector Financial Model, intergovernmental fiscal
relations, Medium-term fiscal scenario (MTFS), training, other complementary actions (SIGFE-related; procurement
reform).
41



Sub-Components
Internal Control Subcomponent (INF). The main objective of our assistance in this subcomponent is to help INF
become an effective internal control agency, by supporting its legal and administrative reform process and strengthening
its capacity to implement its work program.
The mandate of the National Inspectorate of Finance is defined as follows: the INF is the technical support agency within
MINFIN in charge of carrying out financial control activities of all budget units across the public administration as well as
of the State-owned enterprises. In collaboration with the National Tax Directorate (DNI), the INF can also conduct
financial control activities (mostly restricted to tax issues) of private companies. The INF was created in 1958, twenty
seven years before Independence, and to a great extent its work program still reflects legislation passed during colonial
times.
According to the Budget Framework Law (Law 9/97 - Lei Quadro do OGE), the internal control function is to be
"institutionalized" within NMINFIN, requiring complementary regulation through a Council of Ministers Decree, which
was never passed. The key legal document defining the responsibilities of the INF is MINFIN's own Charter (Estatuto
Organico, Council of Ministers' Decree 4/98). On the basis of Decree 4/98, INF has initiated work in the preparation of
draft regulations for itself, which represents the first major effort in conducting a legal and institutional reform of
MlNFIN's intemal control agency since its creation in 1958.
- Activity             Task                   Duration/Period       Number of consultancies/  Procurement
contracts              Method/Selection Criteria
Strengthening M[NFIN  Complete design of the      2003-2004                 1                    QCBS
internal control     institutional framework
capabilities          for INF.
Complete revision of
basic legislation.
Prepare up-to-date            2004                    1                    QCBS
manuals and guidelines.
Improve design of
curriculum for the career
of inspectors and design
training.
Output                (i) Diagnostic study,
including INF reform
action plan and timetable;
(ii) new curriculum for
I inspectors.
Amount                US$ 370,000
State Non-Financial Assets Management (DNPE). Differently from the Internal Control Subcomponent, the
implementation of this subcomponent will not necessarily involve a major overhaul of the implementing agency, namely,
the National Directorate for the Management of Non-Financial Assets of the State (Direc,do Nacional do Patrimonio do
Estado, DNPE). The key objective of this subcomponent is to help ensure that quality information on the non-financial
assets of the State is generated in order to increase coverage and accuracy of the General State Accounts (Conta Geral do
Estado, CGE). Indeed, lack of timely and accurate data on public debt and on State physical assets inventory prevents the
production of reliable "assets and liabilities accounting (contabilidade patrimonial). The key inputs from DNPE to the
CGE are information on the stock of State non-financial assets (balan,o patrimonial) as well as on yearly changes in that
stock (balanVo das varia,ces patrimoniais).
42



Activity                 Task                                 Duration/Period     Number of         Procurement
contracts         Method/Selection
Criteria
Strenghening DNPE's      Review of legislation.                     2003                                  QCBS
ability to generate quality
information on State non-
financial assets required for
the production of the
General State Accounts
(CGE).
Prepare plan for identification and       2003                                  QCBS
recording C"inventariaglo't) of the non-
financial assets of the State_
Establish standards and procedures for  2003-2004              1                QCBS
the acquisition, usage, donation,
scrapping and sales of non-financial
assets by the State.                               _        _
Harmonization with the overall system     2004                 1                QCBS
_____________________   of classification of expenditures  _           _
Support for the implementation of the     2004                 1                QCBS
new procedures                                                       _
Output                   (i) Legislation revised; (ii) "Plano de
inventariaqIo" prepared, with agreed
timetable for the actual "inventaria9lo"
to take place; (iii) Manual of norms,
standards and procedures prepared; (iv)
Report with proposal for harmonization
between the "classificador patrimonial",
the economic classification of
expenditures, and the General
Accounting Plan prepared.
Amount                   USS 640,000   _
Public Debt Management (DNT). Until recently, most external debt management work was done under the Direcgdo de
Capitais e Transaccoes Correntes (DTC) at the BNA. With support from another IDA credit (FINSEC), an UNCTAD-
designed Debt Management System, the DMFAS, was installed at BNA, although it is still in experimental phase. The
interface of DMFAS with MINFIN and BNA is yet to be established. In March 2001, the Government created a Public
Debt Committee, headed by the Minister of Finance and having as additional members the Minister of Planning and the
Govemor of BNA. The day-to-day public debt management activities have been mostly assumed, since then, by the
Executive Commission of the Public Debt Committee, led by the National Treasury Directorate (DNT). DTC/BNA still
handles external debt recording and accounting. The Executive Commission is viewed as a transitional arrangement, as
the Government is studying two options: either to transfer all public debt management activities to DNT, or to establish an
autonomous public debt management agency that reports directly to the Minister of Finance. As part of its efforts to
rationalize public debt management, the National Assembly approved a new Public Debt Framework Law.
43



Activity                 Task                     Duration/Period  Number of consultancies/  Procurement
________________________     ________________  contracts              M ethod/Selection  Criteria
Improving public debt   Assessment of the conditions   2003      _                        QCBS
management, control and  and requirements for the
recording.              transfer of all public debt
management activities to
MINFIN.
DFMAS: purchase and           2003                                NCB
installation of hardware.
DFMAS: (i) In-corporation     2004                  I             SS (extension of contract
of intemal debt model; (ii)                                       with UNCTAD consultant)
training.
Output                  (i) Report assessing the most
appropriate institutional
arrangement for public debt
management finalized; (ii)
infrastructure for installation
of DFMAS in MINFIN and
MINPLAN ready; (iii)
DFMAS training program
I designed and delivered
Amount                   USS 295,000
Fiscal Revenues (DNI). IDA assistance to DNI through the EMTA credit will provide support to the ongoing tax reform
process by focusing on two key policy objectives: (i) to help increase reliability of oil and non-oil revenue projections,
thereby strengthening the Government's capacity to produce the revenue side of an eventual Medium-Term Fiscal
Scenario (see section VIII below); and (ii) to help reduce dependency on oil taxes by strengthening the Government's
capacity to collect non-oil tax revenues, through punctual interventions geared towards improving tax legislation and
administration. Needless to say, assistance in these areas will be very closely coordinated with the Fiscal Affairs
Department of the IMF.
The National Tax Directorate is responsible for the design and execution of the tax policy and to carry out admninistration,
collection and control of revenue. In addition, the DNI prepares the revenue side of the budget, including oil taxes (based
on estimated production and-price per barrel) and non-oil taxes. As there are no provincial or municipal taxes in Angola,
only the central Government has the ability to levy taxes. Angola's tax structure comprises five main categories: (i) taxes
on net income and profits; (ii) social security contributions; (iii) taxes on goods and services; (iv) taxes on international
transactions; and (v) other taxes.
A tax reform is underway. The Government intends to rationalize the tax system during the 2002-2005 period, beginning
with the establishment of a single sales tax with broad coverage, followed by the rationalization of income and profit
taxes, and by the establishment of a single property tax and a value added tax. A large taxpayers unit and a fiscal reform
committee to coordinate tax and customs reforms have been recently created. Despite its relative complexity, the vast
majority of Angola's tax revenues are generated by three taxes: a) the petroleum production tax, PPT - tax on the value of
the oil, paid by oil companies operating in joint venture with Sonangol; b) the petroleum income tax, PIT - tax on the
profits of oil companies; c) the petroleum transactions tax, PTT - tax on gross profit, adjusted for tax incentives, arising
from production in the province of Cabinda under joint exploration arrangements with Sonangol.
a) Increasing reliability of revenue projections - DNI has requested assistance from IDA in the form of provision of a
consultancy to help improve the quality of projections and monitoring of tax revenues in general, and to help assess trends
in revenue collection.
44



Activity                  Task                                         Duration/Period  Number of     Procurement
Contracts     Method/Selection
_____ _____ _____ ____   _____ _ __   Criteria
Improving the quality of  Assessment of quality of existing tax revenue     2004                           QCBS
projections and monitoring  projections and monitoring system.
of tax revenues in general.  Design of improved routines and procedures for tax
revenue projections and monitoring.
Design training program (see section X - to be
delivered under Training subcomponent)
Output                   (i) Diagnostic study, proposed guidelines and
implementation action plan, including timetable; (ii)
training program designed.                  -
Amount                    USS 200,000
In the particular case of oil revenues, IDA will support the implementation of the Financial Model currently under
preparation in the context of the ongoing Oil Sector Diagnostic Study, commissioned by MINFIN to the consulting firm
KPMG. The Financial Model is a powerful tool with which to generate reliable information of value for planning and
financing purposes. The model can also be used to reveal future gross revenue, investment and cost figures, and resulting
Govemment revenues and borrowing head-room, as well as Sonangol and contractor NCFs, under a range of assumptions
about price and pace of sector development. In order to produce such results, however, the Financial Model will need to
be institutionalized in MINFIN.
Institutionalization of the Financial Model will require a number of actions: (1) agreement on the terms of reference for
the unit within MINFIN which will house the Model, its administrative structure, and its reporting responsibilities; (2)
Identification of the unit's staffing and equipment needs; (3) Design and implementation of a training program focusing
on: (i) petrzoleum accounting (both tax and contractual accounting); (ii) petroleum economics (including tax design and
contractual: profit-sharing provisions); (iii) tax administration; (iv) audits; (v) information technology; and (vi) the design
and use of the Financial Model itself, including data collection and scenario modeling. Training should be structured to
include field visits or short-term secondments (e.g., Offshore Oil Tax Office in the UK; oil company planning or tax
departments; oil auditing firms).
Activity           Task                                            Duration/Period  Number of      Procurement
Contracts     Method/Selection
.______________ ____________________________  _Criteria
Institutionalization  Identification of terms of reference for the unit, its  2003        1        QCBS
of the Financial   administrative structure, and its reporting
Model.             responsibilities.
Identification of the unit's staffing and equipment needs.
Design of a training program.
Implementation of the training program                2004             I        QCBS
Provision of equipment                                2003             1        NCB
Output             (i) Report prepared that fully identifies the unit's TORs,
administrative structure; reporting responsibilities,
staffing and equipment needs; (ii) training program
designed; (iii) training program implemented. _
Amount             USS 350,000
45



b) Strengthening aspects of tax legislation and administration - IDA assistance will not cover all aspects of tax policy and
tax administration. It will focus on two key weaknesses in the system: (i) the fact that tax legislation is disperse (and some
of the basic legislation predates Independence) and that there is no single framework law on taxes; and (ii) the fact that,
due to lack of capacity, DNI relies heavily on taxpayers' self-assessments and other institutions' databases to conduct
assessment of Government revenue. In that regard, EMTA will support revision of current legislation in light of the
ongoing tax reform, and will help strengthen revenue assessment and taxpayers' compliance by reviewing existing
routines in the conduct of tax inspections (including on-the-job training of tax inspectors).
Activity                      Task               Duration/Period          Number of       Procurement
contracts       Method/Selection
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _C riteria
Review of legal    Revision of legislation in light of    2004                  1         QCBS
framework for the  ongoing tax reform.
tax system        Implementation of legislation           2005                  1         QCBS
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ refo rm__                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Output             Draft legislation prepared and
submitted to Council of Ministers
and National Assembly, as
applicable.
Amount             USS 300,000
Activity                 Task                      Duration/Period  Number of consultancies/  Procurement
contracts               Method/Selection
Criteria
Strengthening revenue    Review of existing routines    2004                  1             QCBS
assessment and taxpayers'  in the conduct of tax
compliance               inspections (including on-
the-job training of tax
inspectors).
Support to the establishment   2005                  1             QCBS
of a Fiscal Court
Output                   (i) Manual of procedures for
tax inspectors - consistent
with revised legislation -
prepared; (ii) Fiscal court:
diagnostic, assessment, and
action plan prepared.   I
Amount                   USS 300,000              _
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. With the peace process, it is unavoidable that Angola will need to face the issue of
intergovernmental relations (including fiscal decentralization) in the near future. Therefore, it will be necessary to review
and reformulate the existing intergovernmental relations system with a view at establishing a functional fiscal structure at
the territorial level, clearly determining the responsibilities of local and provincial authorities over expenditure allocations
and tax collection matters. Tax sharing, responsibilities over expenditures and provision of public services,
intergovernmental fiscal transfers e and the possibility of access to credit markets are essential themes, still in need of
treatment under a consistent legal framework. Policy decisions in this area, however, will need to be preceded by a
diagnostic that analyses Angola's historical experience with decentralization, to be complemented by the analysis of
46



international experiences of other countries with an unitary regime, which could help provide useful benchmarks for a
model of intergovernmental relations appropriate to Angola.
Activity               Task                                Duration/Period  Number of      Procurement
Contracts       Method/Selection
Criteria
Intergovernmental fiscal  Phase 1: diagnostic of current situation  2004         1             QCBS
relations: Assessment of
current conditions and
analysis of policy options
Phase 2: preparation of an action plan, with  2005
technical proposals and draft revised
legislation.
Output                 Diagnostic study, including action plan and
Amount'____________    proposed timetable.                                   _
Amount                 USS 100,000
The Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario. A brief examination of Angola's fiscal numbers over the past five or six years
suffices to show a picture of severe fiscal difficulties: an unusually large share of total expenditures in GDP; the
excessively high share of defense and public order expenditures in the budget, crowding-out social sector spending; a
near-complete reliance on revenues generated by the oil sector; the absence of any mechanism with which to protect tax
revenues from international oil price volatility; the consistent resorting to accumulation of domestic and external arrears to
cover overall fiscal deficits; and the presence of unacceptably large extra-budgetary and quasi-fiscal expenditures.
Although a fiscal scenario oriented to the medium term cannot be seen as a panacea for all these problems, it can be a very
useful instrument with which important development issues under the responsibility of MINFIN can be addressed. On the
medium-term expenditure side, much can be done to gear the composition of public expenditures increasingly towards
poverty reduction, by consistently improving social sector spending; to reduce the budgetary burden represented by debt
service., by means of the design and adoption of a medium-term oriented public (external and internal) debt policy and
strategy; and to ensure that a Public Investment Program consistent with Angola's medium-term reconstruction needs will
be adequately funded and executed. On the medium-term revenue side, much progress can be made in devising
mechanisms to protect the State revenues from oil-price volatility, and in improving the efficiency and transparency in the
management of oil tax revenues and one-off signature bonuses.
This subcomponent will support the realization of analytical work to assess: (i) Angola's level of preparedness to move in
the next few years to a medium-term approach to expenditure planning and revenue projection; and (ii) the practical
actions required to design and implement a medium-term fiscal scenario consistent with the PRSP and the Government's
medium-term planning process.
47



Activity                 Task                           Duration/Period  Number of         Procurement
Contracts        Method/Selection
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~Criteria
Assessment of the        Assessment of Angola's level of     2005               1          QCBS
conditions and steps     preparedness to adopt a medium-
required for the        term approach to expenditure
implementation of a      planning and revenue projection
MTFS.
Identification of the actions for the
design and implementation of a
MTFS consistent with the PRSP
and the Medium-Term Plan
Output                   Diagnostic study, including action
.____________ _  plan and proposed timetable.
Amount                   USS 150,000
Procurement RefornL This subcomponent will support the implementation of the most urgent measures that
were foreseen in the CPAR action plan. The total cost of the component is estimated at US$ 1.2 million. It will
mainly finance technical assistance, consultancy services and training workshops/study tours. The services will
be required to (i) recruit an international lawyer specialized in procurement to draft, with assistance of the
national legal team, the legal and regulatory framework of the procurement system; (ii) to help the Government
formulate its procurement policy and review the actual organization and design/propose the reorganization of a
directorate at, or creation a body to play the role of Central Tender Board under the aegis of MINFIN to enable
it to supervise and regulate the procurement processing; (iii) provide technical assistance to strengthen the
procurement capacity within three pilot ministries, among those undertaking the largest spenders of public
funds for purchase or investment; and (iv) organize workshops and trainings or study tours abroad to sensitize
high-level staff in ministries and their procurement staff on the procurement issues in the country.
Activity                 Task                                   Duration/Period  Number of         Procurement
Contracts         Method/Selectio
n Criteria
Legal and regulatory    Review procurement legislation               2003                              QCBS
framework for public     In light of CPAR recommendations
procurement in Angola   formulate outlines of legal/regulatory
reform
Draft procurement Law, including main
procedures
Draft Regulations including Standard
Bidding Documents
Output                  (i) Draft Law (ii) Draft Regulations, and
(iii) Standard Bidding Documents
Amount                  USS 250,000                                                   .
48



Activity                Task                                 Duration/Period  Number of      Procurement
Contracts      Method/Selection
.__________________  _______________________________  ___________Criteria
Reorganization of a     Formulation of procurement policy      2003-2004           1              QCBS
directorate at, or create a  Perform procurement analysis: set up a
body to play the role of  system to receive and analyze
CTB under the aegis of  information
MINFIN to enable it to  Set up system of communication with
supervise procurement.  ministries, provinces and private sector
Procedures and routines for overseeing
compliance with regulations
Provision of equipment                    2003              1              NCB
Outputs                (i) Proposed policy guidelines (ii)
analysis on procurement ( data) (iii)
Proposed mechanism/ structure to
oversee compliance with regulations
Amount                  US$ 140,000
Activity                Task                                 Duration/Period  Number of      Procurement
Contracts      Method/Selection
Criteria
Strengthening the       Propose sound organization of           2004-2005
procurement capacity    procurement processing
within three pilot      Introduce record-keeping in three pilot
ministries.             Ministries
Introduce the use of SBDs
Outputs                (i) Sound organization and record-
keeping; (ii) good practices and use of
SBDs
Amount                  USS 200,000
49



Activity              Task                               Duration/Period  Number of   Procurement
Contracts     Method/Selection
.__ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ _   C riteria
Strengthening the     Train procurement staff in pilot     2004-2006          1            QCBS
procurement capacity  ministries on good procurement
within three pilot    practices and procedures
ministries.           Workshops and trainings or study tours
abroad to sensitize high-level staff in
ministries and their procurement staff on
the procurement issues in the country
Outputs               (i) Qualified civil servants in
procurement ; (ii) High level and
procurement staff awareness increase
about good procurement benefits and
issues in the system.
Amount                US$ 600,000
Training Subcomponent (INFORSEF). INFORSEF, MINFIN's training institute, will be the vehicle through which the
Bank can deliver its support to MINFIN's request for strengthening the capacity of its human resources.
INFORSEF is a well-equipped institute, with three classrooms that can accommodate up to 20 people; one room with ten
computers for hands-on training involving the use of computer software; one seminar room for up to 15 people; and
modem learning resources (including overhead projectors and an LCD panel). With these resources, the institute can cater
for up to 160 people per day (80 per half day). Therefore, in terms of facilities, the institute is fully adequate to conduct
in-house training, which shall be the focus of the Bank's assistance.
A training program was elaborated in consultation with the various areas of MINFIN more than two years ago but never
adequately implemented. The institute has specifically requested Bank's financial and technical assistance in three areas:
To help coordinate the design and implementation of a revised training program for MINFIN, in conjunction with
MINFIN's various National Directorates and the National Inspectorate of Finance; To cover the costs of trainers,
preferably foreign; and To cover the costs of training costs to be conducted in the provinces.
Activity                Task                             Duration/Period  Number of  Procurement
Contracts   Method/Selection
Criteria
Designing and           Design of training program       3 months/2003       I       IC
implementing MINFIN's   Implementation of training program  2004-2006        3       IC
training program for DNO,  Provision of equipment        2003                1       NCB
DNC, DNT, DNI, DNPE,
IN F                       _     _     _     _     _  _     _     _     _     _
Output                  Full training program designed and
implemented.
Amount                  US$ 450,000
Interface with SIGFE. The aim of this subcomponent is to ensure consistency between IDA-funded assistance with the
ongoing work on the SIGFE by the consultants directly hired by MINFIN, particularly from the point of view of
methodologies, routines, procedures and IT compatibility. Three MINFIN agencies will be contemplated by this
subcomponent: INF, DNPE, and DNT (in charge of DMFAS, the debt management software.
50



Activity             Task                 Duratiorn/Period  Number of           Procurement
Contracts             Method/Selection
Criteria
Interface with SIGFE  Ensuring compatibility  2004                 1                   QCBS
of reforms at INF, DNT,
and DNPE with the
SIGFE
Output               Interface with SIGFE
established
Amount               US$ 750,000
Project Component 4 - US$4.21 million
Central Bank Operations Component
Supporting BNA's Restructuring Process .This subcomponent will comprise two activities:
(a) Improving BNA's internal controls
The strengthening of BNA's internal controls was addressed in FINSEC by improving BNA's accounting. As a result,
BNA today has auditable accounts. Ernst and Young completed the first audit ever of BNA on their 1999 accounts.
However, the accounts are still published relatively late (BNA's objective is to publish the 2000 accounts and to audit the
2001 accounts before the end of the 2002 calendar year). Further, BNA does not yet have an independent internal audit
and control unit. This sub-component aims at addressing these two issues, by further strengthening BNA's accounting
capabilities and to establish an internal audit and control unit.
This sub-component will mainly build intemal capacity by training BNA staff in accounting skills and by establishing and
training staff for the intemal audit and control unit.
(b) Restructuring overall human resources of BNA
The Central Bank underwent a major transformation in the past ten years, when it evolved from being the major player in
a quasi mono-banking environment, performing most commercial banking activities, to a pure central bank today.
However, this transition entailed the sometimes difficult downsizing of the overall humnan resources of BNA.
Recent studies have outlined the required strengthening of several departments of BNA. However, to best meet the human
resources demands, the project will support the development of an overall staffing plan. This will require a specialized a
review (study) of the present staff skill profiles, the definition of the required skill mix, and the identification of missing
and surplus staff skills for optimum distribution.
Once the staff mix is defined, a second study must evaluate the retraining potential and identify staff which cannot be
kept. For the latter, a retrenchment assessment, including the determination of the required severance payment, will be
prepared. This should support BNA's restructuring efforts, which will allow BNA to balance its operations and financial
accounts.,
51



Activity              Task                     Duration/Period        Number of               Procurement
contracts               Method/Selection
Criteria
Supporting BNA's       Identification of terms of   2003-2004                   1             QCBS
Restructuring Process  reference for the intemal
control unit, its
administrative structure,
and its reporting
responsibilities.
Identification of the unit's
staffing and equipment
needs.
Design of a training            2003                     1             QCBS
program on accounting
skills
Implementation of the       2003 - 2005                  2             CQ
training program
Design of a staffing plan       2003                     1             QCBS
for BNA
Output                 (i) Report prepared that
fully identifies the unit's
TORs, administrative
structure; reporting
responsibilities, staffing
and equipment needs; (ii)
training program
designed; (iii) training
program implemented;
(iv) staffing plan
designed.
Amount                 US$ 750,000
Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills. This sub-component supports training initiatives for strengthening BNA
staff banking skills in two domains: (i) BNA's Supervision Department (Direc,ao de Supervisdo Banc&ria -DSB), and,(ii)
the Central Bank's Economic Research Department (Direc,do de Estudos e Estatisticas - DEE). Both departments have
already be strengthened by FINSEC. However, a recent study about BNA's internal capacities revealed that further
training is necessary'.
The project will, in cooperation with other donors and institutions, such as the Bank of Portugal, the South Africa Reserve
Bank, the Banque de France in Paris, and the World Bank Institute (WBI) in Washington DC, support relevant training
for bank supervision and economic research. The training will include, both, the traditional tasks and new challenges of
the financial sector (e.g. payment systems, anti-money laundering, and reserves management). In order to assure best
selection, participating staff of BNA will be chosen in a competitive process. The training will also be performed by
specialized long term consultants.
'Study by Spanish consultants: "Proyecto de Reestructuraci6n del Banco Nactional de Angola", by SchlumbergerSema, July 2002
52



Activity            Task                  Duration/Period     Number of             Procurement
contracts            Method/Selection
Criteria
Strengthening of BNA  Bank supervision:       2003-2004                1            QCBS
Staff Banking Skills  design and
implementation of
training program
Study Tour: Sao Paulo       2004                   1           QCBS
Stock Exchange
Macroeconometric          2003-2004                1           QCBS
models: design and
implementation of
training program
Study Tour: Central         2005                   1           CQ
Bank of Italy, on
RTGS operations and
monitoring
Improving the             2003-2005                            QCBS
timeliness and
regularity of
documnents produced
by Studies and
Statistics Department.
Output              (i) Training programs
designed and
delivered; (ii) Study
Tours completed; (iii)
Documents from
Studies and Statistical
Department published
on a timely basis.
Amount              US$ 550,000
Payments System. As result of the work carried out since November 1998 with the support of FINSEC, the Government
approved, in January 2000, the Angola Payment Systems Project (SPA) - Architecture and Implementation Strategy.
This work was led by BNA in partnership with financial institutions and other Angolan stakeholders.
The SPA Project envisions the establishment, by year 2004, of a safe and efficient domestic payment system, adequately
designed for cross border links.  Four specific objectives were articulated: implementation of the technical and
technological infrastructure which meets current domestic needs with the flexibility to expand without jeopardizing safety
and efficien cy; adoption of adequate risk control measures, settlement mechanisms and processes, which will allow cross
border links with other settlement systems namely with SADC countries; provision of services and payment instruments
adapted to important sectors of the Angolan economy, with an incentive to use electronic funds transfer from the payer;
provision of simple payment services to all, even in less economically attractive regions.
BNA is in charge of the overall SPA Project coordination and execution and within BNA, there are five teams working on
different themes: RTGS; Securities Management System; Physical Safety of the Processing Centers, Informatics Strategic
Plan and the automation of SWIFT. BNA already issued an Aviso 3/2001 to define risk mitigation measures for the
differed net settlement system handling low value payments. For small value payment which are not time critical, BNA
and the commercial banks have established the Interbank Services Provider (EMIS) to operate ATMs and POS network.
In February 2002, with the support of Bank of Portugal, the software for Markets Management and Assets - GEMA, was
53



integrated in BNA systems. Data are currently being loaded in the module "Securities Primary Market". What is missing
is the secure and rapid clearing and settlement system for large and time critical amounts. This is the Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) System. Such system also allows settlement among all the various modules.
Related to the establishment of an RTGS system, two additional necessary tasks were identified: (i) improvement of the
physical safety of BNA central processing installations (primary and redundant sites); and (ii) suitability of BNA internal
informatics site to RTGS. The key activities are described in more detail below:
Activity            Task                   Duration/Period       Number of             Procurement
contracts             Method/Selection
Criteria
Implementing the     Acquisition and            2003-2004                 1            International
Real Time Gross      installation of RTGS                                              Competitive Bidding
Settlement System    equipment
Acquisition and              2003                    1            QCBS
installation of, and
technical assistance for
RTGS software.
Ensuring physical          2003-2004                 4            CQ/NCB
safety of BNA
processing centers.
Output               (i) RTGS equipment
and software installed;
and (ii) physical safety
of BNA central
processing installations
improved.
Amount               US$ 2,900,000
54



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ANGOLA. Economic Management Technical Assistance
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
Planning                                                  0.07         0.48          0.55
Statistics                                                0.88         4.92          5.80
Public Finance                                            1.12         5.10          6.22
Central Bank Operations                                   0.73         4.21          4.94
PIU Costs                                                 0.44          1.35         1.79
Total Baseline Cost                                       3.24         16.06        19.30
Physical Contingencies                                   0.16          0.54         0.70
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costsl              3.40        16.60        20.00
Total Financing Required              3.40         16.60        20.00
~LQtal       FoeJ otal
ProJect Cost By Catod.ry                US$illio    IS -.MFilion'  US Smillion
Goods                                                       0.19          1.05         1.24
Works                                                       0.15          0.84         0.99
Consultant Services and Audits                              2.19         12.42         14.61
Training                                                    0.00          1.37          1.37
Operating Costs                                             0.71          0.38          1.09
Contingencies                                               0.16          0.54         0.70
Total Project Costs'     3.40          16.60        20.00
Total Financing Required      3.40         16.60         20.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are O(USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 20(USrSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 8i/o of
total project cost net of taxes.
55



Annex 4
Summary of benefits and costs
ANGOLA. Economic Management Technical Assistance
The project's institution building characteristics does not allow for an accurate calculation of
rates of return. However, investment in technical assistance and information technology will
lead to improvements in planning, in strengthening the national statistical system, to a more
transparent and efficient public finance management and to a greater transparency and efficiency
in conducting monetary policy. Improving technical capacity of govemment officials should also
lead to improved performance and efficiency gains.
56



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
Years Ending
_ Year1 I    Year2 2   Year3 3   Year4 4    Year5   I Year 6  |   ear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           5.2       8.0        3.1       1.6       0.9        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.5        0.3       0.2       0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          5.7       8.3        3.3       1.7       1.0        0.0      0.0
,Total Financing             5.7        8.3       3.3        1.7       1.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  4.8        7.0       2.7        1.4       0.7       0.0       0.0
Government                1.0        1.3       0.5        0.3       0.2       0.0       0.0
Central                1.0        1.3       0.5        0.3       0.2       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-flnanciers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiarles      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       TO        0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     5.8       8.3        3.2       1.7       0.9       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
57



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
Procurement
The project has the following components of support to: (i) National Bank of Angola (BNA);
(ii) Ministry of Planning, (iii) INE for Statistics related activities; (iii) Ministry of Finance,
including for Procurement reform activities; and (iv) PIU for project management and
implementation activities.
The Ministry of Planning will have overall responsibility for the implementation of the project,
will establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIJ) to manage the project. The PIU, will include
a Project Administrator, a Financial Controller, and a Procurement Specialist trained in Bank's
procurement rules, will be responsible for (a) carrying out all the procurement for the project,
including the needs fro the PIU itself. The PIJ will report to the Project Coordinator (Vice
minister of planning). There will be a Steering Committee reporting to the Project Coordinator
to coordinate and monitor the progress of the project. The Component Managers of each of the
components supported by the project will also be members of this steering committee.
Procurement work for all the components will be centralized at the PIU.
The Project is already in position and the current Project Administrator is familiar with Bank
procurement. A Procurement Officer is to be recruited; the TORs for this position have been
drafted. The Procurment officer is expected to be in postion by March 2003. The Procurement
Officer will the main technical expert in the Procurement Unit and will benefit from on-the-job
training by an internationally-hired procurement expert. It is surmised that additional
procurement staff may not be required particularly as the Project Administrator is also familiar
with procurement work and will be available to assist.
IDA financing will primarily support (i) consulting services (ii) equipment and supplies (iii)
works and (iv) training. Under the Statistics component, a series of surveys are to be conducted
on the basis of competitive bids for award of contracts to organized entities to carry out the field
work with overall supervision, quality control being managed by the INE.
Procurement Procedures
Consulting services, goods and works financed by IDA under this project will be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (the Consultant Guidelines) published in January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, and the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. For any International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods and works, the
implementing agencies will use Standard Bidding Documents and contracts issued by the Bank.
For the selection of consulting firms, the implementing agencies will use the Request For
Proposal (RFP) for selection of consulting firms and contracts issued by the Bank. For works
and goods under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) the implementing agencies will prepare
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) documents accepted by the Bank. For procurement of
58



works under US$50,000 and goods under $50,000 fixed price contracts will be awarded on the
basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers after evaluation of bids
received in writing.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for
each method are summarized in Table A. The proposed threshold contract values for the use of
each method are shown in Table B.
A. Equipment and supplies (US$ 1.05m)
The Project would finance computer hardware and software upgrades, office equipment, and
communication equipment and some limited procurement of supplies in each of the
components.
To the extent possible and practicable, equipment and supplies to be purchased for each of
the components would be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk purchase.
Each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more would be procured
under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Each contract for goods
estimated to cost between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000, would be procured through NCB
using procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US$ 50,000 would be
procured under Intemational Shopping (IS) or National Shopping procedures as detailed in
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits"
Procurement of Works ($0.84m)
Larger works contracts(individual contract value - local costs and IDA support -- US$
200,000 and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. These contracts are expected to be
awarded for the computer room facilities to be created.
Smaller-value works contracts(individual value less than US$ 100,000 equivalent) will be
awarded on the basis of NCB. It has been agreed that procedures for NCB to be used and the
tender documents to be used will be based on the Bank Standard Tender Documents for all
NCB. Minor works contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent be procured
on the basis of at least three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which
will include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion time, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. These minor works are mainly relate to the physical establishment of the PIU.
59



Selection of Consultants
B. Consultancy Services (US$ 12.42m) - including Statistical Survey contracts (US$3.9
m)
Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance and support of
project execution will be carried out in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines (Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank borrowers, January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999).
As a rule, consultant services will be procured through Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
methodology (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of
the services to be provided. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost US$ 200,000 or
more would be procured through QCBS and would be advertised in Development Business
(UNDB) and in at least one national newspaper. In addition, the scope of the service will be
advertised in an international newspaper or magazine seeking "expressions of interest." In the
case of assignments estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000, the assignment may be
advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants,
provided that at least three qualified national firms or consultants are available in the country
and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
However, for surveys under INE component, special contract format under procurement
methodology for services on a competitive basis may be adopted.
Firms: All contracts for firms, except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or less, would be procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) in accordance with Chapter II of the Consultant Guidelines. Services for tasks that
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines and are
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured in accordance
with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Shortlists of
consulting firms for services estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract
may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines, unless international eligible consultants have
expressed interest.
Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment and hired in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Operating Costs
Operating costs such as office supplies, telephone charges, fuel and maintenance for project
vehicles, in-country travel, document reproduction, and similar items may be procured using
administrative procedures as set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and which are
acceptable to IDA. The plan and budget for the PIU's Operating Costs will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank annually.
60



Prior Review of Procurement by the World Bank and the Project Coordination Unit
"Prior review" refers to the submission of procurement documents for "no objection" by the
the World Bank according to the Procurement Guidelines or the Project Coordination Unit.
The proposed thresholds for pnror review by Bank are summarized in Table B.
Actions that will be taken to minimize risks of procurement problems are: (i) provision of
training in procurement to all staff of the PIU and the Procurement Officer (ii) preparation of
a procurement plan with the participation of all the relevant institutions and individuals; and
(iii) creation of a monitoring and filing system for all procurement actions which would be
maintained by the PIUJ's Procurement Specialist.
Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the World Bank and the Component Managers and the Project Administrator
prepared the draft final version of the procurement plan for the project which provides the
basis for the procurement methods and indicative aggregate amount for each (per Table A).
At the beginning of each calendar year, the PIU will update the Procurement Plan with a
detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
. .                   ~. ' 1. Q r  ; . I-  -  .  i'Procuremert Method  -.
2
Expenditure-Category           IC   =         NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works.                          0.93            0.06         0.00          0.00       0.99
(0.80)          (0.04)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.84)
2. Goods                           0.89            0.35          0.00         0.00        1.24
.__________________________  (0.77)    (0.28)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (1.05)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         14.61         0.00       14.61
l                                (0.00)          (0.00)       (12.42)      (0.00)     (12.42)
4. Training                        0.00            0.00          1.37         0.00        1.37
l__________________________      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.37)       (0.00)      (1.37)
5. 'Operational Costs              0.00            0.00          1.09         0.00        1.09
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.38)       (0.00)      (0.38)
Total                            1.82            0.41         17.07        0.00        19.30
.__________________________      (1.57)          (0.32)       (14.17)      (0.00)      (16.06)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be funanced by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management,office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to managing the project.
61



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts SubJect to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expendiure Category       (US$ thousands)             Method                 (US$ millions)
1. Works                         >100                    ICB                       All
>50 and < 100               NCB                   1st year: All
2nd year onward: half by
WB
< 50                 3 quotations           First three cases
2. Goods                         >100                    ICB                       All
>50 and <100                NCB                    1st year: all
2nd year onward: half by
WB
<50                  3 quotations           First three cases
3. Services
Firms                            >100                    QCBS                      All
<100                     CQ                    I st year: all
2nd year onward: half by
WB
Individuals                      >50                      IC              All (TOR, contract, CV)
<50                      IC                 First three cases
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 15.08 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 4 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult 'Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
62



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Scope of the assessment
Based on project implementation arrangements, the overall responsibility for financial
management will remain with the PIU located in the Ministry of Planning (MINPLAN) which
constitutes one component of the project. The PIU will comprise the following key staff: a
Coordinator, an Administrator and a Financial Officer. The three remainiing components
concerning the National Institute of Statistics (NE), the Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) and the
National Bank of Angola (BNA) will receive from the project equipment and technical assistance
and as such will be considered as beneficiaries. Accordingly, the scope of the assessment has
been limited to the PIU with the objectives that the arrangements in place will allow for smooth
implementation of project's activities and use of the proceeds of the Credit only for the purposes
for which it is granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency, and the sustainable achievement
of the project's development objectives.
PIU financial management capacity
During the pre-appraisal mission, the PIU was not yet created and the capacity in place was
limited. As a result, the assessment of its financial management capacity at this stage of project
cycle consisted rather in reviewing the borrower's plans, identifying the needs to be fulfilled,
advising on the design of the proposed financial management system (organization structure,
manual of procedures including accounting, budgeting, financial systems and procedures,
staffing, financial reporting and auditing). The objective is to have a fully established and
functional PIU to declare the project effective so that at the outset of the implementation of the
activities, the PIU has the appropriate accounting, internal control, and the relevant financial
reporting systems in place. This will allow the PIU to (i) reliably record and report the financial
transactions of the project in a timely manner, including those transactions involving the use of
Bank funds; and (ii) provide sufficient and relevant financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities. All these considerations have been taken into account to define the
financial management proposed below.
During the appraisal mission of August 2002. the capacity of the PIR has increased in the
meantime based on the following achievements: (i) the PRI is in the Rrocess of being
formally established: (ii) the financial management systems have been develoRed and are
ready for functioning: (iii) a Manual of procedures is being prepared: and (iv) the format and
content of the FMRs have been defined and agreed on.
Financial Manaaement
The PIU will have the overall responsibility of the project financial management. It will have to
63



maintain the accounts of the project as a whole. To that end, the financial management system
will include accounting and reporting systems, internal controls and audit. The accounting and
reporting systems will be based on a spreadsheet (Excel) which comprises the following: (i)
record of payments made through the Special Account; (ii) record of disbursements through the
IDA Credit and reimbursements to the Special Account; (iii) record of disbursements grouped by
category of expenditure, by component and by source of funding; (iv) list of contracts, including
their total amount and expenditures incurred and dates of signature and approval; (v) record of
expenditures and deposits in the Project Account; (vi) individual records by contract/supplier
including the total amount and identification and record of amounts paid; and (vii) record of
fixed assets, including their operational status and the area to which they are allocated. This kind
of spreadsheet has been used under the FINSEC Project and has proven to meet its financial
management needs. However, it has been agreed during pre-appraisal that the spreadsheet had to
be upgraded to permit a classification of the expenditures by activity under each component. A
fully functioning financial management system satisfactory to the Bank is considered as a
condition of credit effectiveness. During appraisal, a Bank FMS reviewed the financial
management system and found it acceptable to the Bank.
A Manual of procedures is being prepared which will include a description of salient features of
the financial management system and financial policies and procedures. It will describe: (i) the
overall organization of the project including an organizational diagram and job description of the
accounting and financial staff; (ii) the accounting system which will be on a cash basis; (iii) the
main transactions cycles; format, content, and timing of the project's financial reporting, i.e.,
financial statements and other financial reports including FMRs, filing system, etc.; (iv) the
various operational procedures including budget management (planning, execution and
monitoring) and management of assets, procurement of goods and services, disbursement; and
(v) internal control procedures. During appraisal, a draft of the Manual has been submitted to the
Bank. This document needs to be finalized and resubmitted before effectiveness.
The preparation of a Manual of procedures acceptable to the Bank is also considered as a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
Financial Management Risks
Due to the use of spreadsheet, the system is subject to weaknesses inherent to this type of
records, namely: (i) slowness in recording of transactions, which may result in delays should the
volume of transactions increase with the development of the Project; (ii) vulnerability of the
information obtained, as the formulas data and summaries obtained can easily be altered without
such changes being immediately detected; and (iii) risk of losing some data due to viruses. To
mitigate those risks, there will be a daily backup of the spreadsheet files in a server as well as
hard copy (weekly signed by the Administrator and the Financial Officer) and a monthly backup
in a CD.
Staffin2
The Deputy Minister of Planning will be the Project Coordinator. The Administrator and
64



Financial Officer have been identified and will be recruited for the PIU. Both are experienced
with relevant academic background and professional experience and are familiar with Bank
procedures, having already worked in Bank financed projects. These two identified persons
worked closely with the Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) during the pre-appraisal
and appraisal missions to design the PIJ structure, assess its staffing needs, finalize the terrns of
reference of the project staff and that of the auditor and to agree on the format and content of the
FMRs.
ReDortini!
At least two sets of financial reports will be prepared by the PIU: the FMRs and the annual
Project's financial statements.
The quarterly FMRs content and format of which were agreed upon at appraisal will be prepared
and submitted to the Bank 45 days after the closing of the quarter following the date of
effectiveness. The FMRs will be based on the Annex A, Sample I developed in the Bank's
Guidelines on Financial Monitoring Reports, agreed to with the Administrator and the
Accountant, with some adjustments. For example, besides the two financial tables (Sources and
Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by Project Activity), the PIU will prepare a third table pertaining to
Uses of Funds by Category of Expenditure. It was also agreed that the FMRs will include
financial, physical progress and procurement information to provide information that is useful to
the borrower while also providing the Bank with sufficient information to establish whether: (i)
funds disbursed to the project are being used for the purpose intended; (ii) project
implementation is on track; and (iii) budgeted costs will not be exceeded. At the beginning,
disbursements will be made on the basis on the two traditional methods: direct payments and use
of statements of expenditure. Later on, the project will decide if it wants to change from SOEs to
FMRs-based disbursements. For FMRs-based disbursements, the project will have to fulfil
additional reporting requirements and the Bank to undertake a financial management assessment.
The annual financial statements will include but not limited to: (i) the Statement of Source and
Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the
start of the project; (ii) the schedule of statements of expenditures (SOEs); (iii) the Special
Account Statement/Reconciliation; (iv) the Project Account Statement/Reconciliation and any
other financial report the Accountant deems necessary and relevant.
2. Audit Arrangements
The annual financial statements of the project defined above will be audited for each fiscal year
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with intemational auditing
standards. Audit reports of such scope and detail agreed by IDA would be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of the audited period. The auditor will provide separate opinion
on each:
The project financial statements (Statement of Source and Application of Funds,
explanatory notes, etc.);
65



*     The Statement of Expenditures (SOEs);
*     The Special Account (SA);
*     The Project Account (PA).
The auditor will also provide a management letter on the internal control procedures outlining
any recommendations for improving the control system, the accounting and financial procedures
as a result of the financial statements audit. The auditor will also review the FMRs.
Detailed terms of reference for the selection of the project's auditor were prepared, discussed and
agreed on during appraisal. The selection of an auditor acceptable to the Bank is a condition of
effectiveness.
Proiect Financial Manaeement Capacity Strenethening Action Plan
To ensure that the above mentioned financial management system requirements will be met in
due time to declare project effectiveness, an action plan is proposed hereafter with tasks to be
performed as well as target completion date.
Action                             Tasks                  Target
completion date
1. Recruitment of the Administrator and Preparation of TORs and  5/30/02
the Financial Officer              signature of contract
2. Preparation of the Manual of    Adaptation and         5/31/03
Procedures                         expansion of FINSEC's
Manual to the context of
EMTA
3. Set-up of the financial management  Design and tests   5/31/03
systems (spreadsheet)
4. Selection of an external auditor for  Preparation of a Request  5/31/03
annual accounts in the first year audit  For Proposals (letter of
invitation, TORs,
short-list, draft contract),
no-objection, submission
of proposals, technical
evaluation, no-objection,
negotiation and signature
of contract
66



3. Disbursement Arrangements
Flow of Funds
As per the Financial Management Assessment, by effectiveness, the project will not be ready for
report-based disbursements. Therefore, disbursements will be made using transaction-based
mechanisms.The expected Project Completion Date is June 30, 2007 and the closing date is
expected to be December 31, 2007.
It is expected that resources needed towards the financing of project activities will flow from the
Credit Account, Special and Project Account. The proceeds of the Credit will flow in two
different ways: (i) direct payments, special commitments and reimbursements, from the Credit
Account and (ii) through the Special Account maintained in US$ in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA.
A project account, in local currency and exclusively for financing eligible expenditures required
under the project, will be opened in a commercial bank, for the Government of Angola's (GoA)
share of expenditures. This account will be replenished on a quarterly basis, and the GoA will
deposit into such account the amounts estimated to be required for the ensuing three-month
period.
For local expenditures, payable fr9m the proceeds of the Credit a local account (transitory
account) maintained in Kwanza (KA may be opened by the PIU. The PIU will periodically
transfer funds from the US$ Special Account into this local currency account, only in the
amounts necessary to satisfy payments of monthly expenditures. Monthly reconciliation of these
two accounts will be prepared by the Financial Officer and signed by the project Administrator,
and any monthly balance on the transitory account will necessarily be immaterial. The Financial
Officer will also be responsible for the preparation of the withdrawal applications. As to the
Project Account, it-will receive counterpart funds in compliance with the terms of the DCA.
Given that the available PPF will not disburse any funds, agreement has been reached to cancel
the advance and make retroactive financing available for Operating Costs, procured in a
satisfactory fashion and paid after June 1, 2002 up to a maximum equivalent to SDRs 200,000. It
is recommend that, once the credit is declared effective, these expenditures be immediately
claimed on a reimbursement basis.
Table C shows the allocations of credit proceeds.
67



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
Civil Works                              0.84                85% local expenditures
Goods                                    1.05          100% of foreign expenditures, 85% of
local expenditures
Consultant Services and Audits           12.42                      85%
Training                                 1.37                       100%
Operating Costs                          0.38               85% of local expenditures
Unallocated                              0.54
Total Project Costs                      16.60
Total                                    16.60
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts
with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review (see Procurement section
above). Thus all applications to withdraw proceeds from the loan account will be fully
documented, except for (a) expenditures for contracts with an estimated value of less than US$
100,000 each for works (b) expenditures for contracts with an estimated value of less than US$
100,000 each for goods, (c) expenditures for contracts with an estimated value of than US$
100,000 each for consultants' services provided by firms and US$ 50,000 for individual
consultants, and (d) training, and incremental operating costs under terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account for EMTA would be established and operated by the
Project Implementation Unit in US$ at a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The authorized Special Account allocation is US$ 1,800,000 to be capped at US$ 900,000 until
the aggregate disbursement amount is SDR 4,000,000.
68



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ANGOLA. Economic Management Technical Assistance
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                          18
First Bank mission (Identification)            02/01/2001                   02/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     05/04/2002                  05/04/2002
Negotiations                                   08/20/2002                   01/30/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2003                   06/30/2003
Prepared by:
Jorge Araujo
Preparation assistance:
Helena Maria Grandao Ramos
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Jorge Araujo                      Sr Economist - TTL
Helena Grandlo Ramos              Economist (consultant)
John Ngwafon                      Economist - Statistics
Olivier Lambert                   Sr. Financial Sector Development Specialist
Charles Schlumberger              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist
Robert Keppler                    Sr. Adviser
Charles McPherson                 Sr. Adviser
Slaheddine Ben-Halima             Sr. Procurement Specialist
Christine De Mariz                Consultant (Procurement Reform Subcomponent)
Subash Dhingra                    Procurement (consultant)
Isabella Micali-Drossos           Sr. Counsel
Jose C. Janeiro                   Sr. Finance Officer (Disbursement)
Iraj Talai                        Lead Financial Management Specialist
Magaye Gaye                       Financial Management (consultant)
Joao do Carmo Oliveira            Sr. Economist (Quality Assurance Team)
Antoine Simonpietri               Sr. Statistician (Quality Assurance Team)
69



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
ANGOLA Economic Management Technical Assistance
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Procurement Plan.
Draft Implementation Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement and Financial Management Capacity Assessments.
Pre-Appraisal and Appraidsal Mission Aide-Memoires.
C. Other
Public Finance Modernization Program.
Five-Year Plan for Statistics.
Central Bank's Payment System Strategy.
Draft Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (as of October 2002).
Including electronic files
70



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
1 8-Feb-2003
Difflrence between exected
and cal
Odginal Amount in USS Millions                            disbusements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P056393       2000 SECOND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT (FAS II)            0.00     33.00                          0.00      3.46     -19.90     -321
Total:       0.00      33.00                          0.00       3.46    -19.90     -321
71



ANGOLA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998                AEF Flecol                     0.61     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.61    0.00     0.00    O.OC
Total Portfolio:         0.61     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.61     0.00    0.00    0.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
72



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ANGOLA: Economic Management Technical Assistance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Angola     Africa   Income     Development dlamond
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                     13.5       6?4     2,511                Lif expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas methoc, USS)                   500       470      430
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     67        317     1,069
Average annual growth, 1995.01
Population (%)                                       2.9       2.5       1.9
Labor force (X)                                      3.0       2.6       2.3     GNI                            Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199.01)                             capita                      enmrllment
Poverty (X of population below national povetly line)
Urban population (% of totlpopulaton)                 35        32       31
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       47        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bihs)               128        91       76
Child malnutrition (96 of childien under 5)           41                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)   38        55        76
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15.)                             37        37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  91       78        96                 Angola
Male I                                              99        85       103                 Low-incone group
Female                                              83        72       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000     2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            ..    10.2        8.9      9.5
Gross domestic investment/GOP                       15.3      35.4      34.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   35.6      92.3      74.5                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          19.5      63.1      46.3
Gross nabonal savingstGDP                           10.3      47.1      33.1
Current account balancetGDP                          -5.4      10.0     -2.0     Domes
Interest payments/GD1P                               0.8       3.1       2.3      tvics                     Investment
Total debtGDP                                       87.5      114,5     97.6     savng                       Is
Total debt service/exports                           9.1       14.3     14.3
Present value of debt/GOP                                     108.9
Present value of debt/exports                                114.7
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991401    2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.6     3.1      3.0        3.2     11.7                  Angola
GDP per capita                      0.7    -043      -2.8      0.1       9.3                   Lowencorne group
Exports of goods and services       2.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of investment and GDP (%6
(96 of GDP)                                                                     r
Agriculture                                         28.8        5.8      8.0
Industry                                            40.0      72.8      66              __20_               _
Manufacturing                                       7.5       3.0       3.8
Services                                            31.2       21.4     25.3      o             -        as 4       o 
Private consumption                                 26.2                         20
General,govemment consumption                       54.3 3-
Imports of goods and services                       31.5      64.6      62 2                    GDI          GDP
198141   199141       2000     2001      Growth of exports and Importb ()
(average annual growth)
Agricuiture                                  0.3     2.5        9.3     18.0    so
Industry                                    4.2      5.8        3.5      4.1    20
Manufacturing                            -10.5      1.9       8.9       9.8           _
Services                                     1.9    -1.5       -0.2      44      10
Private consumption                         -5.6                                              9          s.9  oo    0
General'govemment consumption                7.2                          n.     o
Gross domestic investment                   -4.5                                        -     Exports  _     mports
Imports of goods and services               -4.7
Note: 2001 data are preilnmary esuArnates.
The diaffonds show wur key Indicators In the country (in bold) conpared vith Its income-group average. If data are nissing, te diarmond will be inconoite.
73



Angola
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
19p1     18S1      2000     2001     Indflion (%)
Domesticxt pricetso.o
(% chag)                                                                        5   T0
Consumer prices                               ..    85,3     325.0    152.6    4,000
Implicit GOP deflator                         ..   120.8     406.0    127.7     woof
Govemnment financo
(% of GDP, ncuWdes cw,wl int) og*                                                                   _
Curent revenue                                ..    22.0      51.7     41.1              go   97    so   og    oo   at
Current budget balance                        ..   -21.4       6.9     10.5                 GOP deRalo    e
Overall surplusddeficit 11                    ..   -26.3      -9.0     -7.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001    uExport and import lwels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   3,449     7,885    6.754     10,00
Crude oil                                   ..    3,161     6,951    5,820
Diamonds                                     ..    190       738      738      7,50
Manufactures                                 ..     56       132      112
Total imports (of)                            ..   1,347     3.147    3,316     5.000
Food                                        ..      57         ..s
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                ..    269         ..       ..        o."   *I                      .
95  99    97  91   99   00  01
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..     109       165      143
Import price Index (1995=100)                         96        78       77                * Expots       Imports
Termsoftrade(19950100)                        ..     114       212      185
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
(US$ -dilons)                              1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GODP I%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                     ..   3,620     8,181     7,057     1.
Imports of goods and services                 ..   3,196     5,728     5,888
Resource balance                              ..     424     2.453     1,169      a
Net income                                    ..  -1,004    .1,797    -1.609         _         _    
Net current transfers                         ..      28       229      247     IS                        U
Current account balance                       ..    .552       885     -193      30
Financing items (net)                         ..     552      -254     -315
Changes in net reserves                       ..       0      *831      508      _
Memo:
Reserveslncdudinggold(USSntilufa)             ..     321      1,198     732
Conversion rate (DEC, IcaLiSS)                .. 6.60E-8       10.0     22.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
19181    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandin and disbursed           ..   8.887     10,146    9,248
IBRD                                        .        0         0        0               0       9.1  :254  12
IDA                                          .       0       226      254                          -
Total debt service                            ..     336      1,205    1,043
IBRO                                                 0         0        0                                   E: 2.755
IDA                                         ..       0         0        0
ComposiWon of net resourcme flws
Offici grants                               ..      ,.         ..       ..               ;
Offldal credltors                           ..      76        4       196*
Private creditorns                          ..     $8        492     -626
Foreign dired nvestwmnt                     ..     as        878     1,347
Portfoio equity                             ..       0         0        0            F: 4.903
Word Bank program
Comnmitments                                ..      62        33        0      A - ISRO                  E *- ilabtr
Disbursements                               ..       0        24       12      8 - IOA  D - OIher mjltelarl  F - Pdvat
Pnndpal repayents                           ..       0         0        0      C - IMF                    G * Shot-tlerm
NetfRows                                    ..       0        24       12
Inbrest payments                            ..       0         0        0
Net transfrs                                ..       0        24       12
uevelopment ccornomfflE                                                                                          W14UiC
1/ Exdudes dcne In paynust aeas.
74






IMAGING
Report No.:         25459   ANG
Type:      PAD



