                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001900



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-37440, P072205)



                                             ON A

                                         CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION


                           (US$ 16.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                                             FOR A

           ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                     August 31, 2011



Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building
Angola Country Department
African Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 9, 2003)
                     Currency Unit = Kwanza (AOA)

                             US$ 1.00 = 85.8
                         January 1, - December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AA        Administration Agreement
BNA       Banco Nacional de Angola
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDC       Community Development Component
CPIA      Country Policy and Institutional Assessments
DNPE      National Directorate for the Mgt. of State Non-Financial Assets
DNI       Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
DNT       Public Debt Management
EMCBP     Economic Management Capacity Building Project
EMTA      Economic Management Technical Assistance
FINSEC    Financial Institutions Modernization Project
GoA        Government of Angola
INE       Institute Nacional de Estatistica
INF       National Inspectorate of Finance
ISR       Implementation Status Report
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
MINFIN    Ministry of Finance
MINPLAN   Ministry of Planning
MTFS      Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario
MTR       Mid Term Review
PA        Project Agreement
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIP       Public Investment Program
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMGFP     Public Finance Modernization Program
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Support Program
RGTS      Real Time Gross Settlement System
SIGIP     Public Investment Management and Programming System
SMP       Staff Monitored Program
SPA       Angola Payment System project
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
UNITA     Uniao para a Independencia Total de Angola


                     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                  Country Director: Laurence Clarke
                    Sector Manager: Anand Rajaram
               Project Team Leader: Roberto Panzardi
                ICR Primary Author: Chris Parel



                                     ii
                                    Republic of Angola
                   Economic Management Technical Assistance Project (EMTA)


                                                    Table of Contents


Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 16
Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 27
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 38
Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................... 43
Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .............. 45
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 46
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 47
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 50
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 53
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 55
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 56
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 57
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 61
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 62
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 63




                                                                    iii
                               ANGOLA
               ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                           BASIC DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                        AO-Econ Mgmt TA
Country:               Angola                  Project Name:
                                                                        (FY03)
Project ID:            P072205                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-37440
ICR Date:              08/31/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                        ANGOLA
Original Total
                         XDR 12.30M            Disbursed Amount:        XDR 9.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 9.37M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Planning
 Banco Nacional de Angola
 Ministry of Finance
 Instituto Nacional de Estatistica
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                           Revised / Actual
Process           Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/19/2001          Effectiveness:    12/04/2003           12/04/2003
Appraisal:      05/07/2002          Restructuring(s):                      05/28/2007
Approval:       03/27/2003          Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:          12/31/2007           02/28/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                  Ratings              Borrower            Ratings
                      Moderately                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                      Unsatisfactory                           Unsatisfactory

                                              iv
                          Moderately             Implementing         Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:     Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank              Moderately             Overall Borrower     Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory         Performance:         Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                               QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                      Rating
Performance                                      (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                              Quality at Entry
Project at any time             Yes                                           None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                                Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                          10                  10
Central government administration                                70                  70
Payments, settlements, and remittance systems                    15                  15
Sub-national government administration                            5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                   29                  29
 Macroeconomic management                                        14                  14
 Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                       14                  14
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                 29                  29
procurement
 Tax policy and administration                                   14                  14

E. Bank Staff
Positions                   At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:           Laurence C. Clarke              Darius Mans
Sector Manager:             Anand Rajaram                   Philippe H. Le Houerou
Project Team Leader:        Roberto O. Panzardi             Antonio Jorge Freitas de Araujo
ICR Team Leader:            Roberto O. Panzardi
ICR Primary Author:         Chris Parel


                                                 v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The key objective of the project is to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate sound
analysis and to implement sound policies in areas which are critical to the management of public
resources, including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system; the formulation and monitoring of a sound public investment program; and the
establishment of a more transparent and efficient public finance framework.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
EMTA supports GoA efforts to improve efficiency and transparency of public resource
management, by improving the institutional framework and building capacity in relevant public
institutions to articulate and implement public investment and financial policies and processes.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

The results framework could not be retrieved automatically from the system because it was not
initially entered in the system. However, the information is presented in the main text of the ICR.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

Same as above.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
1      12/22/2003     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
2      06/03/2004     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.90
3      11/24/2004     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          1.44
4      06/22/2005     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          3.27
5      01/14/2006     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          5.32
6      05/30/2006     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          5.53
                                              Moderately
7      06/30/2006     Satisfactory                                                  5.73
                                              Unsatisfactory
                                              Moderately
8      01/27/2007     Satisfactory                                                  8.13
                                              Unsatisfactory
9      06/26/2007     Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                8.60
10     12/21/2007     Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                9.66
11     06/30/2008     Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               10.05
12     10/24/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               10.90
13     06/26/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               11.78
14     12/31/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               13.00


                                                vi
15   06/30/2010      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 13.94
16   05/01/2011      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory 14.55

H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board      Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved                  Restructuring
Date(s)                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                       Two year extension of closing
                                                      date from December 31, 2007
                                                      to December 31, 2009 (Level 1)
                                                      for a change of the PDO,
                                                      reallocation of resources,
                                                      changes in the description of
                                                      some sub-components and
                                                      revision of Results Framework
                                                      including PDO indicators. The
                                                      Results Framework was revised
                                                      with the introduction of new
                                                      PDO indicators and
                                                      Intermediate Objectives
                                                      indicators with appropriate
                                                      baselines. Disbursement at the
                                                      time was about 50% of the total
                                                      Credit value. It should also be
                                                      noted that the indicators of the
05/28/2007    N          S      MU      8.53
                                                      ISRs done prior to the 2007
                                                      Restructuring were largely left
                                                      blank because there were no
                                                      baseline data and well defined
                                                      indicators did not exist. As
                                                      such, progress on individual
                                                      indicators was not regularly
                                                      reported in the ISR. These
                                                      problems were raised several
                                                      times in the ISRs and was only
                                                      resolved with the restructuring.
                                                      The new indicators generally
                                                      maintained the link with the
                                                      PDO, components and their
                                                      objectives although they were
                                                      different from the original
                                                      indicators. PDO indicators
                                                      were dropped relating to the oil

                                           vii
                         ISR Ratings at Amount
              Board      Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
              Approved                  Restructuring
Date(s)                                               Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO     IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                      sector financial model being
                                                      used as a tool for fiscal policy
                                                      and a Central Bank training
                                                      program. The new results
                                                      framework included more
                                                      measureable and better
                                                      indicators. The reallocation of
                                                      the Credit proceeds among
                                                      components brought EMTA
                                                      into closer alignment with
                                                      evolving GoA priorities.




                                         viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


                       Overview - Country and Sector Background

The Angola War of Independence (1961-1974) ended in Portugal handing over power to the
three leading independence coalitions, MPLA, UNITA and FNLA. The three subsequently
disputed power unleashing a brutal civil war that lasted until 2002 when UNITA gave up
armed hostilities against the MPLA government and converted to a political party. It is
estimated that 1.5 million lives were lost in the quarter century of civil hostilities and 4
million people were displaced—roughly one third of the population. By international
standards the damage and loss of life was huge. And the collateral damage done to
infrastructure, governance and the health and education of the populace was commensurate.
The country had engaged in warfare and little else for 25 years. Angola is still struggling to
overcome this legacy.

Despite hostilities some significant progress was made with Bank assistance. The Economic
Management Technical Assistance Project (EMTA) was preceded by a $23.0 million multi-
sector Economic Management Capacity Building Project (1991-1998) that disbursed well but
generated ―Unsatisfactory‖ rating. A second $20.0 million credit, Financial Institutions
Modernization Projects (FINSEC), took ten years to complete (1992-2002) but generated a
―Satisfactory‖ rating. EMTA was prepared in 2002 at the time of cessation of hostilities and
was approved by the Board approved in March, 2003. It was the critical public sector
intervention --the vehicle for dialogue and reform of the essential governance institutions and
processes. And it was hugely challenging for post-conflict Angola.

 Today, 2011, Angola continues to struggle. Out of 27 FY11 ―Fragile States‖ --defined as
 those with a Country Policy and Institutional Assessments (CPIA) rating of 3.2 or less--
1.
 Angola ranks 10th from the bottom. Using 2009 data, Angola‘s HDI ranking was 143 out of
2.
 182
3. countries. Life expectancy was 47 years; lifetime risk of maternal death was 1 in 12.
 and
4. the under-five mortality rate 220 per 1,000 live births. Some 53% of children under the
 age
5. of five are stunted, underweight or wasted.
6.
 The bottom line is that any operation in Angola spanning a similar period would be
7.
 considered high risk. This is especially true for governance TALs which are intrinsically
8.
 difficult, although it was accomplished with the support of this project. Hence, it is not
9.
 surprising     that EMTA closes with a Marginally Unsatisfactory rating and most loan
 evaluation criteria are rated MU or MS. Nevertheless, the Bank recognizes that much was
 accomplished under the auspices of EMTA despite difficult circumstances.



1.     The end of Angola‘s long-running civil war signaled by the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government and the military branch of the Uniao para a
Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA) in Luena on April 4, 2002 that opened a new window

                                               1
of opportunity for sustained socio-economic development and improved public resource
management in the country. The World Bank was well placed within the donor community to
provide the Government with the technical and financial support required to pursue much-needed
policy and institutional reforms. The Bank's response to this new course of events was laid out in
its Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which had the twin objectives of helping promote stability
and supporting the implementation of a pro-poor, post-conflict public expenditure program. The
TSS was based upon three pillars: (i) enhancing the transparency, efficiency, and credibility of public
resource management; (ii) expanding service delivery to war-affected vulnerable groups; and (iii)
preparing the ground for broad-based pro-poor economic growth. The Economic Management
Technical Assistance Project (EMTA) is one of the four credits presented in the TSS lending
program and addresses core issues of the first and third TSS pillars.1

2.     At the time of appraisal, Angola was slowly beginning to recover from the devastating
legacy of over 40 years of armed conflict2 including a war-torn society, severely damaged social,
economic and transport infrastructure and widespread mistrust in public institutions. 3 The
country‘s key institutions were fragile and lacked capacity and legitimacy. In addition,
preliminary results from a household budget survey conducted in 2000-2001 indicated that more
than two-thirds of the population lived below the poverty line, while 23.7% lived in extreme
poverty.4
Public Sector Issues

3.      As a post conflict SSA country, Angola faced numerous difficult challenges. But
notwithstanding the dire political economy some surprisingly good work was done to advance
public sector objectives. Both problems and advances are summarized below.

       Petroleum revenue dependency. The Angola economy and by extension its attitude towards
        public sector reform are doubtless linked to the price it receives for its crude and consequent
        petroleum revenues. At the beginning of the project prices were around $8/bbl. Today they
        hover around $100/bbl. The Government‘s early commitment to the project and how this was


1
 PAD, pg 3. The four credits are (1) the Angola Demobilization and Reintegration Project, which aims to help some 120,000 ex combatants
make a successful transition to civilian life; (2) an HIV/AIDS project to be prepared under the Multisectoral HIV/AIDS program; (3) the Social
Action Fund (FAS 3), a community driven development initiative; and (4) the Economic Management Technical Assistance project (EMTA).

2
    The independence war of 1960 to 1975 was followed by civil war from 1975 to 2002.

3
  Some 750,000 Angolans (7% of the population) died from conflict related causes including famine or disease, over 5 million people were
internally displaced and 440,000 became refugees. Among the most vulnerable social groups were the rural population, female heads of
households, children, persons with disability and UNITA ex-combatants.

    4
      According to Angola‗s Development Strategy, 62 percent of the households live below the poverty line of US$ 1.70 per day (94
    percent in rural areas and 57 percent in urban areas), and 15 percent are in a situation of extreme poverty (less than US$0.75 per day). Life expectancy is 42
    years. About 70 percent of the population is illiterate. One in four children dies before his/her fifth birthday, making Angola‗s child mortality rate
    the second worst in the world. Cholera is endemic and malaria affects one-third of the population. Only 38 percent of Angolans have access to safe drinking
    water (compared with about 55 percent in Sub Saharan Africa) and 44 percent have access to adequate sanitation services. GDP per capita has grown
    rapidly, reaching US$1,980 in 2006, but inequality remained very high, with the Gini coefficient estimated to be 0.62.




                                                                                  2
    affected by bankruptcy, IMF interventions and more recently abundant oil revenues provides a
    useful prism with which to view and evaluate EMTA implementation progress.
.
   Angola’s policy and institutional reforms record is poor. The Government's efforts to
    transform Angola from a centrally-planned economy to a market economy have been erratic,
    with periods of progress succeeded by stagnation, drift, and reversals. The country also has a
    long history of high inflation and suffered hyperinflation during the mid-90s. In July, 1996 at
    the time of the introduction of the ―Nova Vida Plan,‖ the 12-month inflation index reached
    10,000%. Throughout the last decade, Angola introduced a number of economic reform plans
    which, due to the lack of an adequate treatment of the fiscal framework, failed after
    temporarily containing inflation. From the period up to mid-1996, a pattern may be observed in
    that successive inflationary peaks, temporarily brought down by the adoption of a new plan,
    would be followed by an even higher peak after some months.

   In Angola the coexistence of natural resource abundance, unacceptable levels of poverty and
    widespread corruption is endemic. This is a disability common to other resource-rich
    developing countries in the region and worldwide. The 2002 round of Transparency
    International's Corruption Perceptions Index rated Angola as amongst the five most corrupt
    countries of 102 surveyed based upon perceptions of business people, risk analysts, and the
    general public. Mostly due to transparency-related reasons, the Bank's own CPIA rating for
    Angola is currently 1.8, on a scale from 1 to 6 with 1 being the lowest performance rating. In
    addition, preliminary results from a household budget survey conducted in 2000-2001 indicate that
    more than two-thirds of the population lives below the poverty line, while 23.7% can be
    considered as living in extreme poverty.

   Angola's current cycle of reforms started in earnest in 1999, despite the resumption of full-scale
    war in late 1998. The reform program introduced in 1999 is impressive for the breadth of its
    coverage. In May, 1999 the currency was allowed to float freely. In December, 1999 interest rates
    were liberalized and significant tax and tariff reforms were carried out. And in April, 2000 the
    Government agreed with the IMF to implement a new Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) which,
    after being extended in December 2000, ran through June 2001. However, haphazard
    implementation of policy and institutional reforms marred the success of the Government's efforts.
    In particular, important quantitative benchmarks such as the inflation rate were not met and a
    number of key structural measures were not completed. In reviewing this SMP, the Fund
    concluded in July, 2001 that a formal program could only be agreed with the Government
    following strong prior actions aimed, inter alia, at increasing fiscal transparency and eliminating
    Angola's large quasi- fiscal imbalances.

   Considerable progress — albeit not sufficient to lead to a formal Fund-supported program -
    was made in a number of areas, both under the SMP and after its expiration. These included:

           o   elimination of most customs exemptions not contemplated in international accords;
           o   launching of the 2001-2005 Privatization Program;
           o   liquidation of the insolvent CAP bank;
           o   launching of a diagnostic study of the oil sector;
           o   preparation of the State Bank BCI for privatization;

                                                  3
           o completion of a full financial audit of BNA's accounts;
           o placement of Customs administration under Crown Agents;
           o establishment of the Tribunal of Accounts;
           o initiation of a review of the public procurement system;
           o signing of an operational protocol regulating the relations between the Ministry of
             Finance and the Central Bank; and
           o launching of the official website of the Ministry of Finance, containing relevant
             macroeconomic and fiscal information.

   The draft of the Government’s Interim PRSP (I-PRSP) proposed actions which can be
    summarized along five broad themes. These include (i) undertaking economic and
    institutional reform (particularly in public finance and administration) to promote
    macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth; (ii) expanding the human capital base, by
    strengthening and restructuring professional training as well as the delivery of health and
    education services; (iii) rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure, concentrating on
    water supply, housing, electricity, transportation and communication; (iv) promoting pro-
    poor growth through rural development, artisanal fishing, and small and micro enterprises,
    with a focus on private sector development; and (v) strengthening public sector capacity and
    institutions, including at the provincial and local levels.

   The implementation of EMTA, was to be closely associated with the execution of the first
    theme of the I-PRSP. EMTA would support a number of ongoing and planned reform
    initiatives coordinated by MINPLAN, INE, MINFIN and BNA.

Rational for Bank Assistance:

4.     EMTA underpinned the first of the three pillars of the Bank‘s Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS) for Angola and contributes to the others. The three pillars of TSS included (i)
enhancing the transparency, efficiency, and credibility of public resource management; (ii)
expanding service delivery to war-affected vulnerable groups; and (iii) preparing the ground for
broad-based pro-poor economic growth.

5.      The end of the long-running civil war in Angola in 2002 opened a new window of
opportunity for sustained socio-economic development and improved public resource
management in the country. The World Bank was well placed within the donor community to
provide the Government the technical and financial support required to pursue much-needed
policy and institutional reforms. The Bank maintained lending for public sector management--the
Economic Management Capacity Building Project closed in 1998, FIMSEC in 2002--throughout
much of the last decade of hostilities. Hence, the Bank was prepared to come forward in 2002
with a comprehensive set of proposals. Its response was laid out in the the Transitional Support
Strategy which emphasized promoting stability and supporting the implementation of a pro-
poor, post-conflict public expenditure program.

6.    The Bank's proposed non-lending program was heavily focused on pillars (i) and (iii) of
the TSS where it had significant experience. EMTA was consequently developed as part of a
package of lending and non-lending services designed to help promote fiduciary oversight and

                                                4
prepare the ground for broad-based growth.5 Continuing collaboration with the IMF was also to
be a key aspect of the implementation of the TSS goals and EMTA objectives.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The main EMTA development objective was to facilitate the establishment of policy and
governance frameworks for sustained medium-term growth appropriate for the transition from civil
war to peace. To achieve this end, EMTA supported GoA efforts to improve efficiency and
transparency of public resource management by improving the institutional framework and building
capacity in relevant public institutions so they would be better able to articulate and implement
quality public investment and financial policies and processes. The original PDO was expressed as
follows.

            The key objective of the project is to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate
            sound analysis and to implement sound policies in areas which are critical to the management
            of public resources, including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and
            evaluation (M&E) system; the formulation and monitoring of a sound Public Investment
            Program (PIP); and the establishment of a more transparent and efficient public finance
            framework. (PAD, p. 2)

8.     EMTA was also following-up on the recently closed FINSEC project, intending to
complete work on the establishment of Angola's payment system at BNA and build greater
transparency and efficiency in the conduct of central bank operations. 6 As such, the project
focused on the key economic policy implementation agencies: Ministry of Planning (MINPLAN),
Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) and the Central Bank of Angola, (Banco Nacional de Angola-
BNA).

9.       Each of the four EMTA project components were also designed to support Government efforts
to contribute to a well designed, effective PRSP as indicated below.

           The Planning Component (M1NPLAN) was to support the continuation of earlier efforts at
            establishing methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring of sector and
            provincial plans and the PIP.

           The Statistics Component (INE/MINPLAN) was to support the implementation of a
            recently-prepared Five-Year Plan for Statistics.

           The Public Finance Component (MINFIN) was to support MINFIN's Public Finance
            Modernization Program.

5
  PAD page 3: which includes: (a) a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR); (b) a Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR); (c) a PPIAF-funded Country Framework Report on Infrastructure; (d) a Country Economic Memorandum;
(e) a study on Corporate Social Responsibility, focusing on the oil sector; and (f) the provision of customized training programs in partnership
with the World Bank Institute.

6
    PAD page 2: the project will focus on the key economic policy implementation agencies; MINPLAN, MINFIN, BNA.



                                                                        5
         The Central Bank (BNA) Operations Component was to support the improvement of
          BNA operations and the full implementation of Angola's payment settlement system.

10.       The original PDO indicators included the following:

         Completion of methodologies for elaboration of provincial and sectoral plans and
          programs*
         Establishment of routines and criteria for the monitoring of SIGIP (Public Investment
          Management Programming system)**
         Regular production of annual National Accounts Reports based on United Nations
          Systems of National Accounts (SNA93)***
         Regular Production of Annual Poverty and PRSP monitoring reports*
         Establishment of the necessary institutional framework at the Ministry of Finance for the
          regular utilization of the oil sector financial model as a tool for fiscal policy
          formulation.**
         Establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for public procurement reform*
         Full implementation of the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) System*
         Full implementation of the training program designed to support BNA‘s restructuring
          process. **
      * signifies that the PDO indicator was reformulated and maintained in the restructured Results Framework;
      ** indicates the indicator was dropped;
      ***indicates that the indicator was maintained unchanged in the restructured Framework.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

11.     The PDO objectives were revised in the 2007 Restructuring. The PDO description was
simplified and detailing of specific areas was dropped while maintaining an emphasis on
capacity building, efficiency and transparency. However, the Results Framework including PDO
indicators was significantly altered. The reformulated PDO was as follows.

          EMTA supports GoA’s efforts to improve efficiency and transparency of public resource
          management, by improving the institutional framework and building capacity in relevant
          public institutions to articulate and implement public investment and financial policies
          and processes.

12.    Significant changes were introduced into the original PDO indicators.                      Three of eight
were dropped. The following new indicators were added.

         New legal and regulatory framework for Anti-Money Laundering and related prevention
          measures articulated; new AML framework approved by Council of Ministers
         New institutional organization of BNA Internal Audit Department approved by BNA
          Board; minimum of 12 audits conducted by Internal Audit Department with follow-up
          actions
         New adapted framework for Finance Inspection Dept. approved by Council of Ministers
          and minimum of 10 audits with follow-up actions

                                                          6
13.       Two PDO indicators were maintained almost unchanged.

         Regular production of annual National Accounts Reports based on United Nations
          Systems of National Accounts (SNA93)***
         Full implementation of the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) System*

14.     The changes made to the original indicators were also a significant improvement as
indicated below. Concrete targets were added to what was often an ambiguous indicator. These
changes included the following PDO Indicators:

                   Original PDO Indicators                        Revised PDO Indicators
          Completion      of    methodologies      for 2009-2013 GoA program prepared: number of
          elaboration of provincial and sectoral plans sectoral and provincial plans prepared with new
          and programs                                 methodology. (Methodologies to monitor
                                                         and prepare programs‖ was added along
                                                         with numeric targets for provinces and
                                                         sectors)
          Regular Production of Annual Poverty and ECP/MDGs data produced and published
          PRSP monitoring reports                   annually.    (This was transformed to
                                                    ―development goals data produced and
                                                    published‖ including a final report on the
                                                    first household survey, a preliminary report
                                                    on the second household survey and a final
                                                    report on second household survey)
          Establishment of the legal and regulatory Establishment‖ was detailed to mean
          framework for public procurement reform   ―presented to the National Assembly‖ and
                                                    to this was added the requirement that 3
                                                    large public works contracts be procured
                                                    following the new law

15.     These changes were justified as better aligning the Government‘s priorities and programs
with Credit indicators. They also depart from the original indicators by providing unambiguous,
measurable indicators constituting a significant improvement. Finally, disbursement slightly
below 50% and significant implementation progress coupled with the importance of maintaining
the key vehicle for supporting public sector reform, capacity building and transparency were
seen as justification for restructuring the operation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.    EMTA was not targeted at any predetermined segment of the population or particular
social group. Rather, like so many TA projects, it addressed issues of good governance and
stewardship of public resources. Hence the beneficiaries comprised the entire populace ranging
from the Government of Angola to the private sector and civil society –everyone benefitting
from growth, good management, improved allocation of public resources and improved
transparency and information.



                                                   7
17.       The main expected benefits of the project enumerated in the PAD included the following:

         Strengthened mechanisms for the preparation, implementation, and monitoring of the
          Public Investment Program
         A strengthened National Statistical System
         Improved methodologies for data collection, evaluation, and dissemination
         Increased ability of MINFIN to exercise its internal control functions
         Increased coverage and accuracy of the General State Accounts (CGE)
         Improved public debt management, control and recording
         Increased reliability of oil and non-oil revenue projections
         Strengthened ability of DNI to collect non-oil taxes
         Clearer determination of responsibilities of local and provincial authorities over
          expenditure allocation and tax collection matters, and
         Adoption of adequate risk control measures and settlement mechanisms and processes for
          Angola's payments system, compatible with payments systems operating in SADC
          countries.

1.5 Original Components

18.     The project consisted of four components: (1) Planning (assistance to MINPLAN), (2)
Statistics (support to INE), (3) Public Finance (support to MINFIN), and (4) Central Bank
Operations (support to BNA). The four project components were designed to support
Government reform efforts and strengthen macroeconomic and fiscal policies. 1                  The
components made use of five specific types of assistance: (a) consultancy for technical assistance
and studies; (b) dissemination of information through publications and workshops; (c)
equipment; (d) local training; and (e) training on-the-job.

19.     It is worth noting that Annex 2: Detailed Project Description provides matrices for each
component detailing specific activities to be procured and their value. This is both highly
informative and user friendly --a good practice. It also demonstrates that the project design was
well aligned with project objectives.

Component 1 – PLANNING (Assistance to MINPLAN)

20.    The main goal of this component was to strengthen the process of public investment
formulation, execution and monitoring following up on work already underway at MINPLAN.
This component intended to provide assistance in the preparation of methodologies for
harmonization of sector and provincial strategies, in monitoring the implementation of the Public
Investment Management and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese acronym) and in
monitoring and auditing the execution of the Public Investment Program (PIP). Specifically, the
MINPLAN intended to provide assistance through the following subcomponents.

     Preparation of Methodologies for Harmonization of Sector/Provincial Strategies - was to
      assist with the development of methodologies to harmonize sector and provincial strategies
      with the overall Government's medium-term planning process, and to provide PIP
      methodologies training for staff at sector ministries and provincial governments.

                                                 8
     Monitoring of Implementation of SIGIP - was to support the implementation of the Public
      Investment Management and Programming System (SIGIP, the Portuguese acronym),
      developed by MINPLAN with technical assistance from other sources. It was also intended
      to assist the SIGIP monitoring process by adopting clearly identified and easily monitorable
      performance criteria and providing training to staff in charge of the process.

     Monitoring and Auditing of the Execution of the Public Investment Program - was to focus
      on the financial and operational execution of the Public Investment Program. Financial
      monitoring was based on the quarterly budget execution reports prepared by MINFIN.
      Training of the staff in charge of assessing the execution of the PIP was also envisaged as
      part of the assistance.

     Other areas of support to SIGIP and PIP – addressed activities that were deemed particularly
      relevant to the key project objective of strengthening the coordination of short and medium-
      term planning and financial instruments and between MINPLAN and MINFIN. In particular,
      it was intended to link (a) the PIP and the Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario, and (b) the SIGIP
      and the SIGFE.

Component 2 – STATISTICS (Support to INE)

21.      Timely and credible economic statistics were rightly deemed to be essential to the
National Accounts and for economic management. This component was designed to finance
activities to strengthen Angola's National Statistical System. The objective was to endow the
Institute Nacional de Estatistica (INE) with the capacity to help jump start the economy while
contributing to longer term capacity strengthening of the institutional, technical and financial
framework.

22.    The main sub-component goals were to: (a) strengthen the INE human resource base
through the provision of training, technical assistance, and other capacity building activities; and
(b) improve collection, analysis and dissemination of data by providing technical assistance in
the generation of macroeconomic, poverty and sector statistics, plus updating the sampling frame
and cartographic base for selected provinces.

23.       Support to INE was to be achieved through four sub-components described below.

         National Accounts and Trade Statistics - aimed to: (i) assist in setting up modern systems
          to generate national accounts based on the international framework SNA93, System of
          National Accounts 1993; and (ii) improve the comprehensiveness and quality of the
          information in external trade statistics, in particular the coverage and quality of statistics on
          imports.

         Sector Statistics - was intended to assist in developing the capacity to generate key sector
          statistics. Five areas were to be covered: (1) education and health; (2) employment and
          wages; (3) judicial statistics; (4) industrial statistics; and (5) central and local government
          financial statistics.

                                                     9
         Integrated Surveys Program - supported the updating of the sampling frame and
          cartographic base for selected provinces in Angola. The updated base was to be used to create
          a sampling program in support of a survey for assessing family makeup and adjunct family
          members, the creation of a future "General Census of the Population" and to increase
          INE technology transfer and to provide state of the art skills. It also supported a large
          survey program including a series of Production Surveys, a Living Conditions Survey, an
          Income and Expenditure Survey, an Industry Harmonization Survey and an Annual
          Harmonized Enterprise Survey.

         Poverty and PRSP Monitoring, Analysis and Studies - was to finance priority studies in
          the following areas: statistical notes, short-term economic indicators; demographic and
          social indicators; statistical reviews; and priority living conditions and poverty studies.

Component 3 – PUBLIC FINANCE – (Support to MINFIN)

24.     This component was to support MINFIN's Public Finance Modernization Program.
World Bank assistance through EMTA would focus on areas complementary to the ongoing
assistance contracted out by MINFIN to strengthen the SIGFE.

25.       The Public Finance component comprised of the following subcomponents:

         Internal Control (INF) - would help the National Inspectorate of Finance to become an
          effective internal control agency by supporting its legal and administrative reform
          process and strengthening its capacity to implement its work program. INF initiated work
          in the preparation of draft regulations for itself –constituting the first major effort in
          conducting a legal and institutional reform of MINFIN's internal control agency since its
          creation in 1958. EMTA supported this fledgling reform process.

         State Non-Financial Assets Management (DNPE) - the main objective of this
          subcomponent was to help the National Directorate for the Management of State Non-
          Financial Assets (DNPE) ensure that quality information on the non-financial assets of
          the State is generated in order to increase coverage and accuracy of the General State
          Accounts (Conta Geral do Estado, CGE).

         Public Debt Management (DNT) - was to support the process through which the main
          responsibility for public debt management would be transferred from BNA to MINFIN. It
          was also to follow up on the FINSEC project by supporting the setting up of the interface
          of DMFAS — the UNCTAD-designed debt-management software — with MINFIN and
          BNA.

         Fiscal Revenues (DNI) - would help increase the reliability of revenue projections
          through the implementation of a Financial Model that was under preparation by KPMG
          as part of an ongoing Oil Sector Diagnostic Study commissioned by MINFIN. It also
          intended to strengthen aspects of tax legislation and administration. This would be done
          by focusing on two key policy objectives: (i) helping to increase reliability of oil and

                                                   10
       non-oil revenue projections, thereby strengthening the Government's capacity to produce
       the revenue side of an eventual Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario; and (ii) helping to reduce
       dependency on oil taxes by strengthening the Government's capacity to collect non-oil
       tax revenues through cost effective interventions geared towards improving tax
       legislation and administration.

      Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations (DNI) - was to finance the assessment of current
       conditions and analysis of policy options regarding fiscal decentralization and other
       aspects of intergovernmental fiscal relations.

      Medium-Term Fiscal Scenario - was to focus on an assessment of the conditions and
       steps required for the implementation of a MTFS. It was to support analytical work to
       assess: (i) Angola's level of preparedness to move in the next few years to a medium-term
       approach to expenditure planning and revenue projection; and (ii) the practical actions
       required to design and implement a medium-term fiscal scenario consistent with the
       PRSP and the Medium-Term Plan.

      Procurement Reform - was intended to support the implementation of the most urgent
       measures identified in the CPAR action plan. It would mainly finance technical
       assistance, consultancy services and training workshops/study tours.

      Training (INFORSEF) - was to help design and implement a training program for
       MINFIN, in conjunction with its various National Directorates and the National
       Inspectorate of Finance. It is expected to cover the costs of trainers, preferably foreign, as
       well as the costs of training activities to be conducted in the provinces. This component
       would also support the hiring of a Long-Term Adviser to help the Minister of Finance
       administer the implementation of the PMGFP and of the fiscal reform process more
       generally.

Component 4 – CENTRAL BANK OPERATIONS (Support to BNA)

26.    This component aimed to help the Government increase the efficiency of Central Bank
Operations by following-up on the results of the FINSEC project and on the recommendations of
the 1999 BNA audit of accounts.

      Supporting BNA's Restructuring Process - comprised two activities. The first was
       improving BNA's internal controls --Ernst and Young completed the first audit ever of
       BNA‘s 1999 accounts. However, the accounts are still published relatively late. BNA's
       objective was to publish the 2000 accounts and to audit the 2001 accounts before the end
       of the 2002 calendar year. Further, BNA did not yet have an independent internal audit
       and control unit. This sub-component aimed at addressing these two issues: strengthening
       BNA's accounting capabilities and establishing an internal audit and control unit. The
       component would mainly build internal capacity by training BNA staff in accounting
       skills and by establishing and training staff for the internal audit and control unit. The
       second subcomponent has to do with restructuring overall BNA human resources. The
       project would support the development of an overall staffing plan. This would require a

                                                11
          needs analysis including staff skill profiles, the required skills mix and identification of
          missing and surplus staff skills. Once the staff mix was defined, a second study would
          evaluate retraining potential and identify staff which should not be retained. For the latter,
          a retrenchment assessment including determination of required severance payments
          would be carried out. This activity would support BNA's restructuring efforts and help it
          to rationalize its operations in light of fiscal constraints.

         Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills - was to support training initiatives for
          strengthening BNA staff banking skills in two areas: (i) BNA's Supervision Department
          (Direccao de Superviscio Bancciria —DSB), and,(ii) the Central Bank's Economic
          Research Department (Direccao de Estudos e Estatisticas - DEE). The training would
          include both, the traditional tasks and new challenges of the financial sector, e.g. payment
          systems, anti-money laundering, and reserves management. Participating BNA staff
          were to be chosen on a competitive process. The training was to be performed by
          specialized long term consultants.

         Payments System - was to provide assistance in the implementation of the Real Time
          Gross Settlement System--RGTS, by supporting the acquisition and installation of RTGS
          equipment and software and by helping ensure the physical safety of BNA processing
          centers. Amongst its potential benefits, this component was to facilitate the adoption of
          adequate risk control measures, settlement mechanisms and processes which would
          facilitate cross border links with other settlement systems, especially those of SADC
          countries. In addition the sub-component was to look at service provision and modern
          services and payment instruments adapted to important sectors of the Angolan economy
          including electronic funds transfer from the payer and provision of simple payment
          services to all regions, even those economically less attractive.

1.6 Revised Components

27.      The components were not revised. However, during the first 2007 Restructuring
activities were altered and resources reallocated as described below.

Other significant changes

28.       The project was restructured twice and extended twice as indicated below.




                                                   12
                    Table 1: EMTA Restructuring & Extension

   Date of
Restructuring                                   Type of Change
  Approval
    2007        Two year extension of closing date from December 31, 2007 to December
                31, 2009 (Level 1) for a change of the PDO, reallocation of resources,
                changes in the description of some sub-components and revision of Results
                Framework including PDO indicators. The Results Framework was revised
                with the introduction of new PDO indicators and Intermediate Objectives
                indicators with appropriate baselines. Disbursement at the time was about
                50% of the total Credit value. It should also be noted that the indicators of
                the ISRs done prior to the 2007 Restructuring were largely left blank because
                there were no baseline data and well defined indicators did not exist. As
                such, progress on individual indicators was not regularly reported in the ISR.
                These problems were raised several times in the ISRs and was only resolved
                with the restructuring. The new indicators generally maintained the link
                with the PDO, components and their objectives although they were different
                from the original indicators. PDO indicators were dropped relating to the
                oil sector financial model being used as a tool for fiscal policy and a Central
                Bank training program. The new results framework included more
                measureable and better indicators. The reallocation of the Credit proceeds
                among components brought EMTA into closer alignment with evolving GoA
                priorities.
    2009        One year extension of the closing date from December 31, 2009 to
                December 31, 2010 to complete, consolidate and fully implement EMTA.
                At the time of this extension, disbursements were around 70%. The primary
                focus of the extensions was to complete on-going project activities and
                consolidate the gains made by the project with emphasis on: (i) strengthening
                institutional capacity by upgrading the Information Technology (IT)
                platform and software used for data collection and analysis at the National
                Statistical Institute (INE); (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the
                National Inspectorate of Finance; and (iii) reinforcing banking supervision
                capacity within the Central Bank of Angola.
    2010        Two months extension of closing date to February 28, 2010 for full
                elaboration and final approval of the Restructuring process which included
                the cancellation of funds and reallocation to a well performing IDA project.
                The government requested a one year extension but the Bank agreed only to
                a 2-month extension to February 28, 2011. The restructuring also effected
                the cancellation of $2.65m (about 16% of the original $16.6 million project)
                of the undisbursed proceeds. The cancelled amount was reallocated to a
                better performing IDA project, Emergency Multi-Sector Recovery Project.
                About $1.4 million of the remaining funds were reallocated to ‗Operating
                Costs‘ to defray the costs of a Household Survey.




                                           13
                            Table 2: EMTA Restructuring & Funds Reallocation

               Component                              Original Allocation                      Restructured Allocation
                                                       $M         % of total                     $M         % of total
     Planning                                         0.48            3%                         0.61           3%
     Statistics                                       4.92           30%                         5.06          27%
     Public Finance                                   5.10           31%                         5.77          31%
     Central Bank                                     4.21           25%                         5.59          30%
     PIU                                              1.35            8%                         1.42           8%
     Unallocated                                      0.54            3%                         0.00           0%
       Total                                          16.60         100%                        18.45         100%
      *The original US$ credit amount was $16.6 million. The value increased owing to exchange rate appreciation. Increased
      component funding was derived from these gains and also from additional counterpart funding.

29.    The table below summarizes the final status of the Credit funds for the last Project
Restructuring.

                   Table 3: Cancellation and Reallocation of XDR Credit Proceeds.7


                                                                                     Allocation           Allocation
    Expenditure          Original            Revised                                   After                After            Reallocation
     Category           Allocation          Allocation         Cancellation         Cancellation         Reallocation            (%)
Works                    615,000                  -                    -                   -                    -                    -
Goods                    775,000            5,360,000          756,020.00            4,603,980            3,910,375               37%
Consultancy             9,225,000           5,490,000          713,703.00            4,776,297            4,082,691               39%
Training                1,020,000           1,300,000          238,103.00            1,061,897            1,031,290               10%
Operating Cost            75,000             150,000                   -               150,000            1,567,818               15%
Unallocated              590,000                  -                    -                   -                    -                    -
TOTAL                  12,300,000          12,300,000         1,707,826.00           10,592,174           10,592,174             100%

30.   The reallocation across various categories between the original and revised allocation
was undertaken for the following reasons:

          Works – The amount was cancelled because priority was given to other activities.
          Goods – The amount was increased due to provision of additional equipment as follows:
           (a) support to the National Statistics Institute in articulating a strategic IT plan helping
           INE to rationalize its essential IT system; (b) support to the BNA in the area of Anti



7
  Restructure Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Angola: Economic Management Technical Assistance to the Government of Angola,
February 28,2011 pg5.



                                                                  14
       Money Laundering and related prevention measures (AML) hence supporting BNA in its
       efforts to continuously improve the quality of Angola‘s financial system by ensuring that
       it has the means to fight money laundering; and (c) support to BNA to implement the
       final stage of the establishment of the Angolan accounting and auditing profession, an
       essential building block of the financial system infrastructure.
      Consultancy – The allocation was reduced and reallocated to goods.
      Operating Cost – The amount increased to support the operating costs (transport, fuel,
       small payments to enumerators) related to the Household Survey. Furthermore, such
       costs are relatively more expensive in Angola.
      Unallocated – The amount was allocated to the appropriate categories.

31.     By closing, the project disbursed about 85% of the original XDR 12.3 million and 99% of
the Restructured credit after the cancellation of XDR 1.7 million that occurred prior to credit
closing. The final reallocation enabled the financing of expenditures incurred by the Household
survey (per diem, fees, transportation, gasoline, etc.). A summary of the credit status at closing
is presented below.

                           Description                         XDR
                Original credit amount                      12,300,000
                Restructured credit amount                  10,592,174
                Total Disbursed                             10,501,151
                Disbursed/Original amount                      85%
                Disbursed/Restructured amount                  99%

Evaluation—Restructuring and Extensions

32.      The 2007 EMTA restructuring and extensions were necessary and justified on the basis
of the country situation, the relatively steady progress within a post conflict environment and the
critical need for implementing important reforms. EMTA was the main vehicle for governance
reform and institutional strengthening pillar in the Bank‘s portfolio and it also provided a venue
for continued dialogue to sensitize the government to the need for the agreed reforms. While it
took eight (8) years to implement the project, this is hardly surprising if it is compared with
projects such as FINSEC that took 10 years to implement.

33.    Additionally, the first 2007 restructuring was justified to revise the Results Framework –
something that should have been done at the time of Effectiveness-and realigned resources with
country priorities. While disbursement stood at about 50%, sufficient progress had been made
under difficult circumstances to justify the restructuring and the loan provided a critical
governance platform.

34.     The second restructuring of 2009 to consolidate, complete and meet the PDOs was also
justified as project disbursement had increased to around 70% and the operation continued a
pillar of Bank dialogue and Government reform.

35.    The third restructuring including a 2-month extension was a creative and costless means
of bringing the Credit to a timely closure while reallocating unused funds to another operation.

                                                15
The client had requested a one year extension but implementation progress had slowed, key PIU
positions had not been left vacant and the operation had already been extended twice.
Furthermore, discussions were underway regarding possible future engagement by the Bank.
Hence, the restructuring and loan closure was justified.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Assessment of Project Design

36.    EMTA‘s design drew upon the experience of two previous public sector management
operations and work done by the GoA during the war period. Nevertheless, there were four
EMTA design problems that weighed heavily: (i) objectives were too complex and overly-
ambitious —especially for a 5 year time frame, (ii) procurement requirements were too
demanding, (iii) the Results Framework was inadequate, and (iv) there was a lack of attention to
‗lessons learned‘ from other operations.

37.    Because, this was the only Bank instrument to address a broad spectrum of governance
problems and would be critical to Bank:Angola dialogue, the design doubtless erred on the side
of too many components and activities. The project design should have been simplified and
more done on institutional strengthening although, in retrospect, it seems to have served the
Government of Angola well as it transitioned to learning how to govern. Nevertheless, the
design flaws should have been addressed during preparation.

38.   The central focus of EMTA was to assist the GoA in generating the right inputs and
mechanisms with which to make informed decisions on matters pertaining to public finance and
macroeconomic management. Each of the four EMTA components was designed to support
government reform efforts that were expected to have positive impact on the design and
implementation of sound macroeconomic and fiscal policies:

   (i)     the Planning Component (MINPLAN) would support the continuation of previous
           efforts at establishing methodologies for the preparation, execution and monitoring of
           the PIP;

   (ii)    the Statistics Component (INE/MINPLAN) would support the implementation of the
           recently-prepared Five-Year Plan for Statistics;

   (iii)   the Public Finance Component (MINFIN) would support MINFIN's Public Finance
           Modernization Program (PMGFP); and

   (iv)    the Central Bank Component (BNA) will support activities aimed at strengthening
           BNA's operational efficiency, including the full implementation of Angola's payment
           system.




                                                16
39.     According to the PAD, progress made by the GOA over the years prior to EMTA was
surprisingly good, at least on paper, and supportive of an EMTA-type operation. The Planning
Ministry had implemented a System of Public Investment Management and Programming
(SIGIP). The Statistical Institute had developed with outside help a 5-year development program.
In Public Finance the country was guided by a Public Finance Modernization Program. Thanks
in large part to the Bank‘s FINSEC credit, the Central Bank had also made significant progress
on a Payments Settlement Project and developed auditable accounts. IMF was deeply involved
in issues of fiscal management. Customs reform, privatization, oil sector diagnostics, financial
audits, establishment of a Tribunal of Accounts, review of public procurement system,
preparation of an interim PRSP –progress leading up to EMTA was significant and provided a
reasonable basis for developing a feasible project design.

40.     EMTA built upon and continued work done by two earlier important related projects
financed by the Bank: the Economic Management Capacity Building Project (EMCB/PREGE)8
and the Financial Institution Modernization Project (FINSEC) 9 . Some EMTA components
(especially statistics) and sub-components are continuations of what was done in the predecessor
projects.

41.     Both EMCB and FINSEC seem to have been prejudiced by the GoA‘s lack of
commitment to economic reforms—perhaps not surprising in the midst of a war. FINSEC's PDO
rating was only upgraded to satisfactory at a later stage of its implementation. EMCB‘s PDO
rating finished unsatisfactory.

42.   Relevant lessons (italicized below) derived from these earlier operations (from ICRs)
were known to the EMTA team and are reflected in the risk and mitigation section but nothing
was done to operationalize them and the problems were repeated.

      (i) Government's ownership and reform commitment were vital to success. More could
          have been done—certainly by the Bank—to foster greater government commitment and
          understanding, especially early in EMTA‘s life. More intensive coordination between
          government agencies would also have been desirable

      (ii) An initial period should have been devoted to train the local staff responsible for
           project management. There is no record of a any concerted effort at the beginning of
           the project to train staff and early and continuing procurement problems indicate that
           more could have been done. Given that the country was emerging from a period in
           which fighting had taken precedence over governance and the cohort of experienced
           civil servants was minimal, an early emphasis on training could have paid high
           dividends.


8
  EMCB = Economic Management Capacity Building Project (Credit 2274-ANG). The credit was closed in December 3 I, 1998. PREGE is the
Portuguese-language acronym, by which the project is better known in Angola.

9
  FINSEC = Financial Institutions Modernization Project (Credit 2421-ANG). The credit was closed in December 31, 1988. PREGE is the
Portuguese-language acronym, by which the project is better known in Angola



                                                                     17
       (iii) The Bank should have committed more supervision resources to such a project. There
             is no indication that additional technical support was made available. On the other hand,
             following a period of unfortunate turnover of Bank TMs, two successive TMs were
             based in Angola and served for extended periods doubtless obviating the need for
             additional expenditures.

       (iv) The Bank and the Government should have worked to minimize turnover of staff
            responsible for project management. Bank turnover of TMs at the beginning of the
            project and EMTA PIU turnover the last year of the project were problems.

       (v) The Mid-Term Review should have been an opportunity to restructure or even close the
           project if a substantial number of its components were not performing satisfactorily10 --
           there was apparently no MTR. PDO indicators were not being met and disbursement
           was low hence a MTR might have helped. In the end the restructuring took the place of
           a MTR.

43.     According to the PAD, progress made by the GOA over the years prior to EMTA was
also impressive. The Planning Ministry had implemented a System of Public Investment
Management and Programming (SIGIP). The Statistical Institute had developed with outside
help a 5-year development program. In Public Finance the country was guided by a Public
Finance Modernization Program. Thanks in large part to the Bank‘s FINSEC project, the Central
Bank had made significant progress on a Payments Settlement Project and developed auditable
accounts. IMF was deeply involved in issues of fiscal management. Customs reform,
privatization, oil sector diagnostics, financial audits, establishment of a Tribunal of Accounts,
review of public procurement system, preparation of an interim PRSP –progress leading up to
EMTA was significant and provided a reasonable basis for developing a feasible project design.

44.    Nevertheless, the project was technically complex. PAD Annex 2 details a project with 4
components, 20 sub-components and 73 contracts identified in the PAD. The 2007
Restructuring document cited more than 110 activities to be procured. The table below
summarizes project design. It is noteworthy that many of the areas identified—taxes, surveys,
procurement, budgeting, national accounts, internal controls, settlement mechanisms—would be
considered quite demanding for a stable and more advance country. It is clear that EMTA
design—summarized in Table 4-- was clearly too ambitious for post-conflict Angola. The PAD
enumerates the following sub-components and programs funds and contracts to address each.




10
     PAD page 19



                                                  18
                                   Table 4: EMTA Design

  Component                             Sub-Component                              Cost ($M)
                                                                                   /Contracts
 Planning            Preparation of methodologies for harmonization of              $0.48/4
                      sector/provincial strategies                                  contracts
                     Monitoring of SIGIP implementation
                     Monitoring and auditing of the Public Investment
                      Program execution
                     Others—Support to SIGIP and PIP
 Statistics          National accounts and trade statistics                         $4.9/22
                     Sectoral statistics: central and local government,            contracts
                      industrial, wage and employment, informal sector,
                      education and health, judicial*
                     Poverty and PRSP monitoring, analysis and studies*
                     Integrated surveys program 7 surveys and cartographic
                      update*
 Public Finance      Internal control                                               $5.1/31
                     State non-financial assets management                         contracts
                     Public debt management
                     Fiscal revenues (comprehensive tax overhaul)
                     Intergovernmental fiscal relations
                     Medium-term fiscal scenario
                     Procurement reform
                     Training
                     Interface with SIGFE
 Central Bank         Supporting BNA‘s restructuring process (internal             $4.21/16
                      controls and HR)                                              contracts
                     Strengthening staff banking skills
                     Payments system

45.    It is also noteworthy that the overall risks associated with the implementation of EMTA
were rated as High in the PAD.

46.    Finally, project design was prejudiced by not having an adequate Results Framework
with baselines or well specified indicators. This incomplete Framework was inputted into the
ISRs and not corrected until the 2007 restructuring meaning that supervision was being done
without specifying progress against targets. This problem is further discussed in the M&E
Section 2.3.

47.     The four design flaws (complexity, procurement, Results Framework, lessons learned)
weighed heavily on implementation over the EMTA‘s 8 year life. Governance and institutional
strengthening are quite complicated and this project was evidently far too ambitious given post-
conflict Angola‘s capabilities and the 5 year time frame.


                                              19
Adequacy of Government’s Commitment

48.     Commitment to public sector management reforms at the time of preparation was high.
Despite the hostilities and devastated political economy, EMCB, FINSEC and the GoA‘s own
efforts produced some impressive results. Peace provided the Government with an opportunity
to press forward with some of the initiatives already begun (see Section 2.1-A above) and the
funding was much needed. Commitment at the conclusion of the project has also been high—
the Government wanted a one year extension and has been pressing the Bank for a follow-on
project. The Bank chose to close the project and reallocate funds while pursuing conversations
on new support vehicles (lending and fee-based services). Presumably, the 2007 and 2009
Restructurings mobilized EMTA support as well. However, about five years into the project at
the time of 2007 restructuring, disbursement was barely 50% and after 8 years it stood at 85% of
the original credit amount. The final 6-12 months of the project were also prejudiced by the
absence of a local project coordinator and procurement specialist. Hence, commitment was not
always sufficient to ensure smooth and timely EMTA implementation. It might also be
interesting to look further into whether commitment was prejudiced by Angola‘s emergence
from bankruptcy to a situation in which they found themselves with coffers full of petrol-dollars.

Assessment of Risks

49.    The risks that were identified in the PAD (page 25-26 of the PAD) are assessed as
follows:

Risks Stemming from the Government's Overall Attitude Towards Reforms

50.     EMTA faced the same risks that plagued its predecessors, namely, low capacity and
irregular Government ownership and commitment to the reforms. EMCB (closed 1998) suffered
from lack of commitment. FINSEC (closed 2002) benefited in its latter stages from the new
wave of reforms initiated in 1999 and from the Central Bank's dynamic leadership in
carrying out important initiatives such as the establishment of a modern Payments System.
Regarding Government‘s overall attitude towards reform risks were considered high and rightly so.

Specific Risks Associated with Individual Project Components

51.       Different components were evaluated as having different degrees of risks, as seen below.

         Planning: Adequacy of the SIGIP to the SIGFE--Angola's IFMIS (Substantial)

         Statistics: (a) INE's absorptive capacity and ability to implement a large program
          (Substantial); and (b) inadequate State budget allocations for INE to cover for its
          operational expenses (Moderate).

         Central Bank Operations: Delays in implementation of the Payment System Strategy
          (Low)




                                                  20
      Public Finance: Ongoing technical assistance, by third parties, to strengthen the SIGFE
       might not generate the desired results, affecting some of EMTA's sub-components (High)

Risks Stemming from Insufficient Coordination amongst Agencies within the Public
Administration

52.     Institutional coordination amongst different public agencies in Angola was known to be
very weak and problematic. Staff frequently had to provide informal bridges between
different governmental organizations to ensure the minimum coordination. The risk was greater
for a multi sector EMTA type project. The Project Coordinator and PIU was tasked with
mitigating coordination problems.

53.     In retrospect, this risk analysis is incomplete. Errors are of three types, (i) important
risks are missed; (ii) risks are underestimated; and (iii) mitigation measures are minimal and
proved ineffectual.

      Very little is said anywhere in the operation about Angola being a post-conflict country
       that had survived a devastating quarter century of hostilities where 30% of its
       population was lost to casualties or exodus to other countries. Not only were the
       outbreak of new hostilities and regional rivalries issues but the claims on a war-torn
       government with limited capacity and resources warranted far more attention. Local
       government capacity was minimal and infrastructure including communications had
       largely been destroyed creating huge problems for decentralized activities.

      EMCB and FINSEC took 8 and 10 years respectively with questionable results. The
       same government was almost certainly not going to be able to launch and implement a
       complex EMTA project in five years.

      The EMTA was indeed complicated - the design called for 4 components and a
       proliferation of sub-components plus over a hundred procurement processes that would
       have taxed a far stronger government. Moreover, governance operations are notoriously
       difficult to implement. The project was simply too complicated for Angola.

      ―Insufficient commitment and technical capacity‖ were genuine risks writ large in the
       experiences of EMCB and FINSEC. Nevertheless, the mitigating measure for this and
       most of the other risks is comprised essentially of ―continuous dialogue‖ and close
       supervision. The only concrete intervention was the creation of a Steering Committee
       that also did not work well.

54.      In the end, an EMTA project was necessary for Angola. But it was clearly too
complicated. It is surprising that this viewpoint did not prevail when the project was being
prepared. The risk analysis should have better reflected the very real problems that confronted
the project.

55.     Adequacy of participatory process: The project preparation was deemed highly
participatory by the team. GoA stakeholders from relevant areas and partnering institutions were

                                               21
consulted and involved in project analysis and planning. It is very likely given the initiatives
already underway and previous Bank loans that indeed this was the case.

Evaluation—Project Design

Positive Points

          The project was well prepared and under the circumstances, there was a lot of good
           information on the component areas to support the design effort. The Annex 3
           Project Description that includes matrices of activities to be undertaken is a ‗good
           case‘.

          The loan covered critical governance areas.

Negative Points

          The loan was too optimistic both in its reach and five year time frame. Governance
           and economic management are notoriously difficult projects to implement (Africa‘s
           PSG projects are the lowest rated in the Bank and PSG is rated as a sector the first or
           second worst in terms of loan performance—Source: 2009 PSG portfolio review).
           Predictably, a half year was lost to effectiveness and considerable delays were caused
           by procurement and ownership issues.

          The project was technically too complicated. The component requirements were
           complex and this was exacerbated by the proliferation of sub-components and
           procurement processes.

          Country and design risks were not fully appreciated and mitigation measures said
           very little. EMTA Government commitment and ownership fell short and there
           were no concrete measures to address these problems.

          In retrospect, the overly ambitious project design resulted in restructurings of the
           project. This was exacerbated by excessive procurement, poor risk identification and
           mitigation and an inadequate Results Framework.

2.2 Implementation

56.    Project implementation spanned the period from December 4, 2003 to February 28, 2011.
Supervision ratings over the course of the project are presented in the table below.




                                               22
                                                 Table 6: ISR Supervision Table

 ISR Date                                                             Ratings                                                   Disburse-
                 PDO       IP     FM      Project    CPF      Procure- M&E                       Components                       ment
                                          Mgmt                 ment               Plan-   Statis- Public         Central        (SDR M)
                                                                                  ning    tics    Finance        Bank
3/27/03          Board Date
12/04/03         Effectiveness Date
6/3/04                                       S     S
11/24/04           S      NR      NR              NR  NR NR     NR     NR     NR                                    NR              --
6/22/05            S       S       SS              S     MU     MU     MU       S                                    S             2.2
1/14/06            S       S       SS      S       S     MU     MU     MS     MS                                     S             3.6
5/30/06            S       S       SS      S       S     MU     MU     MS     MS                                     S             3.7
6/30/06            S      MU       SS     HS       S     MU     MU     MS     MS                                     S             3.9
1/27/07            S      MU       SS     HS       S     MU     MU     MS     MS                                     S             5.5
5/27/07                                     RESTRUCTURED/EXTENDED FOR TWO YEARS
6/26/07            S   MS    S      S     HS       S     MS     MS     MS     MS                                    S              5.8
12/21/07           S   MS    S      S     HS      MS     MS      S     MS     MS                                    S              6.5
6/30/08            S   MS    S      S     HS      MS     MS      S     MS     MS                                    S              6.7
10/24/08          MS   MS    S      S     HS      MS     MS      S     MS     MU                                    MS             7.3
6/26/09           MS   MS    S      S     MU       S     MS     MS      S     MU                                    S              7.9
12/09                                               EXTENDED FOR ONE YEAR
12/31/09          MS   MS    S      S     MU       S       S     S      S       S                                   MS             8.7
6/30/10           MS   MS    S      S      S       S       S     S      S       S                                   MS             9.3
12/11            EXTENDED FOR 2 MONTHS & SUBSEQUENTLY RESTRUCTURED & CLOSED
3/24/11*          MS   MS    S     MS      S     MU      MS      S     MS       S                                   MS             9.7
                  (1)  (2)  (3)    (4)    (5)     (6)     (7)   (8)    (9)    (10)                                  (11)          (12)
ICR               MU   MU    S     MS      S     MU      MU     MS     MU     MU                                    MS            10.5
Evaluation
*This final ISR was a progress report and not an evaluation of the entire loan

Notes on the ISR Supervision Table above

     (1) PDO Rating. The PDO should have been downgraded along with the IP since low disbursement put at risk
         meeting the PDO and the indicators—only one was met at the time of the 2007 restructuring. Furthermore,
         only the Central Bank component was rated ―S‖. The MS ratings in the ISRs have been downgraded by the
         ICR.
     (2) IP Rating. The IP rating was first downgraded at the time a Restructuring was being contemplated. It
         should have been downgraded sooner in light of low disbursements and ratings for M&E and the
         components.
     (3) FM Rating. There were few notes or indications of problems during the 8 year project life. Originally,
         financial accounts were kept on excel tables but subsequently systems were implemented. Audits were
         performed on a timely basis and were generally clean.

                                                        Table 6: FM Ratings

               Financial Management                                     Audits Overdue                   Audits Received
                                                                          (Months)
                                                                        1-3               >3         Qualified       Accountability
                                                                                                                        Issues
 Financial Statements Continuing Entity                                  --               --            --                 --
 Financial Statements PIU                                         5/30/06, 3/11    10/24/08              --                --
 Special Opinions                                                 5/30/06,                               --                --
                                                                  3/24/11

     (4) Project Management Rating. Project management was rated S for almost the entire project. It was rated
         MS for EMTA’s last 6-8 months because there was no Project Coordinator or procurement specialist.


                                                                       23
   (5) CPF Rating Only twice did the rating fall below HS or S, both in 2009 which corresponded to a period of
       very tight liquidity in Angola according to ISRs. Otherwise there is no mention of resources not being
       available to fund project activities. What was the reason for such a high HS rating? --there is no
       explanation in the ISRs.

   (6) Procurement Rating. There are continuing complaints about procurement delays however at no point did
       ISRs rate procurement below MS. Furthermore, leading up to the Restructuring when disbursements were
       below 50% procurement was not blamed for the mediocre performance. There is mention in one ISR of a
       possible INT mis-procurement case but the subsequent ISR indicates a Government decision was taken to
       remove the process from the Credit and fund it from own resources thereby resolving the problem.

   (7) M&E Rating. This has been discussed elsewhere. At project launch only a handful of not well specified
       PDO and IOI indicators were inputted into the ISRs, very different from the PAD that listed 11 and 28
       respectively (see M&E Section 2.3 below).

57.     ISR M&E ratings were MU up to the 2007 Restructuring. Given the absence of baselines,
blank progress to date boxes, and inadequate information to evaluate individual components
M&E should have been rated Unsatisfactory. This goes against Bank rules. In effect, Task
Managers were supervising the project without a Results Framework for the first five years of
the project. At the end of the project, the absence of a Coordinator also undercut M&E. In
addition, it has been very difficult to determine what was actually accomplished as reporting on
final outcomes was often ambiguous and required repeated requests for clarification.

58.    General Implementation Observations. The following observations are also relevant
regarding the ISR table above and EMTA implementation in general.

      Effectiveness took 8 months following Board approval.

      Supervision was done regularly at roughly 6 month intervals as required.

      The first restructuring approved on May 27, 2007 was approved despite a MU rating for
       IP and only XDR 5.5 million of a total loan of XDR12.2 million (45%) having been
       disbursed—despite mediocre performance, the restructuring was undertaken using the
       justifications explained earlier.

      In light of low disbursements through much of the project life through the restructuring
       PDO and IP ratings were inflated.

      The Steering Committee was also not functioning throughout the life of the project.

      Finally, at the time of the 2007 Restructuring only about 50% of the credit had been
       disbursed. Final disbursement against the original credit amount after 8 years is about
       85% of the original credit.




                                                    24
Evaluation—Implementation

         Overall, the first five years of the project were no better than MS with low disbursements,
          continuing Results Framework/supervision problems and turnover linked to questionable
          ownership and commitment. Procurement was a continuing problem and source of
          delays. Financial management seems not to have been a problem. Similar issues
          continued even after the restructuring.

         Disbursement lagged the first 5 years of the project and EMTA closed after 8 years and 2
          months with 85% of the original credit amount disbursed (about 99% of the restructured
          amount). The latter half performance is somewhat marred by the lack of a Coordinator
          and Procurement Specialist the last year of the project.

Challenges:

Mid Term Review (MTR):

59.    The ICR team could not find evidence demonstrating that the mid-term review was done.
Nevertheless, in 2007 the project was restructured

Quality at Entry: NA

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

60.    The 2007 Restructuring amended the Results Framework because the original framework
was not properly developed. PDO indicators were finally redefined and the final three years saw
improvement in ISR reporting. Even so, it was difficult to finalize this ICR because it was not
possible to verify whether several PDO indicators had been fully or partially complied due to
lack of evidence of precise information regarding the completion of indicators. Available
information was unclear and the remaining PIU team members were unavailable to provide
additional information. In three such cases PDO indicators were consequently rated ―partially
completed‖ and ―moderately unsatisfactory‖.

61.       Regarding M&E problems consider also the following.

         The original PAD Results Framework (Annex 1) had 11 PDO indicators and 28
          Intermediate Output Indicators that fairly faithfully covered the multiple component and
          sub-component programmed activities.

         The ISRs prior to the 2007 Restructuring had 4 PDO Indicators and 6 IOIs that evidently
          did not cover the range of intended activities (one PDO indicator/component) but also
          were, by and large, not well specified –too generic, subjective and composite. There
          were no baselines and no progress reporting prior to Restructuring.




                                                  25
      The ISRs following the 2007 Restructuring numbered 8 PDO and 11 IOI/IRI indicators.
       These were much better specified and covered more of what was intended in the original
       PAD although evidently fell short of the original 29 PAD indicators.

      Because a number of the indicators were composites and ISR and BTOR information was
       limited it was not possible to evaluate final PDO/IOI achievements without requesting a
       final accounting from GoA counterparts.

      The turnover of Bank TMs at the beginning of the project and the absence of a client
       Project Coordinator at the end of the project exacerbated the M&E problem.

      The MU rating considers these issues and the fact that the first 5 years of project M&E
       must be rated Unsatisfactory (the ISRs consistently rate it MU).

62.    There is one more fundamental problem affecting EMTA design, PDO, PDO indicators
and M&E. Achieving efficiency and transparency in resource management through capacity
building and institutional framework do not end with establishing formal institutional
frameworks or even creating agencies. The PDO portends that what is created should work as
intended. It is not clear that EMTA ever would have had time or resources to do the work
needed to assure these PDOs are met. Nor was this part of the design or M&E. PDO indicators
were measureable and achieving them was largely done. But this is not the same thing as
meeting the Project Development Objective. ―Efficiency‖, ―transparency‖ and ―capacity
building‖ are difficult to measure and much is doubtless still to be done.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

63.    The project is rated a ―C‖ and no safeguard polices were mobilized. Fiduciary is
captured above in the notes to the ISR Matrix in section 2.2. FM problems were apparently
minimal. While procurement was a continuing source of concern there were no misprocurement
cases. Furthermore, procurement was managed centrally but each component and in some cases,
sub-component prepared procurement processes which further complicated project
implementation.

Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

64.     The GoA has asked for a follow-up project that would consolidate EMTA gains and
extend reforms. They have been communicating with the EMTA task manager who has reported
their interest first in the December ‘09 ISR. A new operation would clearly seem to be a good
way to consolidate EMTA gains and meet GoA needs. The Bank is also contemplating other
modalities for a multi-donor approach with IDA funds and fee-for-service operation. And the
funds that were allocated to another, well performing project at the time of closing also
contribute to the Bank‘s post-completion activities.




                                             26
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

65.     There is no doubt regarding the relevance of project objectives in light of Angola‘s needs
and also their relevance in light of previous Bank operations (EMCB and FINSEC) and the
direction of reforms and institutional strengthening interventions undertaken by the Government
with their own resources. Essentially, improving economic management and optimizing the
allocation and management of resources requires investment in Planning and Finance, the
upgrading of statistics (INE) and improvement in fiduciary oversight (internal control,
procurement, settlements, budgeting and budget tracking systems, etc.) including debt
management and Central Bank operations. Hence, the choice of institutions and components
made sense.

66.     If the rating criteria took into account the enormous challenges of reforming a post-
conflict country like Angola it could be rated higher than Moderately Unsatisfactory. If the
rating were based entirely upon PDO relevance and whether the PDOs were well aligned with
components and activities the operation might be rated Moderately Satisfactory. However, the
design was/proved to be over-ambitious and the proliferation of components (4) sub-components
(20) and procurement processes (>100) was far too much for post-conflict Angola to carry out in
5 years. Even with a major restructuring the project took 8 years to implement and disbursed
only 85% of the original amount (99% of the restructured amount). The design also was less
than adequate regarding the PDOs and Results Framework specification and risk identification
and mitigation –both of these are discussed in detail in earlier sections. The over-ambitious work
program and design shortcomings also burdened implementation.

67.     Finally, the revised PDO indicators are necessary but insufficient to assure sustainable
progress without substantially more work. Six of ten PDO indicators [strategic and investment
plans, poverty/MDG reporting, procurement, internal audit (BNA) and external audit (INF)
reform, and money laundering] address extremely difficult areas and require much more than
paper reforms to assure success. Evidence of how complicated these areas can be explained by
the fact that most were addressed only in the last two years. It may be unfair to require follow-
up operations to consolidate gains (something surely needed and justified in Angola) or
indicators that judge the sustainability and efficacy of reforms but this is still what was needed
and their absence leaves a lingering question if, over 8 years, something more should have been
done.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives—Moderately Unsatisfactory

68.     As part of the 2007 restructuring, new PDO indicators were introduced. The overall
restructured PDO results after eight years, two restructurings and two extensions are as follows
supporting a MU rating.

  Total PDO Indicators         Moderately                Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
           10                       4                          2                     4


                                               27
69.     Revised PDO: EMTA supports GoA‘s efforts to improve efficiency and transparency of
public resources management, by improving the institutional framework and building capacity in
relevant public institutions to articulate and implement public investment and financial policies
and processes.11

     Table 7: PDO Achievements—Capacity Building, Public Investment Management and
                                  Transparency*

 PDO Indicator                      Status                                        Output and Outcome Linkage
 1. Produce new                     Rating: Partially Completed (MU).             Strategies and investment programs are
    strategies/ investment                                                        essential to establishing and
    programs—                       Sector programs were done utilizing           operationalizing priorities and providing
    MINPLAN 2009-13:                a new methodology; according to the           explicit budget benchmarks against which
    5 sectors and 5                 latest GoA report, provincial                 allocation and execution can be measured.
    provinces                       programs are still being developed.           Hence, meeting this benchmark contributes
                                                                                  importantly to capacity building, efficiency
                                                                                  and transparency.
 2.    Publication of               Rating: Completed (S)                         Both the methodology and the publication
       National Accounts                                                          of past and current accounts also contribute
       using SNA93                  National accounts for 2002-2010 and           importantly to transparency. By virtue of
       methodology:                 provisional accounts for 2011 will be         having implemented SNA93 we can also
       updating accounts            published in the first trimester of           say that capacity building and efficiency
       from 2002 to present         2012. Accounts through 2009 have              have been introduced and especially when
                                    been revised completely according to          taken in conjunction with #1 above.
                                    SNA93
 3.    Regular publication of       Rating: Partial (MU)                          Publication of IDR2 and periodic
       ECP/MDG data:                                                              publication of ECP/MDG data makes them
       Second Household             IDR2 was finalized published in               higher profile and more likely to be
       survey IDR2 finalized        2010 after. There is no indication of         incorporated into strategies and programs
       and published.               regular ECP/MDG data publication.             (PDO indicator #1 above). Unfortunately,
                                    INE has no current plan to publish            the ―summary‖ has been published but not
                                    annual/regular ECP/MDG data.                  the detailed data. There is also need to
                                                                                  build capacity that would allow for this to
                                                                                  take place.
 4.    Budgets and General          Rating: Completed (S)                         Virtual inclusion of non-financial assets in
       Accounts published                                                         budget and accounting data and national
       including non-               A module (SIGPE) which captures               accounts is an important efficiency and
       financial assets             all non-financial assets has been             financial management (capacity)
       starting in 2007.            integrated into the national FMIS             improvement in the General Accounts. The
                                    (SIGFE). This information is                  information is also available on a MoF
                                    available on the MoF website on a             website and through the Jornal contributing
                                    timely basis (data available through          to transparency.
                                    6/10) and in the Jornal de Angola.
                                    A law governing non- financial
                                    assets was approved (Lei da Gestao
                                    dos Activos Patrimoniais Nao-
                                    Financeiros) and two Presidential



11
   Note that a split evaluation of pre and post restructuring PDO is not undertaken in this section because at the time of
restructuring about the time of the original closing date only about 50% of the loan had been disbursed and relatively little
progress had been made on PDO indicators.


                                                                28
                              Decrees emitted governing norms
                              and procedures.
5.   Three large contracts    Rating: Partially Completed (MU).        The new law mandates procurement
     procured under new                                                procedures that will enhance
     procurement law          The new procurement law No. 2010         competitiveness and strengthen protocols
     regulations that were    of September 7, 2010 was approved        (efficiency) while publication of results
     to be submitted to and   (Lei da Gestao dos Activos               supports transparency. By requiring that 3
     approved by the          Ptrimoniais Nao-Financeiros do           large processes be procured under these
     National Assembly.       Estado) and is being implemented.        new procedures the credit wanted evidence
                              A Presidential Decree 298/10 of          confirming that the new law is being
                              December 3, 2010 was issued which        implemented. Unfortunately such evidence
                              created a Public Contracts               was not provided. The new law is
                              Committee. An oversight agency           necessary but not sufficient. Given the
                              structure was approved by the MoF        notorious difficulty of implementing and
                              and put in place. The GoA was            enforcing procurement reforms we are
                              unable to provide timely evidence for    unable to assess whether significant strides
                              the ICR that 3 large contracts had       have been made in building capacity or in
                              been procured.                           transparency.
6.   A new framework for      Rating: Completed (S).                   By strengthening INF capacity and
     the Finance Inspection                                            requiring audits with follow-up actions be
     Department (INF)         A new Constitutional law (Lei da         undertaken the operation is defending
     approved by the          Probidade Publica) and the new           appropriate resource allocation and
     Council of Ministers     budget law (Lei Quadro do                transparency since audit results are
     and (by 2009) ten        Orcamento Geral do Estado)               published and these must be follow-up
     audits will be done by   contribute to defining internal          actions. The indicator makes no mention of
     the strengthened INF     control. A Presidential Decree           the consequences of follow-up actions
     audit agency each with   approved the setting up of a reformed    which is unfortunate and something that
     follow-up actions.       Financial Inspectorate General office.   should be looked into. Without adequate
                              Audits with follow-up actions in         follow-up and reporting of outcomes neither
                              sufficient number are being              efficiency nor transparency can be
                              produced.                                confirmed.
7.   New public debt          Rating: Completed (MS)                   Public debt management can potentially
     management                                                        introduce significant efficiencies and
     institutional            A Presidential Decree was issued in      savings hence the establishment of such a
     framework approved       2010 addressing debt management.         unit is important to GoA financial
     by Council of            A Debt Management unit was               management. The presumption is that with
     Ministers                established in the MoF. It is            such a unit diagnostic reports will be
                              functioning (but apparently in need      published which would contribute also to
                              of TA and training). A new law           transparent debt management. Capacity has
                              regarding debt sustainability is         been added and presumably transparency.
                              expected in 2011.
8.   Central Bank runs        Rating: Completed (S)                    A functioning settlements system points to
     RTGS (settlements)                                                new capacity, efficiency and potential
     software without         RTGS in place and running almost         savings and systems intrinsically increase
     interruption for 2       flawlessly                               transparency as records are easy to recall
     years.                                                            and evaluate. This was one of the major
                                                                       accomplishments of this project.
9.   A new institutional      Rating: Partially Completed (MU)         Similar to #6 above, fiduciary oversight
     organization of BNA                                               brings potentially large outcome savings in
     Internal Audit           There were relatively fewer internal     terms of efficiency, savings, transparency
     Department is            audits with follow-up actions in the     and good governance. In this case, the GoA
     approved by the BNA      last two years: 6 in 2009 and 4 in       has moved forward by bringing in
     Board and produces 12    2010. However, this is due in large      consultants to further the reforms and help
     internal audit reports   part because there is an ongoing         build capacity. Subsequent work would be
     with follow-up actions   comprehensive reform lead by an          required to learn whether audits result in
     (by 12/2009).            international consultant firm that       follow-up actions with consequences.

                                                       29
                                   should measurably strengthen the
      Component: Central           Central Bank audit function. As such
      Bank                         full implementation of the
                                   recommendations has not yet been
                                   implemented.
 10. New legal and                  Rating: Completed (MS)                       New capacity consisting of the legal and
     regulatory framework                                                        regulatory framework and AML unit has
     for anti-Money                In May 2010 the National Assembly             been created. Interventions that reduce
     laundering and related        approved legislation creating an              corruption contribute to efficiency,
     prevention measures           agency to combat money laundering.            transparency, revenue increase and
     articulated and               Presidential Decree no. 35/11 of              improved governance.
     approved by Council           February 15, 2011 established the
     of Ministers.                 UIF agency which is staffed and
                                   functioning with an adequate legal
                                   and regulatory framework.


 *Note that where 2011 results are given for partially completed activities it has not been possible to obtain updates. Lacking
information indicators #1, #3, and #5 have been rated MU.

Efficiency

70.      PAD Annex 4, ―Summary of benefits and costs‖ rightly points out that ―the project‘s
institutional building characteristics do not allow for an accurate calculation of rates of return‖.
It provides no analysis or projections. Nevertheless, Table 7 above evaluates the PDO indicators
impact on capacity building, transparency and efficiency. In this section efficiency is evaluated
in terms of the potential order of magnitude of potential benefits generated against the cost of
interventions. The bottom line is that for about $10.0 million a great deal that was important was
done and the potential economic gains are significant. Much larger SWAps and DPLs
occasionally use indicators similar to EMTA‘s PDO indicators. Hence, we can speculate that if
EMTA had been a DPL the Bank would have purchased the Results Framework package for
$10.0 million. Drawing from the PDO Indicators we present the following observations which
give comfort that EMTA returns will very likely exceeded investment cost. The subsequent
tables 8-13 will also give comfort that the institutional changes introduced were important and
sustainable.

                                          Table 8: EMTA Estimated Returns

 PDO Indicator                          Achieved                          Observation/Returns
 1. Produce new strategies/             Rating: Partially                 A 0.1% one year only improvement in sector
    investment programs—                Completed (MU).                   allocations applied to the 2011 Federal budget of
    MINPLAN 2009-13: 5                                                    $4.2 billion is $4.2 million/year.
    sectors and 5 provinces
 2. Publication of National             Rating: Completed (S)             Planning and M&E cannot be done without
    Accounts using SNA93                National accounts for             credible National Accounts
    methodology: updating               2002-2010 and provisional
    accounts from 2002 to               accounts for 2011 will be
    present                             published in the first
                                        trimester of 2012.
                                        Accounts through 2009
                                        have been revised
                                        completely according to

                                                               30
                                   SNA93




3.   Regular publication of        Rating: Partially             Poverty data is fundamental to planning and
     ECP/MDG data: Second          Completed (MU)                management of large poverty mitigation
     Household survey IDR2                                       programs. The returns to more efficient
     finalized and published.       IDR2 was finalized           resource allocation are suggested by #1 above,
                                   published in 2010 after.      especially considering that education and health
                                   INE has no current plan to    budgets are consistently among the 2-3 largest
                                   publish annual/regular        across countries.
                                   ECP/MDG data.
4.   Budgets and General           Rating: Completed (S)         Registering and managing large Government
     Accounts published                                          non-financial assets is potentially an important
     including non-financial                                     source of returns.
     assets starting in 2007.
5.   Three large contracts         Rating: Partially             Procurement accounts often from 10-30% of a
     procured under new            Completed (MU).               national budget. A small one time 1%
     procurement law                                             efficiency gain for 10% of the 2011 budget of
     regulations that were to be                                 about $4.2 billion is $4.2 million /year
     submitted to and approved
     by the National Assembly.
6.   A new framework for the       Rating: Completed (S).        Audit is an essential Government function.
     Finance Inspection                                          Funds reconciliation, recovery, or elimination of
     Department (INF)                                            corrupt practices can potentially recover/save
     approved by the Council of                                  $ millions.
     Ministers and (by 2009)
     ten audits will be done by
     the strengthened INF audit
     agency each with follow-
     up actions.
7.   New public debt               Rating: Completed (MS)         Debt management may generate the highest
     management institutional                                    returns of any of the EMTA interventions.
     framework approved by                                       Considering that the GoA public debt in 2011 is
     Council of Ministers                                        around $18 billion, a 1% one year saving in debt
                                                                 management is the equivalent of $18 million or
                                                                 roughly the cost of the entire loan.
8.   Central Bank runs RTGS        Rating: Completed (S)         Timely settlements obviate the need to pay
     (settlements) software                                      accumulated interest and penalties and builds
     without interruption for 2                                  business confidence.
     years.
9.   A new institutional           Rating: Partially             See #6 above. The implementation and
     organization of BNA           Completed (MS)                extension of internal audits also has the potential
     Internal Audit Department                                   to improve government management of
     is approved by the BNA        There were relatively         expenditures and identify misused funds.
     Board and produces 12         fewer internal audits with
     internal audit reports with   follow-up actions in the
     follow-up actions (by         last two years: 6 in 2009
     12/2009).                     and 4 in 2010. However,
                                   this is due in large part
     Component: Central Bank       because there is an ongoing
                                   comprehensive reform lead
                                   by an international


                                                       31
                                  consultant firm that should
                                  measurably strengthen the
                                  Central Bank audit
                                  function. This, too has
                                  been factored into the
                                  rating.

 10. New legal and regulatory      Rating: Completed (MS)       Money laundering undercuts good fiscal
     framework for anti-Money                                   governance costing significant amounts in lost
     laundering and related                                     revenues and combating of corruption.
     prevention measures
     articulated and approved
     by Council of Ministers.

71.      We would further add that pp. 7-25 of the client prepared Relatorio Global do Projecto
(June, 2011) details procurement and related activities undertaken for each EMTA component.
It is clear that a great amount was done in support of the Project Development Objectives.

72.     Efficiency should also take into account funds spent on preparation and supervision over
a period of eight years corresponding to the project‘s life. Would the Bank, given the benefit of
hindsight, have done the EMTA project? The answer that emerges is that it should. EMTA
provided the the best governance reform platform for Bank-Government dialogue for eight years
and in the initial stages it was the only real venue for pushing reforms. The cost was low relative
to potential benefits as indicated above –even counting credit, supervision and preparation costs.
Angola has benefited from the operation and the Bank maintains good working relations today.
The one caveat to this is that the Bank must act to ensure the progress made is not lost due to
backsliding in the absence of Government or Bank continuing support.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating—Moderately Unsatisfactory

73.    The rating combines Relevance (MU), Achievement of PDOs (MU) and Efficiency (MS).
Hence, the Overall Outcome Rating clearly converges to Moderately Unsatisfactory.

                          Table 9: Project Outcomes and Risks to Outcomes

 PDO Indicator             Achieved                                 Risk to Development Outcome
 1. Produce new            Rating: Partially Completed (MU).         Substantial. The new sector plans are in
    strategies/                                                     place but apparently not the provincial
    investment             Sector programs were done utilizing a    plans. These are vital to good planning.
    programs—              new methodology; according to the        Having done plans the methodology and
    MINPLAN 2009-          latest GoA report, provincial programs   protocols are established. However, there is
    13: 5 sectors and 5    are being developed.                     no indication that the Government has taken
    provinces                                                       ownership of these plans and that they are
                                                                    being implemented through the budget. The
                                                                    delay in provincial plans is more worrisome
                                                                    as ownership issues could loom large. The
                                                                    translation of paper strategies and
                                                                    investment plans into a continual cycle of
                                                                    budgets, rational investment decisions and
                                                                    actual work programs is not easy and
                                                                    requires national and local ownership and


                                                       32
                                                                        capacity that may be beyond the current
                                                                        GoA‘s ability. Verification is beyond the
                                                                        ICR‘s scope but this is an area where more
                                                                        Bank work would be useful.
2.   Publication of         Rating: Completed (S)                        Negligible. The SNA93 methodology is
     National Accounts                                                  now in use and the accounts will be
     using SNA93            National accounts for 2002-2010 and         concluded using it.
     methodology:           provisional accounts for 2011 will be
     updating accounts      published in the first trimester of 2012.
     from 2002 to           Accounts through 2009 have been
     present                revised completely according to
                            SNA93
3.   Regular publication    Rating: Partial (MU)                        Substantial. The Household Survey (IDR2)
     of ECP/MDG data:                                                   findings have finally been finalized and this
     Second Household       IDR2 was finalized published in 2010        is irreversible. The presumption is that
     survey IDR2            after. There is no indication of regular    surveys will be repeated about every 5
     finalized and          ECP/MDG data publication.                   years. However, the indicator calls for
     published.             INE has no current plan to publish          regular publication of poverty data and
                            annual/regular ECP/MDG data.                MDG performance and nothing has been
                                                                        presented to indicate that this is being
                                                                        addressed. There are in most countries
                                                                        strong political vested interests mitigating
                                                                        against evaluation and full disclosure of
                                                                        such information.
4.   Budgets and            Rating: Completed (S)                       Negligible. The implementation of modules
     General Accounts                                                   for asset registry and the publication of
     published including    A module (SIGPE) which captures all         General Accounts is not reversible as it is
     non-financial assets   non-financial assets has been integrated    clearly in the public interest and is
     starting in 2007.      into the national FMIS (SIGFE). This        buttressed by functioning systems and laws.
                            information is available on the MoF
                            website on a timely basis (data
                            available through 6/10) and in the
                            Jornal de Angola.
                            A law governing non- financial assets
                            was approved (Lei da Gestao dos
                            Activos Patrimoniais Nao-Financeiros)
                            and two Presidential Decrees emitted
                            governing norms and procedures.
5.   Three large            Rating: Partially Completed (MU).            Moderate. The passage of the new law and
     contracts procured                                                 the creation of a new agency are major
     under new              The new law was passed (Lei da              advancements. At least three large
     procurement law        Gestao dos Activos Ptrimoniais Nao-         processes have probably been procured or
     regulations that       Financeiros do Estado) and is being         soon will be using the new regulations
     were to be             implemented. A Presidential Decree          which would be one indication that the new
     submitted to and       was emitted which created a Public          system is functioning. Some progress has
     approved by the        Contracts Committee. An oversight           apparently been made in establishing an e-
     National               agency structure was approved by the        procurement system. However, continuing
     Assembly.              MoF and put in place. The GoA was           adherence to the new procurement rules and
                            unable to provide timely evidence for       realization of potential benefits from greater
                            the ICR that 3 large contracts had been     competitiveness requires continuous
                            procured.                                   ownership and rigorous monitoring and
                                                                        enforcement as procurement is a major
                                                                        source of fraud and corruption Issues of
                                                                        implementation and sustainability go
                                                                        beyond the ICR scope. This is one more
                                                                        area where more Bank sponsored work

                                                          33
                                                                       would be especially helpful.
6.   A new framework       Rating: Completed (S).                       Moderate. The framework is approved and
     for the Finance                                                   audits are being produced. It is highly
     Inspection            A new Constitutional law (Lei da            unlikely that any of this would be reversed.
     Department (INF)      Probidade Publica) and the new budget       This is necessary but not sufficient. The
     approved by the       law (Lei Quadro do Orcamento Geral          next step is to verify the quality of audits
     Council of            do Estado) contribute to defining           and the efficacy of follow-up actions which
     Ministers and (by     internal control. A Presidential Decree     requires rigorous monitoring, evaluation
     2009) ten audits      approved the setting up of a reformed       and enforcement—another area where Bank
     will be done by the   Financial Inspectorate General office.      support would be useful.
     strengthened INF      Audits with follow-up actions in
     audit agency each     sufficient number are being produced.
     with follow-up
     actions.
7.   New public debt       Rating: Completed (MS)                      Moderate. The expected law, the decree
     management                                                        and establishment of the unit are
     institutional         A Presidential Decree was emitted in        irreversible. Whether the new framework
     framework             2010 addressing debt management. A          lives up to its potential will depend upon
     approved by           Debt Management unit was established        resourcing, training, and rigorous adoption
     Council of            in the MoF. It is functioning (but          of good practices. The final GoA report
     Ministers             apparently in need of TA and training).     indicates that the unit is in need of technical
                           A new law regarding debt sustainability     assistance and training. This is one more
                           is expected in 2011.                        area where Bank intervention would be
                                                                       useful.
8.   Central Bank runs     Rating: Completed (S)                        Negligible. Given that the system has been
     RTGS                                                              successfully run for several years and that it
     (settlements)         RTGS in place and running almost            performs an essential function it is unlikely
     software without      flawlessly                                  that it would not continue.
     interruption for 2
     years.
9.   A new institutional   Rating: Partially Completed (MU)            Moderate. The new institutional
     organization of                                                   arrangements have been approved and
     BNA Internal          There were relatively fewer internal        implemented and the audits are being
     Audit Department      audits with follow-up actions in the last   produced. As in the INF case above, the
     is approved by the    two years: 6 in 2009 and 4 in 2010.         next step is to verify the efficacy of follow-
     BNA Board and         However, this is due in large part          up actions. Ernst & Young has
     produces 12           because there is an ongoing                 subsequently been retained to work on a
     internal audit        comprehensive reform lead by an             comprehensive internal audit reform
     reports with          international consultant firm that          touching on organization, staffing and
     follow-up actions     should measurably strengthen the            protocols which goes well beyond what was
     (by 12/2009).         Central Bank audit function. This too       contemplated by the credit.
                           has been factored into the rating.
    Component:
    Central Bank
10. New legal and          Rating: Completed (MS)                      Moderate. This is necessary but not
    regulatory                                                         sufficient to combat money laundering.
    framework for anti-    In 5/10 the National Assembly               Evidently follow-up work is needed to
    Money laundering       approved legislation creating an agency     verify that the framework is producing
    and related            to combat money laundering.                 results.
    prevention             Presidential Decree no. 35/11 of
    measures               15/2/11 established the UIF agency
    articulated and        which is staffed and functioning with
    approved by            an adequate legal and regulatory
    Council of             framework.
    Ministers.


                                                        34
Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

74.     The only poverty impact would be linked to the reporting of poverty data—a DLI--as part
of the lending program. Benchmarking and periodic reporting of national accounts and
poverty/MDG data is vital for developing and implementing national poverty, health, education
and development programs. Otherwise, the loan focused on governance and institutional
strengthening primarily in Planning, Finance and INE. Hence, poverty, gender and social
development would have been impacted indirectly through increased revenues (see 3.3 Efficiency
above) and improved resource management and allocation.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

75.      EMTA is a traditional TAL concerned primarily with institutional change and
strengthening. The operation achieved substantial formal institutional change. In terms of laws,
decrees, setting up institutions, staffing and systems a great deal was done. However, in terms of
institutional strengthening the record is not as good in part because it took most of 8 years to
achieve the formal reforms. Furthermore, the result of institutional strengthening in areas
EMTA addressed that could not be resolved by systems implementation is at risk and requires
consolidation. These latter areas [strategic and investment plans, poverty/MDG reporting,
procurement, internal audit (BNA) and external audit (INF) reform, and money laundering], as
was pointed out earlier, address extremely difficult areas and require much more than paper
reforms to assure success. EMTA is rated ―Moderately Unsatisfactory‖ by balancing what was
formally achieved (including PDO indicators) versus the lack of clear evidence that the
institutional strengthening has systematically taken hold for instance in the areas cited above.
Of the ratings in Table 10 below, ―At Risk‖ and ―Permanent but Results at Risk‖, have also been
incorporated. Where formal reforms and institutions have been set up but without ownership
and rigorous monitoring and enforcement the desired results may not occur.

                              Table 10: EMTA Institutional Strengthening*
                  *Table 10 should be read with Table 9 for further detail on ‗formal‘ institutional changes.

 PDO Indicator                        Achieved                                  Institutional Change Evaluation
 1. Produce new strategies/          Rating: Partially Completed                At Risk. IF these sector and provincial
    investment programs—             (MU).                                     strategies and programs are institutionalized
    MINPLAN 2009-13: 5                                                         and carried out over 2009-13, including
    sectors and 5 provinces                                                    replicating to all sectors and provinces and
                                                                               updating periodically THEN there is a good
                                                                               chance that lasting institutional change will
                                                                               result with potentially important gains in RBM
                                                                               and judicious resource allocation. However,
                                                                               without continuing pressure to make this
                                                                               happen the result is in question. This is one
                                                                               reason that a follow-up operation is important.
                                                                               Otherwise, the Bank should look for other
                                                                               platforms, including partnering with other IFIs
                                                                               to ensure this promising initiative is not lost.
 2.   Publication of National        Rating: Completed (S)                     Permanent and Significant. The SNA93

                                                             35
     Accounts using SNA93                                              methodology is now in use and the accounts
     methodology: updating         National accounts for 2002-2010     will be concluded using it. This is permanent
     accounts from 2002 to         and provisional accounts for 2011   institutional change that should bring
     present                       will be published in the first      significant gains to GoA planning and
                                   trimester of 2012. Accounts         management.
                                   through 2009 have been revised
                                   completely according to SNA93
3.   Regular publication of        Rating: Partially Completed         At Risk. IDR2 took a long time to finalize and
     ECP/MDG data: Second          (MU)                                publish and the next IDR will be in about 5
     Household survey IDR2                                             years. Whether the GoA by itself will gather
     finalized and published.       IDR2 was finalized published in    and report poverty and MDG data regularly is
                                   2010 after. INE has no current      to be seen. A follow-up Bank/IFI operation
                                   plan to publish annual/regular      would help.
                                   ECP/MDG data.
4.   Budgets and General           Rating: Completed (S)               Permanent and Significant. Past exercises have
     Accounts published                                                been updated and future exercises including
     including non-financial                                           non-financial assets will be done making use of
     assets starting in 2007.                                          SIGPE and SIGFE and given regulations
                                                                       requiring publication.
5.   Three large contracts         Rating: Partially Completed          Permanent But Results At Risk. The passage
     procured under new            (MU).                               of the new law, the Presidential Decree and
     procurement law                                                   establishment of units/committees is
     regulations that were to be                                       irreversible and the 3 large processes have been
     submitted to and                                                  procured using the new regulations. However,
     approved by the National                                          continuing adherence to the new rules and
     Assembly.                                                         realization of benefits from competition will
                                                                       depend upon rigorous monitoring and
                                                                       enforcement and this remains to be seen. A
                                                                       follow-up Bank/IFI operation that consolidates
                                                                       these gains would be important.
6.   A new framework for the       Rating: Completed (S).               Permanent But Results at Risk. The Law and
     Finance Inspection                                                Decree have established a legal and
     Department (INF)                                                  organizational framework and the audits are
     approved by the Council                                           being produced. The issues are to retain INF
     of Ministers and (by                                              autonomy and the quality of its audits and also
     2009) ten audits will be                                          to verify that meaningful follow-up is actually
     done by the strengthened                                          occurring. For obvious reasons this could not
     INF audit agency each                                             be included in this operation but it would be a
     with follow-up actions.                                           welcome addition to a Bank/IFI follow-up
                                                                       operation.
7.   New public debt               Rating: Completed (MS)              Permanent but Results at Risk. The Law and
     management institutional                                          MOF unit is an important contribution to
     framework approved by                                             institutional strengthening. However, debt
     Council of Ministers                                              management is complicated and additional
                                                                       technical assistance and close monitoring and
                                                                       evaluation is required.
8.   Central Bank runs RTGS        Rating: Completed (S)                Permanent and Significant. The GoA now has
     (settlements) software                                            a fully functional settlements capability.
     without interruption for 2
     years.




                                                        36
 9.   A new institutional           Rating: Partially Completed (MU)       Permanent but at Risk. The new institutional
      organization of BNA                                                 arrangements have been approved and
      Internal Audit Department     There were relatively fewer           implemented and the audits are being
      is approved by the BNA        internal audits with follow-up        produced. Hence the issue now is
      Board and produces 12         actions in the last two years: 6 in   independence, quality of audits and meaningful
      internal audit reports with   2009 and 4 in 2010. However,          follow-up. An international consulting firm
      follow-up actions (by         this is due in large part because     has been retained to advance institutional
      12/2009).                     there is an ongoing                   strengthening. This could benefit from a
                                    comprehensive reform lead by an       follow-up operation as well.
      Component: Central Bank       international consultant firm that
                                    should measurably strengthen the
                                    Central Bank audit function. This,
                                    too has been factored into the
                                    rating.
 10. New legal and regulatory       Rating: Completed (MS)                Permanent but at Risk. Legislation and
     framework for anti-                                                  Presidential Decree have established a unit,
     Money laundering and                                                 regulations and protocols and this is
     related prevention                                                   irreversible. However, this is an area requiring
     measures articulated and                                             continued monitoring, evaluation and support
     approved by Council of                                               to be effective. This is monitored by the
     Ministers.                                                           Financial Action Task Force (www.fatf-
                                                                          gafi.org). Angola has been making substantial
                                                                          progress to combat money laundering and
                                                                          terrorist financing.

76.    In addition, a great deal of work was done to contribute to these outcomes that can also
be counted as important and ‗permanent‘ institutional strengthening. The GoA‘s final report,
Relatorio Global de Projeto, enumerates initiatives that will certainly contribute to agency/GoA
improved performance including, inter alia, the following:

         MINPLAN. Updating of performance and poverty indicators and targets.

         Central Bank. Software SPTR (settlements); consultant report regarding a new functional
          GAI model, manual of procedures (new unit set up and process design ongoing), needs
          assessments of hardware and software (new IT unit set up) and training; adoption of a
          performance scorecard; formation of an internal projects unit; upgraded payments
          management; complementary regulation of non-banking financial institutions and leasing
          and factoring entities; action plan for combating money laundering; creation of the
          Ordem dos Contabilistas e Revisores de Contas (Association of Accountants);

         INE-Statistics. Cartography—upgrade of SIG, acquisition of satellite images and
          consequent updating of sampling of IDR2 Household Survey; and

         Public Finance. Operationalization of the new Procurement law including regulations,
          development of a regulatory agency, procurement manuals; preparation of laws,
          regulations, manuals, classifications etc. pertaining to public patrimony, software use;
          strengthening of INF management and information resources including internal control
          software (CIAFE), IT plan, training, approval of new staffing plan.



                                                          37
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

77.      Perhaps the single most important, positive impact was that the GoA saw that important
governance reforms and institutional strengthening can be achieved through careful planning and
targeting of resources. This is reflected in the Restructurings and extensions and the fact that the
GoA has pressed hard for a follow-up operation to consolidate and extend gains. Given
continuing poverty, health, education and infrastructure problems—all of which demand
institutional strengthening and improved governance—EMTA‘s ‗demonstration effect‘ should
not be under-estimated.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

78.    There were no Beneficiary Surveys or Stakeholder Workshops.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

79.     The risk to PDO indicators—those reforms, systems, and organizations put in place—is
Moderate conforming to the Moderately Satisfactory rating for project outcomes. The table of
PDO Indicator achievements assesses the risk to development objectives in 3.4 Table 9 while 3.5
(b) Table 10 addresses institutional strengthening risks. It is clear that the passage of laws,
creation of agencies, addition of approved staffing, use of systems to produce results—these are
all advances that are very unlikely to be rolled back. However, the risk that the reforms will fall
short of achieving what they were intended to achieve is still ―Substantial‖.

80.    Repeating, the revised PDO is as follows.

       EMTA supports GoA’s efforts to improve efficiency and transparency of public resources
       management, by improving the institutional framework and building capacity in relevant public
       institutions to articulate and implement public investment and financial policies and processes.

81.     Four of ten PDO indicators improve the institutional framework in ways that ensure
continuation - eg. adoption of SNA93 for national accounts or the continued use of the
settlements software. However, the remaining 6 of 10 require ownership, resources, training and
rigorous monitoring and enforcement to generate transparency and especially efficiency. EMTA
did not really build capacity in these instances nor is there any way to ensure that the formal
reforms brought about by an impressive array of laws, decrees, agencies and systems will result
in the benefits intended. This is the real risk to the Development Outcome. It also provides an
opportunity for the Bank to follow-up with operations to consolidate EMTA gains.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.    Bank performance is summarized in the table below. Positive and negative aspects
converge to a MU rating.

                                                 38
                              Table 11: Borrower Performance Rating

    Parameter                         Positive                                          Negative
 Project             The project was well prepared,                Project was over ambitious, especially for a post-
 preparation         components were relevant & aligned with       conflict low capacity country; excess of
                     priority needs and country assistance         procurement processes challenged GoA capacity;
                     strategy                                      Results framework was only fixed at time of first
                                                                   restructuring
 Restructuring       The first restructuring was especially well   The project took 8 years; only one PDO indicator
                     argued and relevant including                 had been met at time of restructuring. In 2007 an
                     reallocation, extension and results           entirely new array of 10 indicators was
                     framework changes; a the 2nd and 3rd          introduced. By project end in 2010, six were
                     extensions and 2nd restructuring were         rated satisfactory and four marginally
                     also well done and justified. Performance     satisfactory.
                     against new PDOs was reasonable given
                     post conflict situation and weak capacity.
 Disbursement                                                      Final disbursement was $15.9 million or 99% of
                                                                   restructured amount.
 Project             Supervision missions took place regularly     Turnover of 3 TMs at commencement of project
 Supervision         about every 6 months. Restructurings          with little reporting/progress was unfortunate.
                     and extensions were well done, creative       There was no MTR. Project progress was not
                     and justified. Following the first 2 years    measured vs. Results Framework which was not
                     characterized by 3 TMs turning over in        filled in prior to Restructuring (see M&E below).
                     rapid succession, 2 long serving TMs          ISRs probably should have downgraded PDO/IP
                     were retained in Angola which was a           sooner in light of low disbursements. Two of the
                     boon to project implementation.               restructured PDO indicators were downgraded to
                     Restructurings and extension were well        IOIs in post 2007 ISRs. Identifying final PDO -
                     done and justified.                           not clarified at project‘s end - has been very
                                                                   difficult owing to client ambiguity and lack of
                                                                   institutional memory relating to turnover of key
                                                                   client staff.
 M&E                 Following restructuring and total             The PAD Results Framework was not well
                     overhaul of Results Framework                 specified and individual ISRs also had problems.
                     management performance improved               The Framework and subsequent ISRs left
                     significantly.                                baseline and progress largely blank through the
                                                                   2007 Restructuring. Two restructured PDO
                                                                   indicators were relegated to IOIs. PIU staff
                                                                   turnover at end of project apparently contributed
                                                                   to difficulties in rating PDO indicators that
                                                                   continued through writing of ICR.

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

83.       The rating comprises the following ICR elements:

         Ensuring quality at entry: The main issues were Results Framework, complexity/over
          ambitious design, number of procurement processes—all of which resulted in the need
          for wholesale restructuring;

         Strategic relevance and approach: The project was needed and client sector needs were
          well known and addressed in the credit;


                                                       39
         Political Ownership: Periods of apparent high ownership—preparation, restructuring,
          conclusion and request for a new operation—counterbalanced by low disbursement and
          slow implementation and some turnover problems;

         Policy and Institutional Aspects: Issues included over ambitious design and targets
          resulting in a wholesale Restructuring.;

         Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects: Limited counterpart funding problems and
          satisfactory financial and economic analysis is balanced by the technical analysis which
          resulted in an overly ambitious/complicated operation requiring restructurings and
          extensions;

         Bank Inputs and Processes: The Bank‘s knowledge of the country situation building on
          previous operations and country assessments was an asset;

         Monitoring and Evaluation: Failure through 2007 to work with a Results Framework,
          two restructured PDO indicators were not tracked in ISRs, and difficulty to determine
          PDO indicator achievements at end of loan owing to turnover of Project Coordinator and
          M&E specialist more than counter-balance significant improvement in restructured
          Results Framework;

         Risk Assessment: The main drawback is the misalignment between the loan‘s complexity
          and Angola‘s status as a post conflict limited capacity country; and

         Implementation Arrangements: The Bank seems to have managed the operation
          satisfactorily starting in the second year based on the ISR ratings —prior to that three
          TMs worked on the project and turnover impeded implementation progress. The
          Restructurings and extensions were fully justified and the former showed creativity and
          were relatively well done. However, this is balanced by lack of training of counterparts,
          no MTR, procurement delays, somewhat inflated ratings and a totally unacceptable
          Results Framework/supervision situation. The Implementation Arrangements designed
          for the counterpart were also not fully effecvtive—the complexity of the operation,
          decentralized client component management and delayed procurement reflecting the need
          for more attention to bolstering project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

84.       The rating comprises the following ICR elements.

         Adequacy of Supervision of Inputs and Processes. There seems to have been few
          problems following Restructuring. The two Angola-based TMs doubtless contributed
          importantly to improved performance and performance following the 2007 restructuring
          was satisfactory. Performance is downgraded to MS because of TM turnover the first 2
          years of the project during which time little was reported and the Results Framework/ISR
          problem prior to Restructuring

                                                 40
         Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects. Safeguards were not an issue. There
          were few fiduciary problems mentioned.

         Focus on Development Impact. See M&E above. During the first half of the loan there
          was no functioning Results Framework and the post 2007 phase also had M&E problems
          that undercut development impact focus.

         Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting: Ratings should have been downgraded
          for low disbursement and slow implementation prior to restructuring. The ubiquitous
          M&E/Results Framework problem pulls down this rating.

         Role of Ensuring Adequate Transition Arrangements: A follow-on loan is very much
          needed. Lacking this, other IFIs and the GoA should be mobilized to consolidate and
          expand gains. At the moment, discussions on doing a Fee for Service operation are
          underway. It is unlikely that this will meet GoA‘s needs but given the current Bank
          emphasis on flat budgets and reducing African operations this may be the Best that can
          be done.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

85.     Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision are both rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The loan took 8 years and disbursed 85% of the original credit. The restructurings and
extensions were well done and justified. All of this converges to a MU rating. The one caveat is
that given the problems of working in post-conflict Angola the rating given is project specific.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

86.       This rating is comprised of the following ICR elements:

         Government ownership and commitment to development objectives: Once again, periods
          of heightened ownership during preparation, restructuring and extensions and desire for a
          follow-on operation are balanced by slow implementation/disbursement and end of
          project key vacancies in the PIU;

         Enabling environment, supportive policies: Of particular note are the reforms in INE and
          those introduced by EMCB and FINSEC prior to the loan. Funding was generally
          adequate and a great deal was achieved including establishment of regulatory bodies and
          tools (see 3.5-b);




                                                 41
      Adequacy of beneficiary/stakeholder consultations and involvement: Loan preparation
       was broad reaching and consultations seem to have been adequate for this type of
       operation;

      Readiness for Implementation. The slow start-up owing to project complexity and
       procurement delays should have been foreseen and mitigating measures undertaken;

      Timely resolution of implementation issues: The project started slowly, implementation
       and disbursement was slow, especially at the beginning, procurement delays occurred and
       there were turnover problems at the end of the project when the Project Coordinator and
       Procurement Specialist departed and were not replaced for 10 months. There is also a
       brief period when counterpart funding was a problem corresponding with the onset of a
       difficult fiscal period;

      Fiduciary oversight. The audits and ISRs identify no real problems. Over the 8 years the
       audits were almost always on time and unqualified. The PIU began using excel tables but
       upgraded to more appropriate software. Procurement was slow and there was in one ISR
       a mention of a possible INT intervention but this apparently was dropped when the
       offending process was paid for by the client. Otherwise there were no ‗fiduciary‘
       problems cited;

      Adequacy of monitoring and evaluation. The FM excel and later software apparently
       were adequate. The Results Framework problems prior to 2007 were the Bank‘s fault –
       reporting on the original ISR results matrix should have been required. Nevertheless, the
       lack of clear information on PDO indicator achievements, the ambiguity, information not
       extending beyond 2009 in some cases, the difficulty in finalizing the ICR for lack of such
       information and the absence of key staff for significant periods at the end of the project
       mitigate against a higher rating;

      Relationships and coordination with partners and stakeholders. There were no other
       donors involved, and Bank-GoA-project relations were good including with component
       stakeholders; and

      Adequacy of transition arrangements after loan closing. The GoA asked for a follow-up
       loan to consolidate and extend gains. Owing to Bank constraints the discussion is
       currently about continuing Bank engagement through a fee for service. Hence, the client
       has done its best to put in place adequate transition arrangements. The one caveat is that
       there are numerous initiatives put in place by the loan that could lapse if
       enforcement/operationalization is not pursued vigorously by the GoA. Hence, a broader
       time horizon than that offered by an ICR is required to evaluate GoA performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

87.    The longest serving Task Manager who took over in the second year of the operation and
stayed through the restructuring called the PIU the best he has seen. Nevertheless, slow

                                               42
disbursement, continuing procurement problems, inability to maintain high levels of government
commitment (see above) and especially the final year of the operation during which the PIU
suffered from the lack of a coordinator and procurement specialist reduce this rating to MU. The
inability of the PIU to provide adequate M&E information on Results Framework indicators
following restructuring and especially in the final two years of the operation also pull down this
rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

88.    Borrower performance ratings under this project plus slow implementation and
disbursement and performance against PDO Indicators are a justification for the rating.
Nevertheless, the low rating does not reflect the overall context of the country situation since
Angola was a post-conflict country ravaged by years of civil war and with weak institutions.

6. Lessons Learned

89.    The Lessons Learned from the earlier EMCB and FINSEC projects (see Section 2-A
Project Design) are still relevant. The PAD Lessons Learned is still relevant and includes the
following:

         Government’s ownership and reform commitment are vital to success. EMTA ownership
          waxed and waned over the course of the loan and was especially weak at the end of the
          project when turnover and inability to provide final output data were especially
          problematic;

         An initial period should be devoted to train local staff responsible for project
          management. The relatively slow start-up and lack of disbursement might have been
          mitigated by preparing procurement processes as part of credit preparation and providing
          training to the project implementers;

         Additional supervision resources are likely to be needed. There is no indication this was
          done;

         The Bank and Government should work to minimize team turnover. Client turnover at the
          beginning and end of the project were problems—otherwise the situation was stable; and

         A Mid-Term Review could be an opportunity to restructure or close the project. There
          was no MTR and the project was restructured in 2007.

90.       Based upon EMTA performance a few more Lessons can be added.

         Intentionally designing an over-ambitious project in a difficult country situation may be
          desirable. Institutional strengthening takes far more than a normal project life of 4-5
          years especially given normal effectiveness and procurement delays. The Bank may need
          a vehicle for engaging the client across a broad spectrum of governance areas and

                                                 43
    especially in an Angola-type environment. EMTA results suggest that extending an
    overly-ambitious project when implementation progress is satisfactory may be good,
    cost-effective practice.

   Having long serving Task Managers residing in country for such a difficult
    project/country situation is highly desirable. Building relationships, working through
    problems, maintaining close contact –something that would not have been possible from
    outside the country proved essential.

   Lessons Learned are important and are ignored at the team’s risk. A number of the
    lessons above if taken more seriously would have benefited EMTA.

   TALs purporting to affect governance and management are intrinsically complicated.
    Country capacity should be weighed carefully and especially when weighting the
    likelihood that a post-conflict IDA country with weakened institutions can handle a
    multi-sector operation with numerous procurement processes.

   Once a loan is approved it is mostly about ownership and procurement. Operationally,
    investments in procurement capacity are important. Preparing procurement processes
    prior to approval can also help.

   There is a natural tendency to inflate ratings and obfuscate problems when carrying out
    supervision. PSG portfolio ratings are systematically downgraded when evaluated by
    third parties. Candid supervision and identification of problems should be rewarded so
    problems can be identified and addressed early.

   More attention may need to be accorded the PDO Indicators and Results Framework at
    the design stage. The first ISR is critical and once problems are identified they should be
    followed up until resolved. There is no excuse for not having resolved the Results
    Framework problems prior to approval or shortly thereafter. Furthermore, achieving
    efficiency and transparency in resource management through capacity building and
    institutional framework do not end with establishing formal institutional frameworks or
    even creating agencies. The PDO portends that what is created should work as intended.
    Achieving the PDO indicators could be and largely was done. It is not clear that EMTA
    ever would have had time or resources to do the work needed to assure the PDO is met.
    When words like efficiency, transparency, and capacity building are used they need to be
    aligned with project design to ensure they can be achieved. This is a case where the PDO
    is not aligned with design or with PDO indicators. ‗PDO humility‘ is required, especially
    when dealing with TALs.

   Special efforts should be undertaken when warranted to consolidate important gains with
    follow-up operations—either Bank or other IFI. EMTA and the GoA warrant a follow-up
    operation to consolidate gains across a wide spectrum of inter-linked, critical activities.




                                            44
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
(See Annex 7)

(b) Cofinanciers
 Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None-Not Applicable




                                        45
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                          Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
         Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                             millions)
PLANNING                                      0.55                  0.72           3%
STATISTCS                                     5.80                  6.33          29%
PUBLIC FINANCE                                6.22                  6.41          31%
CENTRAL BANK                                  4.94                  6.21          25%
PIU                                           1.79                                 8%
         Total Baseline Cost                 19.30                19.67           96%
Physical/Price Contingencies                  0.70                   -            4%
             Total Project Costs             20.00                19.67          100%
     Total Financing Required                20.00                19.67          100%



   (b) Financing

                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  3.40        3.40        17%
International Development
                                                          16.60       16.01          83%
Association (IDA)




                                              46
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This is a TAL operation and all important outputs are accordingly institutional strengthening.
Drawing on section 3.5-b, the following are the main component results.

                         Table 12: EMTA Outputs by Component

PDO Indicator                       Achieved
1. Produce new strategies/          Rating: Partially Completed (MU).
   investment programs—
   MINPLAN 2009-13: 5 sectors       Sector programs were done utilizing a new methodology;
   and 5 provinces                  according to the latest GoA report, provincial programs are
                                    being developed.
Component: Ministry of Planning
2. Publication of National          Rating: Completed (S)
   Accounts using SNA93
   methodology: updating            National accounts have now been revised through 2009 and
   accounts from 2002 to present    should soon be applied on timely basis to previous year
                                    accounts on a regular basis
Component: Ministry of Finance
3. Regular publication of           Rating: Partial (MU)
   ECP/MDG data: Second
   Household survey IDR2            IDR2 was finalized published in 2010 after. There is no
   finalized and published.         indication of regular ECP/MDG data publication.

Component: National Statistics
Institute
4. Budgets and General Accounts     Rating: Completed (S)
    published including non-
    financial assets starting in    A module (SIGPE) which captures all non-financial assets
    2007.                           has been integrated into the national FMIS (SIGFE). This
                                    information is available on the MoF website on a timely
                                    basis (data available through 6/10) and in the Jornal de
Component: Ministry of Finance      Angola.
                                    A law governing non- financial assets was approved (Lei da
                                    Gestao dos Activos Patrimoniais Nao-Financeiros) and two
                                    Presidential Decrees emitted governing norms and
                                    procedures.
5. Three large contracts procured   Rating: Partially Completed (MU).
   under new procurement law
   regulations that was to be       The new law was passed (Lei da Gestao dos Activos
   submitted to and approved by     Ptrimoniais Nao-Financeiros do Estado) and is being
   the National Assembly.           implemented. A Presidential Decree was emitted which
                                    created a Public Contracts Committee. An oversight agency
Component: Ministry of Finance      structure was approved by the MoF and put in place. The
                                    GoA was unable to provide timely evidence for the ICR that

                                             47
                                    3 large contracts had been procured.
6. A new framework for the          Rating: Completed (S).
   Finance Inspection Department
   (INF) approved by the Council    A new Constitutional law (Lei da Probidade Publica) and
   of Minnisters and (by 2009)      the new budget law (Lei Quadro do Orcamento Geral do
   ten audits will be done by the   Estado) contribute to defining internal control. A
   strengthened INF audit agency    Presidential Decree approved the setting up of a reformed
   each with follow-up actions.     Financial Inspectorate General office. Audits with follow-up
                                    actions in sufficient number are being produced.
Component: Ministry of Finance
7. New public debt management       Rating: Completed (MU)
   institutional framework
   approved by Council of           A Presidential Decree was emitted in 2010 addressing debt
   Ministers                        management. A Debt Management unit was established in
                                    the MoF. It is functioning (but apparently in need of TA and
                                    training). A new law regarding debt sustainability is
Component: Ministry of Finance      expected in 2011.
8. Central Bank runs RTGS           Rating: Completed (S)
   (settlements) software without
   interruption for 2 years.        RTGS in place and running almost flawlessly

Component: Ministry of Finance
9. A new institutional              Rating: Partially Completed (MU)
   organization of BNA Internal
   Audit Department is approved     There were relatively fewer internal audits with follow-up
   by the BNA Board and             actions in the last two years: 6 in 2009 and 4 in 2010.
   produces 12 internal audit       However, this is due in large part because there is an
   reports with follow-up actions   ongoing comprehensive reform lead by an international
   (by 12/2009).                    consultant firm that should measurably strengthen the
                                    Central Bank audit function. This, too, has been factored into
    Component: Central Bank         the rating.
10. New legal and regulatory         Rating: Completed (MS)
    framework for anti-Money
    laundering and related          In 5/10 the National Assembly approved legislation creating
    prevention measures             an agency to combat money laundering. Presidential Decree
    articulated and approved by     no. 35/11 of 15/2/11 established the UIF agency which is
    Council of Ministers.           staffed and functioning with an adequate legal and regulatory
                                    framework.
Component: Central Bank
1. Monitoring 3 sector and 3        Rating: Partially Completed
   provincial programs 2007-08
2. 2000-2001 Household Survey       Rating: Completed
   results published
3. Publication of preliminary       Rating: Completed
   Household Survey #2
4. Publication of the final         Rating: Partially Completed

                                             48
    Household Survey IDR2
5. New public contracting law        Rating: Completed
    presented to the National
    Assembly
6. New organization to               Rating: Completed
    implement public contracting
    approved by MoF
7. MIS for public debt               Rating: Partially Completed
    management functional and
    updated with current data
8. New organization for public       Rating: Completed
    debt management approved by
    the Council of Ministers
9. BNA settlements system fully      Rating: Completed
    functional for 2 years
10. New internal audit               Rating: Partially Completed
    organization approved by BNA
11. New AML organization             Rating: Partially Completed
    approved by the Council of
    Ministers and functional

In addition, a great deal of work was done to contribute to these PDO outputs/outcomes that can
also be counted as important and ‗permanent‘ institutional strengthening outputs. The GoA‘s
own final report, Relatorio Global de Projeto, enumerates initiatives/outputs that will certainly
contribute to agency/GoA improved performance including, inter alia, the following.

   Ministry of Planning. Updating of performance and poverty indicators and targets.

   Central Bank/BNA. Software SPTR (settlements); consultant report regarding a new
    functional GAI model, manual of procedures (new unit set up and process design ongoing),
    needs assessments of hardware and software (new IT unit set up) and training; adoption of a
    performance scorecard; formation of an internal projects unit; upgraded payments
    management; complementary regulation of non-banking financial institutions and leasing and
    factoring entities; action plan for combating money laundering; creation of the Ordem dos
    Contabilistas e Revisores de Contas (Association of Accountants);

   INE-National Institute of Statistics. Cartography—upgrade of SIG, acquisition of satellite
    images and consequent updating of sampling of IDR2 Household Survey;

   Ministry of Finance. Operationalization of the new Procurement law including regulations,
    development of a regulatory agency, procurement manuals; preparation of laws, regulations,
    manuals, classifications etc. pertaining to public patrimony, software use; strengthening of
    INF management and information resources including internal control software (CIAFE), IT
    plan, training, approval of new staffing plan.



                                               49
                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.       This issue was also addressed in the ICR text under 3.3 Efficiency. PAD Annex 4,
―Summary of benefits and costs‖ rightly points out that ―the project‘s institutional building characteristics
do not allow for an accurate calculation of rates of return‖. It provides no analysis or projections.
However, in retrospect one can look at what was spent and what was ‗purchased‘ and derive a good idea
of the magnitude of potential economic gains. The bottom line is that for about $16.1 million a great deal
that was important was done. Much larger SWAps and DPLs occasionally use some of the indicators met
by this small, $19.7 million operation. These include the following laws and decrees –reforms typically
reimbursed by DPLs. EMTA properly does not include approval of laws as Results Framework
objectives but the operation substantially contributed to their approval and implementation.

        Approval of Non-Financial Assets Law, Presidential Decrees and creation of software to record
         such assets plus their incorporation into published national accounts
        Approval of an Anti-Money Laundering Law, legal and regulatory framework and the
         establishing of an agency
        Approval of a Law Governing Public Contracting and complementary Presidential Decree
         creating a Public Contracting Committee and normal and regulations governing public
         contracting
        Emission of a Presidential Decree regarding Public Debt Management (a new law is expected in
         2011) and establishing of a framework of norms, regulations and an agency to manage debt.
        Presidential Decree establishing the internal control agency, National Financial Inspectorate
         supported in a new Constitutional law governing public ethics and a new Budget law.


2.      Put differently, if this had been a DPL the cost of the the Results Framework package could be
$10 million. Also there is significant potential for cost savings if EMTA interventions are followed-up
and enforced. Drawing from the PDO Indicators, the following observations are presented on potential
returns which give comfort that EMTA investments are justified.

                            Table 13: EMTA Economic & Financial Returns

PDO Indicator                Achieved                         Observation/Returns
1. Produce           new     Rating:      Partially Completed A 0.1% one year only improvement in
   strategies/ investment    (MU).                            sector allocations applied to the 2011
   programs—                                                  Federal budget of $4.2 billion is $4.2
   MINPLAN 2009-13:                                           million/year.
   5 sectors and 5
   provinces
2. Publication         Rating: Completed (S)
                       of                                          Planning and M&E cannot be done
   National            National accounts for 2002-2010
                 Accounts                                          without credible National Accounts
   using          SNA93and provisional accounts for 2011
   methodology:        will be published in the first
   updating            trimester of 2012.
                 accounts                      Accounts
   from 2002 to presentthrough 2009 have been revised
                       completely according to SNA93
3. Regular publication Rating:     Partially Completed             Poverty data is fundamental to planning
   of ECP/MDG data: (MU)                                           and management of large poverty
   Second  Household                                               mitigation programs. The returns to
   survey        IDR2 IDR2 was finalized published in              more efficient resource allocation are

                                                     50
     finalized            and 2010 after. INE has no current suggested by #1 above, especially
     published.                plan to publish annual/regular considering that education and health
                               ECP/MDG data.                   budgets are consistently among the 2-3
                                                               largest across countries.
4.   Budgets and General Rating: Completed (S)                 Registering and managing            large
     Accounts published                                        Government non-financial assets is
     including           non-                                  potentially an important source of
     financial         assets                                  returns.
     starting in 2007.
5.   Three large contracts Rating:         Partially Completed Procurement accounts often from 10-
     procured under new (MU).                                  30% of a national budget. A small one
     procurement          law                                  time 1% efficiency gain for 10% of the
     regulations that were                                     2011 budget of about $4.2b is $4.2m
     to be submitted to                                        /year
     and approved by the
     National Assembly.
6.   A new framework for Rating: Completed (S).                Audit is an essential Government
     the             Finance                                   function.        Funds reconciliation,
     Inspection                                                recovery, or elimination of corrupt
     Department         (INF)                                  practices can potentially recover/save
     approved by the                                           $ millions.
     Council of Minnisters
     and (by 2009) ten
     audits will be done by
     the strengthened INF
     audit agency each
     with          follow-up
     actions.
7.   New public debt Rating: Completed (MS)                     Debt management may generate the
     management                                                highest returns of any of the EMTA
     institutional                                             interventions.    Considering that the
     framework approved                                        GoA public debt in 2011 is around $18
     by      Council        of                                 billion, a 1% one year saving in debt
     Ministers                                                 management is the equivalent of $18
                                                               million or roughly the cost of the entire
                                                               credit.
8.   Central Bank runs Rating: Completed (S)                   Timely settlements obviate the need to
     RTGS (settlements)                                        pay accumulated interest and penalties
     software        without                                   and builds business confidence.
     interruption for 2
     years.
9.   A new institutional Rating:         Partially Completed See #6 above. The implementation and
     organization of BNA (MU)                                  extension of internal audits also has the
     Internal           Audit                                  potential to improve government
     Department             is There were relatively fewer management of expenditures and
     approved by the BNA internal audits with follow-up identify misused funds.
     Board and produces actions in the last two years: 6 in
     12 internal audit 2009 and 4 in 2010. However,
     reports with follow- this is due in large part because
     up      actions      (by there     is       an    ongoing


                                                   51
   12/2009).               comprehensive reform lead by an
                           international consultant firm that
    Component: Central should measurably strengthen the
    Bank                   Central Bank audit function.
                           This, too has been factored into
                           the rating.
10. New      legal    and Rating: Completed (MS)              Money laundering undercuts good fiscal
    regulatory framework                                      governance contributing to a culture of
    for        anti-Money                                     corruption and costing significant
    laundering        and                                     amounts in lost revenues. Further
    related     prevention                                    research is needed to estimate the
    measures articulated                                      magnitude of the problem.
    and approved by
    Council of Ministers.

3.       We would further add that pp. 7-27 of the client prepared Relatorio Global do Projecto
details procurement and related activities undertaken for each EMTA component. It is clear that
a great amount was done that will support more efficient funds allocation, fiduciary oversight
and savings.




                                                 52
        Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members

                                                                             Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
 JorgeAraujo                  Sr. Economist - TTL                   MNSED
Helena Grandao Ramos          Consultant (Economist)                PRMPS
John Ngwafon                  Economist -                           AFTDE
                              Sr. Financial Sector Development
Olivier Lambert                                                     MICOP
                              Specialist
Charles Schulumberger         Sr. Financial Sector Specialist       TWITR
Robert Keppler                Sr. Adviser                            FIPFI
Slaheddine Ben-Halima         Sr. Adviser                            FIPFI
Christine De Mariz            Consultant (Procurment Reform)        LCSPS
Subash Dhingra                Consultant (Procurement Reform)        CGP
Isabella Micali-Drossos       Sr. Consultant                        LEGES
Jose C. Janeiro               Sr. Finance Officer (Disbursement)    CTRFC
                              Lead Financial Management
Iraj Talai                                                          HDNHE
                              Specialist
                              Consultant (Financial
Magaye Gaye
                              Management )
                              Sr. Economist (Quality Assurance
Joao do Carmo Oliveira                                              AFRCE
                              Team)
                              Sr. Statician (Quality Assurance
Antoine Simonpietri                                                 AFRCE
                              Team)

Supervision
Ricardo Costat Gazel          Sr. Economist                         AFTP1
Joao Tinga                    Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Amoes Malate                  Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Sonia Guillerme               Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Antonio Chamuco               Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Maria Margarita Baessa        Program Assistant                     AFMAO
Domingas Pegado               Program Assistant                     AFMAO
 Kai-Alexander Kaiser         Senior Economist                      PRMPS
 Robert Keppler               Consultant                            ECSPF
 Juan Eduardo Munoz           Consultant                            ECSPE
 Marilyne Pereira Goncalves   Financial Sector Specialist            FPDFI
 Rogerio F. Pinto             Consultant                            AFTHE
 Kathrin A. Plangemann        Lead Public Sector Specialist         AFTPR
 Diane E. Steele              Household Survey Coordinator           DECPI

                                               53
Stuart Yikona                  Sr Financial Sector Spec.          FPDFI
Kjetil Hansen                  Economist                          AFTP1
Reynaldo Castro                Consultant                         AFTPR

   (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                            29                       101.68
  FY02                                            29                       208.96
  FY03                                            23                       107.59
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                             Total:               81                       418.23
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                       0.00
  FY02                                                                       0.00
  FY03                                             2                        15.88
  FY04                                            28                       162.33
  FY05                                            12                        78.03
  FY06                                            15                        91.77
  FY07                                            20                       106.67
  FY08                                                                      79.66
                             Total:               77                       534.34




                                                 54
                      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No Survey was done.




                                      55
                  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No workshop was held.




                                        56
          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

4.      The government concurred with the Bank‘s overall assessment on the final outcomes and
results of the project. However, government emphasized the need to have long term strategic
relationship with the World Bank as well as full Bank support, commitment and engagement
with Angola to improve key Macro-Economic functions. In this regard, the government stated
that low institution capacity in the public sector is a key factor for the slow performance in Bank
projects in Angola. In return, government indicated its commitment to be engaged with the Bank
and appreciate its good understanding of Angola‘s status as a post-conflict country with a lot of
public sector deficiencies and limitations in which the project has made some great strides.

5.      As follow-up of the recently completed project, the government expressed desire for
support in the macro-economic area especially in the following areas: (i) monitoring and
evaluation of national and provincial plans; (ii) production of core National, Provincial and Local
Statistics including a new national statistic strategy plan, the national population survey-census
2013, a survey of industrial statistics, support to INE decentralization process at provincial and
local government level and improvement of access to statistic information; (iii) public
investment management (PIM), where some collaboration has been provided by African
Development Bank (ADB); (iv) Private-Public Partnership initiatives based on the recently
approved PPP law and in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy; and, (v) public financial
management based on the recommendations of the Ernest and Young report (2010) and Ministry
of Finance requests. The government also sought continued interventions of the Bank on
capacity building initiatives and training activities as a fundamental pillar for the reconstruction
of public institutions.

Objectives

6.       The project‘s original objective formulated during initial preparation was revised in 2007.
The original objective was to strengthen the Government's capacity to formulate sound analysis
and to implement sound policies in areas which are critical to the management of public
resources, including: poverty analysis; the setting-up of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system; the formulation and monitoring of a sound Public Investment Program (PIP); and the
establishment of a more transparent and efficient public finance framework. The revised
objective formulated in 2007 was to improve efficiency and transparency of public resource
management, by improving the institutional framework and building capacity in relevant public
institutions to articulate and implement public investment and financial policies and processes.
Despite being revised both the original and revised objectives are clear, realistic and highly
relevant and consistent with government‘s policy and plans for strengthening capacity towards
efficient management of public resources.




                                                57
Achievement of the Objectives

7.       Among the achievements of the project are the following:

        ECP/MDG data are being produced and published annually. IDR2 field work was
         finished in June 2009 and the first report was prepared and published in December 2009.
        The Public Procurement Law No. 18-10 was approved by the National Assembly and was
         published in the Official Gazette on August 6, 2011.
        Selected large procurement contracts were processed under the new public procurement
         law
        The final report of first national household survey (IDR2) was published and basic IBEP
         collected data were produced and shared with Development Partners, July 2010.
        The new procurement institutional framework was approved by MINFIN with the
         passing of the Presidential Decree No. 298-10 that created a Public Procurement
         Committee within MIFIN on December 3, 2011.
        Public debt management data was successfully updated.
        The new debt management framework was approved by the council of ministers and the
         Presidential Decree No. 169-10 was published in the Official Gazette on August 9, 2010.

Key Outcomes and Results by Components

Assistance to MINPLAN

8.     MINPLAN is currently implementing the Medium Term Development Strategy (MTDS)
2009-2013 applying the Methodological Framework (quadro metodologico de planeamento),
prepared under the EMTA. Based on this, the government benefited from various capacity
building activities related to provision of training for representatives of all 18 provinces and 68
municipalities. Additionally, government is preparing the Annual Investment Plans 2011-13
which would benefit greatly from information and data that were collected by the household
survey funded by EMTAP.

Support to INE

9.      INE will start producing GDP data on a quarterly basis from 2011. There are, however,
other tasks such as the Consumption Aggregate and the Poverty Line calculation that are not yet
carried out due to lack of capacity and technical assistance. Procurement of equipment for INE
could not be funded by the Bank because of various reasons including consistency with Bank
procedures.

Support to MINFIN

10.    The Non-Financial Law (Ley do Patrimonio do Estado- Lei No. 18-10) was printed on
the Official Gazette on August 6, 201. Subsequently, Presidential Decree No. 177/10 dated
August 13, 2010, the instruction of the law, and Presidential Decree No. 148/10 of July 20, 2010
were subsequently approved. The Procurement Law No. 20/10 was published in the official
Gazette on September 7, 2010. Presidential Decree No. 298-10 of December 3, 2010 created a

                                                58
Public Procurement Committee within the Ministry of Finance structure. The SIGMA system
(Subsistema de Gestao e Monitorizacao da Arrecadacao) was successfully implemented in 2009,
allowing the monitoring of tax collection during the year and identification of taxes by budget
categories, type of taxes, origin of resources, etc. Additionally, SIGMA has helped to estimate
future taxes, due statistic analysis and estimate projection or deviations base on previous years.
Also, it has been an important element to monitor budget execution and cash allocation. The Tax
Department and other public offices have benefited from the information now available. A new
national debt management strategy has been prepared. A Debt Management Unit within the
MINFIN was created to manage internal and external debt. Government seeks further technical
assistance to improve front end and back end capacities of the unit.

Support to the Central Bank

11.     The Payments System (SPTR) has been in full operation since 2007. The technical study
for the development of the new curriculum for both undergraduate and graduate degrees at the
Angolan Bankers Training Institute (IFBA) was prepared and finalized under the project. With
the closure of the project, the government expressed concerns about the risk of reduced level in
implementing training activities. The Anti-Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism
legislation was approved by Parliament in May 2010. The new legislation includes the creation
of an Information Financial Unit (IFU) under the Ministry of Interior. The revised version of the
Statute of Accountants (estatuto da ordem de contabilistas) and the new curricula for accounting
and auditing profession were prepared during the project.

Project Management

12.     Both the Project Administrator and the Procurement Officer resigned in June 2010 and
this affected implementation of project activities because of delays in executing required
procurement actions. The project, however, produced and submitted unaudited interim financial
reports (IFRs) in a relatively timely manner.

Major Implementation Issues Encountered

13.     Despite the positive results outlined above, the project faced key challenges which
affected implementation such as the problem described above. Also, more training is needed to
ensure that project staffs are fully trained on the World Bank rules and regulations. The non-
extension of the project also affected the government‘s desire to articulate a follow-on project.

14.      The lack of PPF resources for project preparation and delay in effectiveness affected
negatively the implementation of the project during the initial years. The large number of
activities that were originally included in the project created difficulties in government‘s ability
to evaluate and negotiate the project. However, despite this problem, most of the activities that
were identified were embedded in the various agencies strategic action plans.

15.    There were difficulties identifying local consultants with good understanding of the
World Bank‘s procedures. The lack of counterpart funds initially also caused some activities to
be delayed.

                                                59
Sustainability Issues

16.    Government is committed to continuing reforms in the public sector management.

Key Lessons Learnt

17.    The following lessons were learned:

          There is need to establish clear descriptions of cost categories during project
           formulation
          There is need to formulate baselines of performance indicators of the project during
           preparation.
          All relevant staff should be fully trained in Bank guidelines and procedures.
          The issue of accountability needs to be approached from both the supply-side and
           demand-side.
          Procedures of the Bank need to be harmonized with those of the government in order
           to reduce transaction and overhead costs.

Bank/Lender’s Performance

18.     The Bank contributed positively to all aspects of project design. The Bank supported the
Government‘s lead role in identifying its reform priorities. In reviewing and approving plans,
dialogue was constructive and led to improvements in terms of project interventions. The Bank
showed flexibility in working together with Government to make adjustments in terms of design
as circumstances changed along the way. However, the lack of technical capacity of the Bank
Mission in Angola was a factor in the provision of timely support to the government.
Furthermore, while the task team leader based on Luanda had a relatively good performance,
other task team leaders that were assigned to the project lacked operational experience.

19.     During the restructuring, the Bank was highly supportive and worked cooperatively with
the Government in improving the results framework and other elements. In all cases the Bank
showed a willingness to listen to Government and to improve the Bank‘s own internal planning
and monitoring documents. The Bank provided adequate technical support and resources during
implementation. Generally speaking, reviews and supervision missions were done in a
participatory fashion and the Bank ensured the Government took the lead in order to ensure
ownership. The Bank did not provide sufficient technical support in the areas of financial
management and procurement. Procurement procedures led to significant delays in terms of
implementation. Sometimes, delays were the result of misunderstandings of the guidelines.

20.    The assistance provided by the Bank during the project implementation was well received
by the government. However, the frequent changes of task team leaders affected the project‘s
implementation timetable because of delays in provision of ―No Objections‘ and clearances of
procurement requests.



                                              60
           Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No cofinanciers or other partners/stakeholders




                                                 61
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document, February, 2003.
2. Proposed Restructuring of the Economic Management Technical Assistance Project for the
   Republic of Angola, May, 2007.
a. Related Transmittal and related documents.
3. Projecto de Assistencia Tecnica a Gestao Macroeconomica, Relatorio de Implementacao,
   December, 2008.
4. EMTA Ponto de Situacao, September, 2010.
5. Proposed Project Restructuring of Angola: Economic management Technical Assistance
   Project, December 30, 2010.
a. Related Transmittal and related documents.
6. Proposed Project Restructuring of Angola: Economic management Technical Assistance
   project to the Government of Angola, February, 2011.
7. Aide Memoire: Implementation Supervision mission EMTA, January, 2011
8. Relatorio Global do Projecto: June, 2011.
9. Complete copies of ISRs: June, 2004-March, 2011.




                                            62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33361
                                                                       15°E                                                                                    20°E
                                GABON
                                                                                                                                                                                                  A N GOL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                ANGOLA                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                      C ON G O                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
 5°S                                                                                                                                                                  5°S                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CABINDA                                        To
                                                                  To
                                                             Mbanza-Ngungu
                                            Kimpese
Cabinda

         Soyo         Congo M’banza Congo
                            M’banza                                                                           DEMO CRAT IC                                                                        0     40    80 120 160 200 Kilometers


                            ZAIRE                                                                               REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                  0          40    80        120 Miles
                                                                                U?GE                           O F CO NGO                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                  Tshikapa
                                                  Bembe
                 N'zeto
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                             Kikwit
                                                              Uíge
                                                              Uíge




                                                                                                                                                                       Chicapa
                          Ambriz
                                                                                  Camabatela
                                Caxito                                                                                 Cua
                                              D an de                                                                                           LUNDA                  Lucapa
                                                                                                                          ng



                                                          CUANZA
                                                                                                                            o



                LUANDA                                                                                                                          NORTE
                                                           NOR TE
                                                           NORTE
                       LUANDA                 N’dalatando
                                              N’dalatando




                                                                                                                                                                                              CASSA
                                                                                              Malanje
                                                                                                                                                                       Saurimo
                                                                              C u a nza
                                         BENGO                                                     MALANJE
 10°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10°S
                                                                                                                                                      Cacolo          LUNDA
                                                                                                                                                                         UL
                                                                                                                                                                       SMuconda
                                                           CUANZA                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kolwezi
                            Porto
                            Porto Amboim                                                                                                                                                              Luau
                                                           C uba
                                                                 SUL
 ATLANTIC                            Sumbe
                                                                   l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ez          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mb             Solwezi
   OCEAN                                                                                                                                              Luena                                                             Za
                                                                                                                          Camacupa
                                                                                  HUAMBO
                                   Lobito
                                                                         B í e Plateau
                                                                         Bíe                                 Kuito                                                                Lucusse
                          Benguela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lumbala
                                                                         Huambo
                                                                                                             BIÉ
                                BENGUELA                                                                                                                    MOXICO                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lusaka
                                                                                                           Chitembo
                                                           Caconda


                                                                                                                                                                                  Lumbala
                                                                                                                                                                                 N'guimbo
                                                                                                   Cubango
                                                  HU?LA
                                                           Matala                                                        Menongue
                           Lubango
 15°S                                            Huíla Plateau                                                                                                                                                                               15°S
 Namibe                                       Chibia                                                                                     Cuí
                                                                                                                                         Cuíto
                                                                                                                                         Cuíto
                                                                                                                                     Cuanavale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZAM B I A
                                                                                                                                                                                             Cu
                                                                                                                                                                                             an




Tombua
Tombua                                                                                                                                                                  Mavinga
                                                 Chiange
                                                                                                                                                                                              do




           NAMIBE                                                                                                                      CUANDO
          N a m i b




                                                                                CUNENE                                                 CUBANGO

                                                                   ne
                                                               e




                           ne
                                                           Cu n




                       une                                                                 Ondjiva
                  b
                  b




                      C                         Chitado

                                                                                                                                          Cuangar
             D e




                                                    To                                                                                            Cubango
                                                                                             To
                                               Otjiwarongo                                Tsumeb
                 s e
                 s
                 s




                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                            NAM I B I A                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                     r t




                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                              Etosha Pan       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                             BO T SWA N A
                                                                    15°E                                                                                       20°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 2004
