                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003049



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
         (IBRD-48510 IDA-42630 TF-12392 TF-51814 TF-56729 TF-90309)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 15.2 MILLION
                      (US$19.96 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10 MILLION
                       (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA

                                      FOR A

  LAND ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LAMP) - P096263

                               December 15, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

 (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

          Currency Unit =
         1.00 = US$ 0.0089
         US$ 1.00 = 111.81

          FISCAL YEAR

      January 1 – December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
       Vice President: Laura Tuck
    Country Director: Ellen Goldstein
    Practice Manager: Jorge Munoz
Project Team Leader: Gavin Adlington
   ICR Team Leader: Kathrine Kelm
    ICR Lead Author: Robin McLaren
                                          ALBANIA
                          Land Administration and Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 27
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 29
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 32
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 37
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 39
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 41
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 67
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 79
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 81
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 86
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 87
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 91
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 93
  MAP
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Land Administration
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:             and Management
                                                                          Project (LAMP)
                                                                          IBRD-48510,IDA-
                                                                          42630,TF-12392,TF-
Project ID:             P096263                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          51814,TF-56729,TF-
                                                                          90309
ICR Date:               11/06/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ALBANIA
Original Total
                        USD 34.96M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 32.87M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 34.29M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Immovable Property Registration Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)
 Government of Japan Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/29/2005     Effectiveness:          07/23/2007           07/23/2007
                                                                                  01/21/2011
Appraisal:            09/14/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  06/17/2013
Approval:             02/22/2007     Mid-term Review:                             03/20/2009
                                     Closing:                12/31/2011           06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory




                                            i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                        Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                    Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                   Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:               Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                           Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       21                  21
Law and justice                                                         1                       1
Sub-national government administration                                  78                  78


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  13                  13
Land administration and management                                      25                  25
Legal institutions for a market economy                                 13                  13
Personal and property rights                                            25                  25
Urban planning and housing policy                                       24                  24

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                             Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Practice
                           Jorge Munoz                            Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Gavin P. Adlington                     Wael Zakout
ICR Team Leader:           Kathrine Kelm


                                                ii
ICR Primary Author:         Robin A. McLaren


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall goal of the long-term land administration and management program is to
facilitate the development of efficient land and property markets through enhancing
tenure security and improving land administration and management services. The long-
term program is expected to be implemented through 3 phases of 4 years each.

The proposed LAMP project is the first phase of such a program. The specific objective
of the project is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and
urban management through enhancing tenure security, improving urban planning, land
management and development control, supporting property valuation and taxation, and
financing investments in urban infrastructure and services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
With the restructuring in January 2011, the PDO was revised to: (i) improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and management through enhanced
tenure security and improved urban planning; and (ii) rebuild physical assets and restore
essential services in the flood affected areas. The component on the development of land
administration and management remained intact but with a reduced intermediate outcome
indicator target for the number of titles issued under the project. The urban planning and
municipal investment components were scaled back, and some funds were reallocated to
a new emergency response component.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction in time to register property transaction
Value
quantitative or   47.00                     10.00               5.00           6.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/03/2007                                      01/06/2011      05/23/2014
Comments          Efficiency of reduction in time to register a property transaction improved by 87
(incl. %          per cent vs. the baseline of 47 days. Target of 5 days missed by 2 per cent of
achievement)      baseline value.
Indicator 2 :     Customer satisfaction of the IPRO is improved
Value
quantitative or   Very Poor                 Very Good           Very Good      Average
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/03/2007                                 01/06/2011      06/30/2014
Comments          IPRO customer service rating was to be measured on a six-point scale: very poor,


                                               iii
(incl. %          poor, average, good, very good, excellent. Over the life of the project, the rating
achievement)      improved 3 points from 'very poor' to 'average.' Target of 'very good' missed by 2
                  points.
Indicator 3 :     Direct project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or   0                                              150,000         150,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/06/2011                                      01/06/2011      06/23/2014
Comments          New indicator added at time of restructuring. Project targeted 150,000 direct
(incl. %          beneficiaries from the installation of flood protection services in Shkodra. The
achievement)      target was met successfully.
Indicator 4 :     Agricultural land protected by rehabilitated drainage pumps
Value
quantitative or   0 hectares                                     9,100 hectares 9,100 hectares
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/06/2011                                                   06/30/2014
Comments          New indicator added at time of restructuring. Target achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of titles issued in urban and rural areas.
Value
(quantitative   0                           500,000            400,000          357,383
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                       01/06/2011       06/30/2014
                89% target completion. By 06/30/2014, 424,671 had completed fieldwork phase
Comments
                and conversion to registered titles is an administrative process underway at
(incl. %
                IPRO. Final number of titles that will be processed is 427,045. As of 10/31/2014
achievement)
                (last day of contract), 357,383 properties had been registered.
Indicator 2 : Number of automated offices
Value
(quantitative   0                           10                 10               35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                       01/06/2011       06/30/2014
Comments        By 06/30/2014 all 10 of 10 target local offices have a fully functional land
(incl. %        administration IT system. Since then all of the other offices in the country have
achievement) put the system in place.
Indicator 3 : Number of local offices that received training.
Value
(quantitative   0                           10                 10               35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                       01/06/2011       06/30/2014


                                                iv
Comments        IT training was planned for all 10 local offices that were installing the land
(incl. %        administration IT system. The system was successfully installed and training in
achievement)    all 35 offices was completed through on-line training modules. Target
                successfully met.
Indicator 4 :   Number of municipalities that completed the regulatory plans.
Value
(quantitative   0                            12                  8              8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                                        02/11/2011
Comments        All eight of eight target territorial plans were completed. Target successfully met.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of municipalities that completed interim reforms and qualified for the
Indicator 5 :
                first phase of investments
Value
(quantitative   0                            8                   10             10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                                        01/21/2011
Comments
                All ten of ten target municipalities completed interim reforms and qualified for
(incl. %
                the first phase of investment.
achievement)
                Cities in which new street addressing and building numbering system
Indicator 6 :
                implemented
Value
(quantitative   0                            11                  10             13
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/06/2007                                                        12/15/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved and exceeded by 30 percent.
achievement)
                Number of municipalities that received training in procurement and financial
Indicator 7 :
                management
Value
(quantitative   0                            12                  10             10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                                        01/21/2011
Comments
                All ten of ten target municipalities received procurement and financial
(incl. %
                management training. Target successfully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Investment in priority infrastructure and services completed
                                             13 municipalities
Value                                        (8 municipalities
                                                                 4
(quantitative   0                            for Phase I; 5                     4 municipalities
                                                                 municipalities
or Qualitative)                              municipalities for
                                             Phase II)
Date achieved 01/03/2007                                          01/06/2011    12/15/2012
Comments        Investment in priority infrastructure and services was completed in all 4 of 4
(incl. %        (revised target) municipalities. Target successfully met.



                                               v
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Flood Drainage Pumping Stations Rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                                             3               2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/06/2011                                    01/06/2011      03/31/2014
Comments
                  Two out of the target 3 drainage pumping stations (DPS) were rehabilitated. The
(incl. %
                  third DPS was not completed by the closing date. 66.6% achievement of target.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Water Supply Pumping Stations Rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                                             3               3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/06/2011                                    01/06/2011      03/31/2014
Comments
                  All three of the target three water supply pumping stations were rehabilitated.
(incl. %
                  Target successfully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Water testing equipment installed and in use in Shkodra
Value
(quantitative     0                                             1               0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/06/2011                                      01/06/2011      05/23/2014
Comments          This activity was not started due to the lack of interest from the Shkodra Water
(incl. %          Supply Utility.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     03/19/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     10/25/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       1.98
  3     05/21/2008       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                1.98
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  4     10/10/2008                                                                            3.88
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  5     06/03/2009                                                                            3.95
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  6     08/01/2009                                                                            4.51
                            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately
  7     11/21/2009                                   Moderately Satisfactory                  4.51
                            Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  8     06/18/2010                                                                            6.06
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                  Moderately
  9     02/26/2011                                                                            7.23
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
 10     02/07/2012       Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately                         12.11



                                                vi
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
 11    07/11/2012   Moderately Satisfactory                              15.76
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
 12    12/29/2012                                                        17.76
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 13    08/05/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory    23.76
 14    12/03/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory    24.62
 15    06/16/2014   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory    27.93


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Scope of Components B and C
 01/21/2011       N       MU    MU            7.01   was reduced, and a new
                                                     Component D was added.
 06/17/2013       N       MU    MU           22.78   Project extension




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Albania has carried out land and property administration reforms since 1991 and
substantial progress had been made in ownership transfer and recognition of property
rights. Land privatization, registration of ownership rights and land use planning have
been incrementally addressed by the government.

The Government created in 1993 the Immovable Property Registration Office (IPRO),
currently subordinated to the Ministry of Justice, with a network of 35 district offices.
The agency had a mandate to register land ownership rights and property transactions.
The government with support from donors (especially, the USAID, the EU and OSCE)
undertook a major program in registering property rights (so called, first registration),
where most of agriculture land was registered, but limited registration was done in urban
areas. Despite this progress, there were concerns over the quality of data collected in
these early projects and considerable effort was required to make the data fit for purpose.
Furthermore, the government started the process of restitution of properties to owners
whose land was confiscated prior to 1945. The process to regularize informal settlements
was also initiated with support from the UNDP and the OSCE.

In regard to the urban land, the government devolved the responsibility of land use
planning and development control and property taxation functions to local government.
Furthermore, it initiated the process to transfer the management of state land to local
authorities.

Despite this progress, land management in Albania continued to face significant
challenges. Firstly, land and property rights were not fully secure. At the time of PAD,
there were still about 600,000 urban and around 300,000 rural parcels not yet registered.
The registration process was particularly slow in valuable urban and coastal areas.

Secondly, the IPRO was criticized in the past for lack of efficiency and transparency, and
the process of registering property transactions being often very time-consuming and
expensive because of the high informal payments. The leadership of the IPRO at the start
of the project was determined to improve the quality of services provided to the public,
reduce the transaction times and eliminate informal payments. The process of reform was
started, but it was recognized that it would take a few years to fully transform the IPRO
into an efficient, transparent and effective organization.

Thirdly, the slow pace of resolution of restitution and compensation claims had
undermined the security of property rights and slowed down their registration, especially
in the high value-coastal areas. The government enacted several laws and established the
compensation/restitution commission to deal with this complex issue. However, the
compensation formula provided by the law was beyond the means of government budget.
As a result, little progress was made.




                                          1
Fourthly, large numbers of illegal land subdivisions and construction projects had taken
place, primarily on peri-urban areas and in tourism zones. Significant urbanization had
occurred since the demise of the socialist regime in 1991 when the restrictions on internal
migration were removed. Most of this development had taken place in peri-urban areas,
often with no property rights, nor adequate zoning or building permit procedures. The
rapid urbanization in absence of sound policy and enforcement of laws was recognized as
a major threat to sustainable urban development in Albania.

Fifthly, while the government devolved many functions of urban land management to
local governments through the decentralization process, local authorities often did not
have the capacity or the financial resources to undertake these functions effectively. Still,
most of them did not have an approved regulatory plan. Therefore, the ability to enforce
land use plans was inhibited. This was especially true for the peri-urban areas, located
outside the jurisdiction of city boundaries, which made it almost impossible for local
authorities to regulate development in these areas.

Sixthly, in the absence of the proper urban regulatory plan, most development was being
undertaken without any consideration for pressures on the existing infrastructure
networks and environmental damages, waste water and solid waste, among others. While
speed of informal settlement growth had slowed down, they still continued without
adequate access to the essential infrastructure or social services. While the municipalities
were fully aware of the acute need to improve infrastructure, in the absence of an
appropriate property tax, linking the population increase to public finances, many
municipalities did not have adequate fiscal resources to cope with these phenomena.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Secure property rights along with an efficient and transparent land management regime
are fundamental for creating well-functioning land and property markets in Albania.
These in tum, provide incentives for local and international businesses, households and
individuals to invest in land and properties. Land titles are often used to access cheaper,
affordable credit. For most of the poor, land is the primary means for generating
livelihoods and the main vehicle for investing, accumulating wealth and transferring it
between generations. Furthermore, secure property rights, proper land management and
development control systems are enabling factors in improving investment climate, urban
management, natural resources management, and in promoting good governance.

Well-established land records and ownership rights constitute sine qua non conditions for
fiscal decentralization and municipal autonomy deriving from property tax revenues. This
revenue basis plays a crucial role in local governments' ability to provide essential public
services and infrastructure, necessary also for enabling business environment. Therefore,
the project focused on three main areas necessary to promote the development of efficient
land and property markets: (i) improving the security of tenure; (ii) strengthening local
government capacity to develop and enforce land use plans; and (iii) supporting the
development of property taxation function.




                                           2
The project aims assisted the government in addressing these three key areas: component
A focused on the security of property rights; component B concentrated on the
development of land use plans, and implementation of the property taxation system; the
support to infrastructure under component C was provided as an incentive to local
governments to implement the reform agenda, especially with respect to the preparation
and enforcement of land use plans and the collection of property taxes based on market
values. The project design was built on the foundations established in the last 15 years
and supported by various donors active in this area.

The project was designed to specifically contribute to pillar I of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS)1 covering the period of three years (FY 06-08), i.e., continued economic
growth through improving security of tenure and establishing a functioning land market.

In addition to unclear land tenure, the CAS also identified the uncontrolled urban growth,
inadequate public infrastructure, weak governance and public service delivery as among
the key threats to the sustainable development of Albania. The project aimed at
addressing these problems in a comprehensive manner through an operation tackling land
management issues, both at the central and local levels. The reform agenda introduced in
this project complemented and built on the reforms introduced by a Development Policy
Loan, which included a set of policy reforms aimed at promoting the development of land
and property markets.

Moreover, the project contributed to improvements in governance which was the main
cross-cutting objective and thematic focus of the entire Bank support program in Albania,
by applying key principles including: (i) setting up clear and monitorable service
standards for both land registration and issuance of building permits; (ii) seeking greater
transparency in the use of public resources at the local government level through
stakeholder participation; (iii) developing capacity to enable local governments to
effectively take on the decentralized urban land management responsibilities; and (iv)
increasing involvement of citizens to encourage improved urban management, including
preparation and enforcement of urban planning, and performance of public service
delivery.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The specific objective of the project was to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
land administration and urban management through enhancing tenure security, improving
urban planning, land management and development control, supporting property
valuation and taxation, and financing investments in urban infrastructure and services.

PDO Indicators:



1
  For details, see: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2008/05/9492598/albania-country-assistance-
strategy-progress-report-period-fy06-fy08



                                                 3
                   PDO Indicator                          Baseline Value        Target Value
Reduction in time to register property transaction            47 days              10 days
Reduction in time to receive a building permit               180 days             100 days
Increase the number of buildings in compliance with              0                  30%
building permit.
Increase Property Tax collection                      1,069M Lek / year    30% increase
Customer satisfaction of the IPRO is improved         Very Poor            Very Good
Intermediate Results (Component A)
Number of titles issued in urban and rural areas      0                    500,000
Intermediate Results (Component B)
Number of municipalities that complete the            0                    12
regulatory plans
Number of municipalities that implement market-       0                    12
based property tax system
Intermediate Results (Component C)
Number of municipalities that completed interim       0                    8
reforms and qualified for the first phase of
investments
Number of municipalities that completed interim       0                    5
reforms and qualified for the second phase of
investments
Number of cities that implement the new address       0                    11
system
Number of municipalities that receive training in     0                    12
procurement and financial management


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

At the end of 2010 Government of Albania requested World Bank assistance to
restructure the Land Administration and Management Project. The proposed changes,
approved in February 2011, scaled back and discontinued under-performing components
of the project. The property tax element of Component B was eliminated, as it became
evident during implementation that there was limited government priority to introduce
changes in the property valuation and taxation system, and the infrastructure investments
in Municipalities were severely reduced due to insufficient capacity within Municipalities
to support these investments. The planning activities under component B were curtailed
because of concerns following the experiences in the Coastal Zone Management Project
(see section 1.7). This then enabled Albania to respond to damages incurred from
intensive flooding in the northern region of the country during the periods January-March
2009 and November-December 2010. The changes included:

  •      PDOs were revised to: (i) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land
         administration and management through enhanced tenure security and improved
         urban planning; and (ii) rebuild physical assets and restore essential services in
         the flood affected areas;



                                            4
  •     A new component D (Emergency Response), following OP/BP 8.0 guidelines,
        was added in response to extreme flooding in the northern Prefectures of
        Shkodra and Lezhe;
  •     Project funds were reallocated. Component A remained intact. Component B
        was scaled back and closed out by March 31, 2011, and its remaining financing
        ($0.43 million equivalent) was reallocated to the new Component D. Component
        C was scaled back and approximately $12.21 million equivalent reallocated to
        Component D;
  •     Funds provided by PHRD and Sida (co-financiers) were used for existing
        activities and were not used for the new component D;
  •     The proposed restructuring extended the closing date through June 30, 2013;
  •     The restructuring also included cancellation of Covenants; and
  •     The Results Framework was revised in accordance with the reallocation of funds
        and adoption of new activities and is detailed below.

Revised PDO Indicators following restructuring:

             Project Outcome Indicators                Baseline Value       Target Value
Reduction in time to register property transaction   47 days             5 days
Customer satisfaction of the IPRO is improved        Very Poor           Very Good
Agricultural land and livestock protected by         0                   9,100 hectares
rehabilitated drainage pumps
Population protected by drainage pumps and / or      0                   150,000
served by rehabilitated water pumping stations in
Shkoder and Lezhe
Intermediate Results (Component A)
Number of titles issued in urban and rural areas     0                   400,000
Number of automated IPRO offices                     0                   10
Number of offices that receive training              0                   10
Intermediate Results (Component B)
Number of municipalities that complete the           0                   8
regulatory plans
Intermediate Results (Component C)
Number of municipalities that completed interim      0                   10
reforms and qualified for the first phase of
investments
Number of cities that implement the new address      0                   10
system
Number of municipalities that receive training in    0                   10
procurement and financial management
Investment in priority infrastructure and services   0                   4
completed
Intermediate Results (Component D)
Drainage Pumping Stations Rehabilitated in Shkoder   0                   3
and Lezhe
Water Supply Pumping Stations Rehabilitated in       0                   3


                                           5
            Project Outcome Indicators                   Baseline Value        Target Value
Shkoder Water Utility Service Area
Water testing equipment installed and in use         0                     1
(Shkoder)


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

Project implementation was streamlined within the existing structures of the relevant
government agencies. The Immovable Project Registration Office (IPRO), under the
Ministry of Justice, was responsible for implementing component A. The direct
beneficiaries were the property owners (increased security of tenure) and cadastre and
real estate professionals, such as surveyors and notaries, in those Cadastral Zones chosen
for project support. Similarly, IPRO staff in renovated offices benefited from improved
working conditions. Furthermore, academic institutions, the private sector and other civil
society groups were expected to benefit from the project.

The institutional and the legal frameworks that were improved in the course of the project
affected all persons and entities with rights to real property throughout the whole of
Albania, and the facilitators of the real estate market in both the public and private sectors.
These included the municipal authorities, urban planners, (mortgage) banks, real estate
agencies, real estate appraisers, private land surveying companies, lawyers and notaries
working on property cases. And of course, all prospective owners of property rights,
being the general public.

The Ministry of Public Works and Transport and Telecommunications (MPWTT),
through the Department of Urban Planning, coordinated the implementation of
component B. The direct beneficiaries were municipalities and the National Territorial
Planning Agency (NTPA). However, civil society and the business community also
benefited through better living environments derived from more participatory and
effective planning and development control.

The Ministry of Interior, through the Department of Local Government Finance,
coordinated the implementation of Component C. The direct beneficiaries were
municipalities. However, civil society and the business community also benefited from
improved living and business conditions and contributions to the cities’ economic
wellbeing.

The restructuring of the project created Component D and was carried out by the General
Directorate for Water Supply and Sanitation (GDWSS) at MPWTT and the Ministry of
Agriculture in partnership with the Local Water Authorities and Drainage Authorities
who were the direct beneficiaries. However, the primary target audience was 150,000
citizens and businesses at risk through flooding in the north of Albania.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had three components:


                                               6
Component A: Security of Tenure and Registration of Immovable Property Rights
The objective of component A was to improve service delivery, efficiency and
transparency of IPRO and complete most of the first registration of immovable property
rights. The component covered the entire country, but initially concentrated on urban and
peri-urban areas.

Component B: Urban Land Management
The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity of municipalities in urban
land management through the support to: (1) establish a market-responsive, participatory
urban planning and development control system via technical assistance to revisions in
urban planning law and development of regulatory plans for participating cities; and (2)
mobilize municipal revenues and correct property market distortions through property
valuation and taxation.

Component C: Municipal Infrastructure
The objective of this component was to enable proactive urban growth management and
enhance urban land market efficiency by prioritizing and implementing selected
infrastructure investments and services, in accordance with strategic investment plans.
The component also supported the implementation of the address system.

1.6 Revised Components

A new Component D was added during the project restructuring 1st February 2011:

Component D (Emergency Response) financed emergency reconstruction and minor
works and equipment supply to Shkoder and Lezhe Prefectures, which were affected by
intensive flooding during the period of January - March 2009, and again in November -
December 2010. The investments were reviewed by a Bank-financed Hydrologist and
determined to be critical and necessary to restore essential services without any
significant and irreversible adverse environmental or social impacts. The activities
included financing of drainage and water supply pumps that enabled the restoration of
vital physical assets, many of which were operating at 50% capacity or completely out of
commission due to damages incurred during the flooding. Supply of water testing
equipment for water utilities serving the affected areas was also financed to ensure water
supplied to residents in the affected areas was safe for consumption. Rehabilitation and
linkage of an existing storm water collection network in Shkoder City enabled the city to
withstand or mitigate the damages from future heavy rain and flood events. Technical
assistance was also provided under this component to develop a more comprehensive
view of the flooding problem and flood management, with a view towards meeting the
EU Water Framework Directive and Floods Directive over time. This support included
analysis of flood impacts, mapping, collection of critical data, and the provision of
technical support to improve flood management capacity and development of longer-term
flood protection strategies.

Component B was restricted to just the urban planning sub-component. The property
valuation and taxation sub-component was cancelled.


                                          7
Component C was reduced in scope during the project restructuring, with only four of the
proposed 10 phase 1 municipal infrastructure projects to be completed.

1.7 Other significant changes

Impact of Albania Coastal Zone Management and Clean-Up Project (ICZM): In
2009 issues with the ICZM project, funded by the Word Bank, triggered an update of the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework (LARF) to reflect the new guidelines on
the application of the Bank OP/BP 4.12 to land-use planning activities (although the
guidelines were produced after Component B was completed). The experience affected
the LAMP with certain components restricted and planned activities closed.

Property valuation and taxation project: a key part of component B was to mobilize
municipal revenues and correct property market distortions through property valuation
and taxation. An original legal covenant of the project was the preparation of a draft
property valuation law to parliament and the introduction of market value-based property
taxation. In the event, it became evident during implementation that there was limited
government priority to introduce changes in the property valuation and taxation system
and this sub-component of the project was never initiated. The removal of this sub-
component jeopardized achieving one of the key objectives of the project to raise
adequate fiscal resources within municipalities to provide essential infrastructure and
social services to an increasing population. However, at the close of the project, the
government of Albania had an interest in re-evaluating property taxes. Pilot work is
already underway in Tirana and Fier.

Co-Financing: Funds were provided to the project by PHRD (Japan) and Sida (Sweden).
PHRD primarily supported project preparation while Sida’s support focused on
component A. Funds were allocated to the project through a Bank Executed Trust fund
for supervision and Recipient Executed Trust fund for consulting services and technical
assistance.

Under the UN-FAO / World Bank Cooperative Agreement, the UN-FAO provided
technical inputs during project implementation on the information system design and
development and was responsible for the supervision and implementation support of
subcomponent A.1.2: Information Technology Development. This support directly
resulted in the ICT solution for IPRO being a success.

Time Extensions: Following restructuring of the project in January 2011, the project was
extended by a year until 30th June 2013. The project components A and D were further
extended by a year until 30th June 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                          8
Project Design: The project integrated a range of sub-components from the rural and
urban domains that led to a very ambitious and complex project. In reality, few synergies
could be achieved across sub-components, the capacity within Government to support
these ambitious projects was limited and the expected political priority for legislative
change around property tax did not materialize. However, the restructuring of the project
did retain the necessary focus on CAS priorities and allowed the project to be more
successful.

Risk Management: The overall project risk was substantial with the following risks
contributing to this classification:

      The assessment of the country financial management arrangements concluded that
       the public financial management had improved significantly during the previous
       few years in areas such as budgeting, internal control, internal and external audit,
       though from a relatively weak base. The fiduciary area was to have been
       underpinned by the use of the upgraded treasury financial management system.
       Despite this government commitment, the planned ongoing improvements on the
       treasury system did not materialize during the lifecycle of the project. This, along
       with lack of counterpart funds available during fiscal crises, led to late payments
       of contractors and problematic access to current financial information.

      A procurement capacity assessment for IPRO, MPWTT and MOI (as well as a
       sample municipality of Elbasan) was undertaken during project pre-appraisal and
       appraisal to determine whether the capacities of the implementing agencies were
       satisfactory and whether the existing procurement arrangements for the project
       were acceptable to the Bank. It was concluded that the implementing agencies had
       very limited staff and resources to address the needs of the implementation of the
       Bank-financed project. Therefore, it was recommended that in IPRO and MPWTT
       procurement experts were hired to assist them in the implementation of
       procurement activities and that procurement training was integrated into the
       project. Despite this assessment and corresponding mitigation, an underestimation
       on capacity led to ineffective procurement (and contract management) and caused
       the most delays in the project.

      Institutional arrangements in the land sector were fragmented: IPRO was
       responsible for the land registration and cadaster; ALUIZNI was responsible for
       the legalization of properties; and the Restitution Agency responsible for the
       restitution of land belonging to former owners; all subordinate to different
       Ministries. Institutional capacity had been identified as a significant risk and
       appropriate measures had been taken across the project to train and build capacity.
       In the event, Albanian government attention was fragmented and support and
       priority was placed on ALUIZNI, while IPRO received less capacity building
       leading to reduced resources to support first registrations.

Learning from Previous Projects: Since the 1990s, a number of major land
administration projects had been completed across Albania. This included the first
registration projects supported by USAID, EU and OSCE. These projects had developed


                                          9
robust procedures for capturing and quality assuring land rights information. The Bank
had recommended that these procedures should be adopted within the design and
implementation of the LAMP project. However, this was not the case and IPRO modified
these previous procedures without any challenge from the Bank. Importantly, this
included removing responsibility for sporadic registrations from the first registration
contracts. Sporadic registrations were subsequently re-integrated into the third and final
first registration contracts. It was not until the supervision team realized that IPRO were
not undertaking adequate control that a separate quality control contract was put in place.

In future land projects, it will be important to check the quality of the land rights data
obtained from the previous USAID, EU and OSCE projects and implement data quality
improvement programs, where necessary.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Overall Project: All components of the project suffered significant delays at the early
stages of implementation. Component A took two years to procure an ICT solution and
then cancelled the tender and opted for an in-house development. Component B
experienced over 18 months of delays in hiring consultants to design the Regulatory
Plans for Municipalities and the underpinning planning law was only enacted after the
completion of the Regulatory Plans. The valuation and property tax activities of
Component B had not been approved or activated by the government. Component C had
difficulties hiring staff and lack of capacity within the municipalities delayed the
preparation of phase 1 infrastructure investment proposals that came so late that the sub-
component was nearly completely cancelled. The overall project was problematic from
the start.

By the time of the mid-term review mission in April 2009 less than 17% of project
financing had been disbursed and it was clear that the development objectives and
outcome targets were no longer feasible. After an initial request from the government, it
was agreed by all parties to conduct a first order restructuring of the project. This
included:
   •     Project A remained intact;
   •     Component B was closed in 31 March 2011 following the successful
         completion of eight Regulatory Plans for municipalities. The property valuation
         and taxation sub-component was abandoned;
   •     Component C was significantly reduced to just include the completion of four
         phase 1 municipal infrastructure projects. Addressing and signage solutions for
         10 cities were retained;
   •     A new component D (Emergency Response), following OP/BP 8.0 guidelines,
         was added in response to extreme flooding in the northern Prefectures of
         Shkoder and Lezhe. Project funds were reallocated to Component D from



                                             10
         Component B ($0.43 million equivalent) and Component C ($12.21 million
         equivalent).

Despite initial implementation problems and early delays, the result of the project
restructuring better calibrated the project to the evolving situation on the ground, aligned
it with political priorities and support and with project extensions, and was eventually
successful in delivering most of the revised PDOs across all four components.

Component A: Security of Tenure and Registration of Immovable Property Rights

Summary: The early stages of this Component were severely delayed due to limited
         capacity and inefficiencies in project and contract management. However,
         interventions to introduce external quality assurance supervision of
         registration data, improve coordination amongst the District Offices, IPRO
         and the contractors; hire new staff at District Offices and simplify roles of
         the District Offices led to improved performance during the last 18 months
         of the project. The target of 400,000 first registrations was eventually
         missed by 22% at the end of the project, 30th June 2014 and by 11% at the
         end of 2014. However, 427,000 properties from work under the project
         contracts will have been completed early in 2015.

The capture of first registration information for 145 cadastral zones involving an
estimated 440,000 properties was contracted out to one Albanian company and three
international companies. The contract with the Albanian company for a pilot cadastral
zone was terminated. The other three contracts were highly problematic due to poor
contract and project management by IPRO, overly complex processes and insufficient
capacity at the IPRO District Offices to support the contractors. Efficiencies in first
registrations were only obtained towards the end of the project.

A key early intervention in Component A was the contracting of a Supervisor to support
the independent quality control of the first registration data being submitted by the three
contractors capturing first registrations in the field. Until this change, the first registration
project had been at risk due to: lack of IPRO support; ineffective project management;
poor quality of contractor staff; and contracts that did not clearly define responsibilities
and criteria for sign off. This intervention helped to clarify quality control procedures and
accelerate the sign off procedure.

At the end of 2011 despite significant improvements in the first registration work in
Component A, supported by stronger Bank team support for Component A, overall
progress was disappointingly slow with the IPRO and contractors performing very
poorly; only around 20,000 titles had been registered out of an agreed 400,000 titles at
this time. Due to this lack of progress, the World Bank discussed termination of
Component A with country counterparts. Ultimately, the Government supported the
IPRO component of the project and created a new high-level task force and working
group to monitor progress. This oversight helped to re-focus IPRO, at least in the short
term, to accelerate their first registration activities.



                                             11
IPRO capacity to support both their day-to-day operations and the World Bank project
has been a key limiting factor in the project. This was exacerbated by the disruption of
political appointments and occasions when significant portions of IPRO staff were
replaced. Training and capacity building have been an integral part of component A’s
design and an external company was hired to deliver the training program. Unfortunately,
IPRO did not fully incorporate training into its corporate HR management approach and
capacity remains weak, jeopardizing the sustainability of some of the improvements that
IPRO have achieved under the project.

After several attempts over two years to procure a software development company to
implement the ICT solution for IPRO, the government decided to build and use an in-
house software development team. This turned out to be a very successful, flexible and
cost-effective approach that delivered an effective solution for all 35 IPRO District
Offices to maintain data digitally through front and back office functionalities and
scanned archives. The IPRO project team also established a digital archive for 11 of these
District Offices. This included scanning all the old documents and all incoming
documents. This was fundamental to speeding up the transaction times through a
reduction in search times. Information services for notaries, ALUIZNI and Commission
for Restitution and Compensation have been in use since 2013 and citizen services will
be introduced in 2014. The Bank, with invaluable assistance from UN-FAO in quality
assurance, provided significant support in guiding IPRO through the design and
implementation of the ICT solution. The ICT system developed is fully centralized and
will be a key register within the new “one-stop-shop” citizen centric services program
under development by the government, which is aimed at providing multiple government
services efficiently and with transparency. The IPRO system is one of very few that are
ready to be integrated in the citizen centric services program and the high level
importance of the new program will help ensure that the system developed in IPRO is
maintained and updated.

In 2013 IPRO became a self-financing organization – this had originally been a legal
covenant associated with the project. This new status requires IPRO to transform itself
into a customer-focused business with a robust business plan. Fortunately, SIDA
provided help through its Landmateriet (Swedish National Mapping and Cadastral
Agency) to formulate the strategic business plan and continue to provide advice and
support at the time of writing.

In addition, the appointment of a new Chief Registrar at IPRO in October 2013 resulted
in a number of improvements to the project: improved coordination amongst the District
Offices, IPRO and the contractors; new staff hired at District Offices; and simplified roles
of the District Offices. This resulted in an acceleration of the first registration process,
delivering 160,000 registrations in nine months.

Component B: Urban Land Management




                                          12
Summary: The property valuation and taxation elements of this Component were
         removed at project restructuring and the Component successfully delivered
         regulatory plans for eight Municipalities. However, scope restrictions and
         delays were encountered due to complications in another project regarding
         land acquisition and resettlement framework.

The scope of this Component was considerably reduced through the removal of property
valuation and taxation elements. However, regulatory plans and associated capacity
building were successfully implemented through a highly participatory methodology in
eight municipalities. Other Municipalities are using the methodology across Albania.

In 2009 issues with the Albania Coastal Zone Management and Clean-Up Project (ICZM)
project, funded by the World Bank, posed a project suspension threat and this incident
was influential in restricting the LAMP project’s scope in planning activities and closing
further planning related activities within the project during project restructuring.

Component C: Municipal Infrastructure

Summary: The original ambitious scope of investing in major infrastructure and service
         projects across 10 Municipalities was reduced on project restructuring to
         four smaller projects, with substantially reduced benefits, due to lack of
         local capacity to implement these types of projects. However, the
         Component did successfully deliver addressing and signage solutions for 13
         Municipalities and provide initial training for procurement and financial
         management.

At the time of project restructuring in February 2010 it was decided to significantly
reduce the scope of this component and transfer the remaining funds to component D.
The remaining four municipalities’ phase 1 infrastructure projects and addressing and
signage projects in 13 cities were completed by the end of 2011. A further eight cities
would have been included in the addressing and signage project, but the procurement was
abandoned due to the late delivery of bid documents.

Procurement and financial management training for Municipalities was not effective as
several training courses in ‘capital investment planning’ and ‘capacity building’ were not
delivered – in some cases due to lack of municipal staff availability.

Component D: Emergency Response

Summary: Following significant floods in the north of Albania, this new Component,
         which was put in place during project restructuring, successfully
         implemented eight drainage and water supply pumping stations delivering
         benefits to 150,000 citizens. However, significant delays were caused by
         procurement problems despite the emergency context.




                                         13
A civil emergency taskforce was established with Deputy Prime Minister in charge.
Drainage and Water Authorities submitted proposals for projects (preliminary designs
and budgets provided by consultants) and the taskforce decided on a list of projects to be
included in Component D. The designs of the selected projects were reviewed and 8 sub-
projects were created that were then split into 10 contracts. The most problematic activity
within the project was procurement. The smaller contracts (< US$1M) were carried out
under emergency procurement rules and they were fast and successful. However, larger
contracts were significantly delayed in procurement. The Albanian government
procurement rules, enforced through the State Supreme Audit, ensure that the lowest
bidder wins. This sometimes resulted in weak companies winning. For example, a
company bid US$2M for a pumping station contract with an estimated budget of
US$3.6M and the cost of the pumps directly from the supplier was greater than that
quoted by the bidder. The Bank intervened and proposed that the evaluation team visit
the company in Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to carry out further due
diligence.

Ironically, one of the projects was delayed due to citizens claiming that the land used to
support the project was private rather than public. Prior to the project being initiated, the
PIU checked the ownership status with the local mayor and the IPRO and it was
confirmed to be public. However, citizens subsequently claimed ownership through the
courts. The implementing agency using government funds bought the land from the
owners rather than using expropriation that would have been a longer process. This
problem highlighted the lack of joined up information across the three land agencies:
IPRO, ALUIZNI and the Commission for Restitution and Compensation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: The Project Restructuring Agreement included four PDO outcome indicators and
eleven intermediate outcome indicators (to reflect the wide scope of the project).
However, the indicators were clearly expressed, the LRUs were successful in data
collection and the indicators provided a quantifiable broad basis for assessing progress
towards meeting the PDO. The project ISRs effectively recorded progress of these
indicators.

Although a baseline IPRO customer satisfaction survey was carried out, one had already
been carried out by a UK-DFID funded project in 2006 prior to the start of the project in
2007.

Implementation: Due to weak project management within IPRO, the monitoring of
progress in first registrations under component A was not effective, with misinformation
being recorded in some ISRs, which was later corrected. This reflected the lack of an
effective Management Information System to monitor progress of the contractors and the
IPRO District Offices.

An external company was hired to provide quality assurance supervision of the first
registration information collected by the three contractors and the supervisor provided
valuable statistics on progress of first registrations.


                                           14
Further IPRO customer satisfaction surveys were completed in 2008, 2011 and 2014
prior to the closure of the project.

Under Component B, the monitoring of the quality of the Regulatory Plans was assured
through the highly participatory approach adopted. The Regulatory Plans were prepared
with the ownership of citizens and by the approval of the Mayors. This methodology has
been further endorsed by its adoption by other cities, e.g. Himara, in the preparation of
their Regulatory Plans.

As well as having a dedicated PIU, Component D also used contracted consultants to
perform contract management and supervise the contractors implementing the water and
drainage pumping stations. The contract managers provided adequate (although slow)
information on implementation progress.

Utilization: Certain elements of the monitoring reports were critically important to
decision making and allocating project resources to reach targets. In particular, data on
progress on first registrations triggered interventions to gain support from the Prime
Minister for the project, to contract a quality assurance contractor and to convince IPRO
management to provide more support for their District Offices.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social and Environmental: Long-standing legislation that allows for demolition of
illegally constructed buildings poses risks for urban planning, investment sub-projects
and related social safeguards for affected communities. Enhanced measures were put in
place through legal documents that required agencies to provide ex ante confirmation that
EMP and relevant social safeguards were in place at the contracting stage.

Environmental Safeguards: The LAMP project was classified as an FI (financial
intermediary) category, where specific locations and activities were not known at the
time of project appraisal. An Environmental Policy Framework (EPF) document was
prepared in 2006 and was subsequently revised in 2009. The component D of the LAMP
project was added on following a project restructuring, and under the umbrella of the
overall project EPF, site-specific Environmental Management Plans were made for the
draining/pumping stations in Tale, Cas, Velipoje / Viluni. Environmental Management
Plans for the Dobrac and Bahcallek drinking water pumping stations were also prepared
along with an EMP for the Shkodra city runoff and drainage management works and the
Trush drinking water station. Adequate environmental supervision of sites was performed.

Fiduciary Compliance: The Implementing Agencies gained experience in implementing
Bank activities and were familiar with and were generally compliant with Bank fiduciary
requirements. Lack of experience and interference in procurements led to significant
project delays. The Treasury system in the Ministry of Finance used by the project was
adequate, but was not effective in delivering up-to-date financial information to the
project and was partly responsible, along with unavailable counterpart funding during
fiscal crises, for late payment of contractors. The planned upgrade to the Treasury system


                                         15
did not take place until after the project terminated. There are significant exchange rate
losses reported in the project’s designated accounts (for LAMP components A and C),
that in the Bank records are shown as undocumented advance, and therefore need to be
refunded to the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Follow on engagement on future projects preparation with the government is under way
due to strong government priority for the land sector.

Component A will have created first registrations for around 10% of the parcels in
Albania and IPRO has funding to complete the first registrations within the cadastral
zones of the project. Registration of the parcels outside the project area, except
mountainous regions, was previously completed through EU, OSCE and USAID projects.
The World Bank is currently working with the EU to design a project to check the quality
of the land rights data obtained from the previous projects and implement data quality
improvement programs, where necessary. A new Environmental Services project, co-
financed by the Bank loan and GEF grant, is planned to cover the significant number of
missing first registrations for communal forests and pastures.

The financial sustainability of IPRO under its self-financing status will be fundamentally
guided by IPRO’s ongoing strategic business plan process, which was developed with the
support of Sida. This will set IPRO up as a successful self-financing agency with annual
surpluses to reinvest in their operations.

The Regulatory plans produced under Component B are being used to derive Detailed
Plans to support development control. The Government of Albania has initiated the
process of preparation of the General National Territorial Plan (GNTP) with the
assistance of the USAID’s Planning and Local Governance Project (PLGP). Planning is a
key policy item for the Government of Albania and Component B has helped to build this
momentum.

Component C produced address databases for 13 cities. These databases have not been
maintained due to lack of capacity within the municipalities. However, the Ministry of
Interior is initiating a nationwide project to integrate addresses with the Civil Register.
This project will use the address databases produced by Component C and ensure their
maintenance.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The issues addressed by the project remain highly relevant both in the country context, as
well as in the Bank’s program. The land issue is one of six sectors that the new
government have on their agenda for key areas to be addressed in their first term. The six
sectors are: Water, Competitiveness, Energy, Citizen centric services (i.e. good


                                           16
government and anti-corruption), land (especially access to land) and structural reforms
(of government). Land is also prominent in the current Systematic Country Diagnostic and
Country Partnership Framework that are currently in preparation.

Land issues are currently restricting the economic development of Albania. Secure
property rights along with an efficient and transparent land management regime are
fundamental for creating well-functioning land and property markets in Albania. These in
turn, provide incentives for local and international businesses, households and individuals
to invest in land and properties. Land titles are often used to access cheaper, affordable
credit. For most of the poor, land is the primary means for generating livelihood and the
main vehicle for investing, accumulating wealth and transferring it between generations.
Furthermore, secure property rights, proper land management and development control
system are enabling factors in improving investment climate, urban management, natural
resources management, and in promoting good governance. Improving land
administration through a reliable and efficient registration and cadastral system was a high
priority for the GOA well before the start of the LAMP Project and remains so at
completion. The LAMP project has strengthened the land administration institution,
IPRO, and although only creating around 357,383 first registrations from a target of
400,000, the institution is now well placed to continue to enhance security of tenure
across Albania. However, this will require a significant effort to improve the quality of
the existing land records in cadastral zones outside the scope of this project.

Albania has been plagued by informal development, especially in urban and peri-urban
areas, through the lack of adequate spatial planning and development control. The project
has successfully created regulatory plans for eight cities across Albania. These have
officially been adopted and are being actively used in development control. The
participatory methodology and associated user guides are now being used in other cities
to develop their Regulatory Plans.

Albanian cities need infrastructure improvements to enable proactive urban growth
management and enhance land market efficiency. Only one of the four Phase 1 municipal
infrastructure projects implemented under the LAMP project did potentially trigger these
benefits – this was the building of a market. 13 municipalities implemented address
databases and improved signage to support better navigation and service delivery and
eventually the administration of property taxation.

The northern area of Albania around Shkodra is vulnerable to severe flooding. Flooding
in 2009 and 2010 triggered the emergency flood control component of this project. The
project implementing agency has successfully installed and improved existing drainage
pumping stations to alleviate flooding and water pumping stations to safeguard water
supplies. Around 150,000 citizens have benefited and over 9,100 hectares of agricultural
land protected.

The design of the project and the sequencing of interventions were problematic at the
start. The original scope of the project was too diverse and ambitious and it was therefore
very difficult to manage all components effectively across so many different sectoral



                                          17
areas. Component A alone would have been a significantly challenging project to manage
in the context of Albania’s development cycle. Several original project objectives, such
as property taxation, were not aligned with the political priorities and were eliminated
during project restructuring. Project restructuring and a dedicated team leader for
Component A was helpful in resolving these issues

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

There were two dimensions to the PDOs: (i) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
land administration and management through enhanced tenure security and improved
urban planning; and (ii) rebuild physical assets and restore essential services in the
flood affected areas. The final Project Outcome Indicators are contained in Table 1.

The first objective was achieved through building improved land registration and cadastral
services and adjusting the associated regulations to support digital approaches to modern
land administration. Underpinning this change was a new ICT solution designed to
improve efficiencies within IPRO, but just as importantly to provide remote access to the
land records and associated archive and improve transparency. This transformation has
been confirmed through the following evidence:

      The average transaction time for a selling transaction has been reduced from 37
       days to an average of 6 days for the five largest offices that have been
       computerized (PDO 1);
      User satisfaction surveys indicate that the satisfaction of IPRO customers has
       risen from very poor to average at the end of the project. This will continue to
       improve as offices are refurbished, capacity is built and sustained, and citizen e-
       services are introduced.

Challenges remain in building and retaining capacity of the organization (especially
IPRO District Offices), ability to effectively manage large contracts for land registration
and cadastral data capture projects, increasing sustainability of the ICT solution, and the
need to resource a major data quality assessment and improvement program.

The sustainability of the land registration and cadastral agency, IPRO, is greater since it
is now a self-financing organization with a corresponding business strategic plan.

The land management objective of the project has been influential at developing a
participatory methodology to develop Regulatory Plans that were successfully used in
eight cities; the Municipal Councils and the National Territorial Council have adopted
seven. Two further cities have adopted the methodology to create their Regulatory Plans.
Capacity building of municipal staff was successful as highlighted by their updating of
the Regulatory Plans following the late enactment of the Territorial Planning Law.
Capacity building in the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) was less
successful with only one city sustaining GIS capabilities. On-going support of the
municipalities is currently being provided by NTPA and USAID’s PLGP project. This




                                          18
project is providing support to develop a National Plan for Albania and establish e-
services around a Planning Portal.

The municipal infrastructure project sub-component successfully implemented four phase
1 municipal infrastructure projects to stimulate economic development. In addition, 13
municipalities implemented address databases and improved signage to support better
navigation and service delivery.

The Emergency Response project successfully constructed 4 water pumping stations
and 3 drainage pumping stations in Shkoder and Lezhe Prefectures since they were last
affected by flooding in 2009 and 2010. Water testing equipment was not installed at
Shkoder and one drainage pumping station has not been installed within the project duration
due to procurement and pump delivery delays. However, the efficiency of the existing station
has been considerably improved in the interim, lowering the risk of flooding. Government has
agreed to fund and install new pumps for this drainage pumping station before the end of 2014
(weather permitting). Although most the objectives of this project component have been
achieved, it should be highlighted that several of these emergency solutions were completed
towards the end of the project; over three years after the last major flood. It has been fortunate
that major floods have not occurred in the intervening years. These project delays centered on
government procurement issues despite the emergency nature of the project.

The table below details the values of Project Outcome Indicators at: baseline, target, end of
project June 30, 2014 and last day of contract payment October 31, 2014.

It should be emphasized that the achievements and influence of the project have extended
beyond simply delivering against the PDOs. A strong and persistent engagement with
government throughout the project has resulted in effective government support for the land
sector. This has stimulated interest in property tax, previously dropped during project
restructuring, and the government is currently re-evaluating property taxes.

          Project Outcome Indicators          Baseline       Target         Final         Final
                                               Value         Value          Value         Value
                                                                          6/30/2014    10/31/20142
Reduction in time to register property        47 days     5 days         6 days        6 days
transaction
Customer satisfaction of the IPRO is          Very Poor   Very Good      Average       Average
improved
Agricultural land and livestock protected     0           9,100          9,100         9,100
by rehabilitated drainage pumps                           hectares       hectares      hectares
Population protected by drainage pumps        0           150,000        150,000       150,000
and / or served by rehabilitated water
pumping stations in Shkoder and Lezhe
Intermediate Results (Component A)



2
    Last day for contract payments.



                                             19
      Project Outcome Indicators              Baseline       Target      Final        Final
                                               Value         Value       Value        Value
                                                                       6/30/2014   10/31/20142
Number of titles issued in urban and rural    0          400,000      314,155      357,383
areas
Number of automated IPRO offices              0          10           17           35
Number of offices that receive training       0          10           17           35
Intermediate Results (Component B)
Number of municipalities that complete the    0          8            8            8
regulatory plans
Intermediate Results (Component C)
Number of municipalities that completed       0          10           10           10
interim reforms and qualified for the first
phase of investments
Number of cities that implement the new       0          10           13           13
address system
Number of municipalities that receive         0          10           10           10
training in procurement and financial
management
Investment in priority infrastructure and     0          4            4            4
services completed
Intermediate Results (Component D)
Drainage Pumping Stations Rehabilitated       0          3            3            3
in Shkoder and Lezhe
Water Supply Pumping Stations                 0          3            3            3
Rehabilitated in Shkoder Water Utility
Service Area
Water testing equipment installed and in      0          1            0            0
use (Shkoder)
Table 1: Project Outcome Indicators

3.3 Efficiency

Service Delivery

Over the course of the project, IPRO’s service delivery time has improved tremendously.
Registering a property took 47 days (baseline) at the beginning of the project and now it
takes only 6 days. This is an 87 percent reduction in time to register a property
transaction. Even though the project target of 5 days (or 89% reduction against baseline)
was missed, the 6 days that it now takes to register a property in Albania is an impressive
result given the several problems that the project encountered. This achievement was also
recognized in the Doing Business 2015 (DB 2015) report in which Albania’s rank for
registering a property improved by 18 places and moved up from 136 in the previous
report to 118 in the DB 2015 report. The successful implementation of ALBSReP was
also recognized by the DB 2015 report, which noted that “Albania made transferring
property easier by establishing effective time limits and computerizing the records on




                                              20
immovable property.”3

Additionally, the cost to register a property has also gone down over the course of the
project. In 2006, the cost to register a property in Albania was 17.4% of its property value
and by 2014 the same cost has decreased to 9.9%4 of property value. Considering an
average property price of US$ 24,000 (LEK 2.4 million), the savings between the 2006
and 2014 costs are US$ 1,800 per property or a 43% decrease over the cost in 2006.

                                      Registration Cost as % of Property Value
             18.0%   17.4%
                              16.2%
             16.0%                       15.2%
                                                  14.4%
                                                                    13.9%
             14.0%                                         13.1%
                                                                             12.0%
             12.0%                                                                   11.4%

                                                                                             9.9%
             10.0%


              8.0%
                      2006     2007       2008     2009    2010     2011     2012    2013    2014



These significant improvements in service delivery have been passed on directly to the
customers, who now benefit from cost and time savings when they register a property.

Overall Project

Assuming a 10 percent discount rate, the resultant net present value (NPV) from the
aforementioned analysis is estimated at US$ 12.82 million and the internal rate of
return (IRR) is estimated at 22.9 percent.

It is important to note that the analysis presented in this annex is not directly comparable
with the analysis presented in the PAD and Restructuring Paper because those analyses
were limited. Component A analysis in the PAD looked only at the effects of property
market development but not at gains from productivity through the IT system
development or fiscal impact like increased property tax revenue through more
registrations and reduced spending due to IPRO’s self-financing structure. The
Component A analysis in the ICR is much broader and addresses these gaps from the
PAD. Similarly, the PAD did not have any quantitative analysis for Component B


3
  Doing Business 2015 Report, Albania, Page 40,
http://www.doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/albania/~/media/giawb/doing%20business/document
s/profiles/country/ALB.pdf?ver=2

4
    This figure includes non-IPRO costs (notaries etc.)



                                                      21
whereas this has been incorporated in the ICR analysis. Component C analysis presented
in the PAD has been successfully replicated in the ICR. Finally, the restructuring paper
(2011) did not attempt to quantify the benefits from Component D whereas this has been
done in the ICR.

Even though, the NPV and IRR figures presented in the PAD, restructuring paper, and
ICR are not comparable, the table below provides a summary of the analysis:

                                                             Restructuring
                                      PAD                                    ICR
                                                             Paper
    Net Present Value (US$ M) at      Comp. A: 18.29         Comp A: 5.99    All components: 12.82
    10% discount rate                 Comp. C: 7.27
                                      Comp. A: 23%           Comp A: 15%     All components: 22.9%
    Internal Rate of Return (%)
                                      Comp. C: 20%



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory (see Table 2 for Component ratings and project
restructuring weighting)

Component A, Security of Tenure and Registration of Immovable Property Rights, did
not quite meet all of its project outcome targets, despite an acceleration in performance
towards the last six months of the project. Average turnaround in selling transactions was
decreased to 6 days, narrowly missing the target of 5 days. This was mainly due to
capacity issues at the IPRO District Offices and the late installation of the ICT solutions
at these offices. The number of District Offices being automated was 35, exceeding the
target of 10, and the ICT solution included external services to key clients. Customer
satisfaction was average rather than very good in the 2014 survey; a decrease from good
in the 2012 survey. This decline in satisfaction was due to a high turnover in staff in the
June 2013 election and limited capacity building program. The first registration activities
missed the target by 11% (357,3835 compared to the target of 400,000 first registrations).
This was a disappointing result, but reflects: the complexity and variable quality of the
existing land rights evidence; poor project and contract management; ineffective quality
control procedures; and capacity issues across the IPRO organization. Towards the end of
the project the contractors and IPRO were much more efficient at capturing, quality
assurance and registering property rights. An additional 45,000 properties are expected to
be registered by the end of December 2014, taking the final project registration number to
402,383 properties. This is highly likely since the bulk of the legal and field work has
been completed for the outstanding registrations. However, IPRO and District Office
staff will have to quality control the first registration information since the Supervisor’s
contract was terminated at the end of the project on the 30th June 2014. The Government
of Albania allocated a budget to support the first registration completion. Significant
success was achieved in implementing a world class ICT solution across all IPRO offices,


5
    As of October 31, 2014, the last day of contract payments.



                                                    22
delivering e-government services to customers, creating a software development resource
within IPRO and gaining self-funding status. This Component has contributed
significantly to strengthening of tenure security in Albania, an important objective of the
project, through introducing robust procedures for first and sporadic registration, a more
efficient IPRO institution, improved customer services and a world class ICT solution to
manage land administration.

Component B, Urban Land Management, was successful after restructuring in reaching
the targets in creating Regulatory Plans for eight cities across Albania and producing a
participatory methodology that is being adopted across further municipalities. This was
underpinned by a new Territorial Planning Law that was enacted after the Regulatory
Plans were created and triggered maintenance work on the Regulatory Plans. Another
new Territorial Planning Law was introduced by September 2014 superseding the law
introduced by this project.

Component C, Municipal Infrastructure, successfully implemented four phase 1
municipal infrastructure projects to stimulate economic development. This was a much
smaller set of projects than originally designed in the PAD and had significantly less
economic and social impact in these cities. In addition, 13 municipalities implemented
address databases and improved signage to support better navigation and service delivery.
However, the major valuation and taxation sub-component was cancelled jeopardizing
the original, underlying objectives of the overall LAMP project. However, Component C
did meet the targets after restructuring.

Component D, Emergency Response, did implement the required water and drainage
infrastructure except for one drainage pumping station. However, the delays of two years
in implementing the solutions significantly exposed the local population to the risk of
flooding, although no adverse events materialized before project completion..

Table 2: Component Ratings and Project Evaluation Weighting due to Restructuring

Performance at project closure (30th June 2014) using original PDOs:

                                        Comp A        Comp B           Comp C      Comp D
Relevance                                 5             4                 4          -
Efficacy                                  3             2                3           -
Efficiency                                3             3                3           -
Component Totals                         3.67           3               3.33         -
Weight                                     1            1                 1          -
Weighted Component Totals                3.67           3               3.33         -

Project Weighted Average                   3.33

Performance at project closure (30th June 2014) using revised PDOs:

                                        Comp A        Comp B           Comp C      Comp D
Relevance                                 5             4                4           5
Efficacy                                  4             5                4           3
Efficiency                                4             3                3           4


                                            23
Component Totals                                 4.33                 4             3.67         4
Weight                                            0.4                0.2             0.2        0.2
Weighted Component Totals                        1.73                0.8            0.73        0.8

Project Weighted Average                         4.06

                                        Against              Against             Overall      Comments
                                     Original PDOs           Revised
                                                              PDOs
1.   Rating                         Moderately             Moderately        -
                                    Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory
2.   Rating Value                        3.33                   4.06

3.   Weight (% disbursed                  27%                  73%
     before/after PDO change)
4.   Weighted value (2 x 3)                0.9                 2.96          3.86

5.   Final Rating (Rounded)                 -                    -           Moderately     Calculated per
                                                                             Satisfactory   World Bank ICR
                                                                                            Guidelines




3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Gender disaggregated data has been generated from the new IT system. The following
table contains data only for percentages of those owners (female and male together) that
have valid gender information. Those without valid gender information were excluded
from this analysis. As detailed in the table, there are a little less than 2x more male
owners than female owners of properties.

Total number of female owners                                              27,741    38%
Total number of male owners                                                46,014    62%
Total number of owners with valid gender information                       73,755

Table 3: Overall Gender Analysis of Ownership in Albania

A more detailed gender analysis can be found at:
http://www.fao.org/fileadmin/user_upload/nr/land_tenure/Genders_Report_WB.pdf and a leaflet describing
“Land and Gender Improving Data Availability and Use in The Western Balkans can be found at
http://www.fao.org/fileadmin/user_upload/nr/land_tenure/E_LandAndGender_Leaflet_Web.pdf

No social and poverty impact assessments were completed for the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

A significant transition for the IPRO organization during the course of the project was its
status change to a self-financing organization in 2013. This requires new business skills


                                                  24
and these are being developed with Sida in the creation of a new strategic business plan
for the organization that was signed off by the IPRO Board in May 2014. Sida is
continuing their support of IPRO until March 2015, e.g. in the activities of costing
transactions to support fee calculation.

A key artifact from component A was the creation of the IPRO IT Directorate structure. It
includes a Software Development Unit and a Maintenance and Support Unit that has been
strengthened with two additional system and DB administrators. This IT Directorate is a
key asset for the organization in delivering value for money and quality services to the
public.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Land Administration e-services Provision: The ICT project component within IPRO
developed an e-service layer, which was not planned in the project. This provides
electronic access to textual and map based land records and also the scanned archive.
New e-services can be implemented in less than a month, including the definition of the
new services, signing MoU, testing the services and launching them officially. e-Services
to notaries, ALUIZNI (agency for legalization) and the commission for restitution and
compensation have been provided for more than a year. This facility reduces the
overheads on the IPRO District Offices and significantly improves the user experience
and satisfaction.

The ICT solution has adopted national standards for personal register, companies register
and address register and is ready to integrate with these registers through the government
e-gateway.

Land Administration Digital Archive: All the paper records managed by the IPRO 11
large District offices involved in computerization in Component A have had their paper
records scanned and indexed to provide an on-line archive services. Digital archive has
been fully integrated within the IT system and both old and the incoming documents are
digitally available for the local offices and professional external users. This is also
helping to reduce transaction times.

On-line Training Modules: Although the level of traditional forms of training across
Component A was inadequate, a series of on-line training modules were developed and
integrated into the ALBSReP solution to more effectively support training at the District
Offices. Support was further enhanced through an on-line help desk.

Software development Unit: This unit has been established under the IT Directorate and
continues to operate after the project closure.

Customer Oriented IPRO Organization: The new Chief Registrar of IPRO installed in
October 2013 made sweeping changes to the public face of IPRO by improving services
and anti-corruption measures through the redesign and refurbishment of front offices.




                                         25
Wider Land Strategy: The Ministry of Justice instigated the development of an
integrated land management strategy (Cross Cutting Strategy for Reform in the Field of
Property Rights) that covers National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI), gender, forest
and pasture lands program, integration with urban planning, tourism and land policy for
restitution and legalization. This policy provides an excellent framework for all land
rights related activities in Albania.

Alignment with Open Government Services: A new government agency (AKSHI;
Albanian National Agency for Information) under the Ministry of Innovation and ICT is
responsible for e-government initiatives. IPRO is complying with AKSHI and is using
their business continuity center, plans to use their future disaster recovery center, will
integrate with their e-gov gateway, comply with open data policy and will provide data to
create a property register as AKSHI builds a set of key national registers, e.g. company
register, license register, taxes register and civil register. The government is also pursuing
a one-stop-shop agenda similar to that implemented in Georgia. This will lead to the
alignment and integration of e-services across the Albanian public sector. Land
registration and cadastral information will form a key register supporting these e-services.

Data Quality Improvement: In order to support work on data quality improvement,
especially for the 80% of properties in Albania that have already completed first
registration, the Bank team received an ECA Region FY14 Innovation Grant to test the
use of new technology, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), to produce faster and more
cost effective spatial data, including new orthophotos. The tests were carried out in
Albania in December 2013 with the support of the IPRO. Albania is one of the first
countries where this technology was tested for cadastral mapping purposes, with positive
results that were presented at the annual World Bank Land and Poverty conference in
March 2014. The findings will be used in the definition of the proposed Land
Administration Data Improvement (LADI) project to be funded by the EC to support
developing and testing detailed procedures for data improvement.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Three IPRO customer satisfaction surveys were conducted over the lifecycle of
Component A of the project and these indicated an improvement from very poor to good
in 2012 and then in 2014 a decline to average. Compared to the 2012 survey, there has
been a decrease in the number of respondents that think, “procedures are made easier”.
Likewise, the number of respondents indicating that “Professional attitude of the staff
has improved.” has decreased in the 2014 survey, this also due to the worsening of
perceptions about “staff capacity on service desks”, which is one of the indicators that
influences customer satisfaction.

The factors behind the decrease in the rating of customer satisfaction indicator include:

      The very large staff turnover of more than 50%, in the months prior to the survey.
       The newly hired employees did not possess sufficient experience or did not have
       sufficient/necessary technical knowledge, which could have led to lower



                                           26
        efficiency. With proper training this problem could be mitigated and the new staff
        can improve their efficiency/performance.
       The increase of more than double in service fees was not based on a cost-based
        analysis. In addition, the increase in fees was not accompanied with an increase in
        service delivery quality or new investments.
       The introduction of the new IT system should have been accompanied with staff
        training, including the newly hired staff, in a timely manner.


The customer satisfaction survey report recommended improvements in the following
areas:

       Improving Quality of Service: Time spent at IPRO service desks to obtain a
        service needs to be reduced. For this reason it is recommended an increase in the
        number of service desks that have direct contact with clients as well as proper
        training of recently hired staff.
       Access to Information and Public Awareness: To mitigate long lines and
        waiting hours IPRO should try to provide comparable information through other
        sources such as for example: media, online portal of IPRO etc.
       Increase of System Efficiency: The further expansion of electronic services
        should continue and the implementation of the automatic registration system
        should be extended to all local IPROs, which would bring considerable
        improvement in timeframes of transactions finalizations.

The Bank prepared and published a video 6 highlighting the success of the IPRO IT
system, which includes an interview of the President of the Albanian Chamber of
Notaries.

No social survey of citizens was conducted for component D.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is rated Moderately High. The risks are threefold:
financial, institutional and legal.

Corruption in Albania still remains a serious and widespread problem, and the associated
ongoing risk is considered substantial. Therefore, adequate mitigation measures need to
be incorporated into the governance of land related government activities. This should
include:

       enhanced disclosure and transparency of project-related information;
       enhanced use of financial reporting, internal and external audit;



6
  Albania - Property Rights Just a ‘Click’ Away, June 24, 2014:
http://www.worldbank.org/en/results/2014/06/24/albania-property-rights-just-a-click-away


                                                27
       operational audit;
       appropriate complaints handling mechanism.

Despite efforts to build capacity in local and central government institutions throughout
the project, capacity remains weak especially in the areas of procurement management,
contract management and project management. Lack of capacity is compounded by the
impact of general elections where the significant portions of staff are replaced within
institutions. This leaves a completely changed organization with little corporate
knowledge retained. The current fragmentation of land institutes and the lack of political
independence in appointing corresponding senior management reduces overall effective
governance of the land sector.

IPRO with guidance from UN-FAO chose to build the ICT solution for IPRO using in-
house resources and consultants supported by an international quality assurance expert
and a senior solution architect. This has been very successful. An IT Directorate has been
formed within IPRO for the maintenance and on-going enhancements of the ICT solution.
The sustainability of the software development team will have to be carefully monitored
since there is high market competition for good software developers. This risk was
highlighted in August 2014 when the IT contractor’s contract was terminated due to non-
performance and two of the core software developers left the team for better private
sector opportunities.

The restitution / compensation to former landowners is currently at stalemate within
Albania due to the current law which is not affordable to implement. It is critical to
resolve the claims by former owners in order to have secure ownership rights, especially
in coastal zones. While this aspect was not supported under the project, failure of the
government to address this issue in the medium to long term will have negative effects on
the security of property rights, especially in areas still claimed by former land owners.
This issue potentially affects the security of tenure of all registers land owners in Albania
and will inhibit the land market and inward investments.

Land records have been captured through a number of projects since the 1990s, including
OSCE, EU, USAID and now this World Bank Project that has provided around 10%
coverage in digital form. Coverage of first registrations is nearing national coverage. Of
the total of 3,057 cadastral zones, 2,577 have first registrations. However, 2,042 of these
cadastral zones have no first registrations of forests and pastures7. This leaves around 480
cadastral zones, mostly in the mountainous regions, without registration. However, the
data quality of these older records varies considerably and in general is considered to be
very poor. Without a significant effort to improve the quality of the records and integrate
them into common IT systems then the quality and trust in land administration services
will be severely compromised.



7
  A new Environmental Services Project, co-financed by a Bank loan and a GEF grant, is planned to cover
first registration of communal forests and pastures in these cadastral zones.



                                                28
The project implemented major capital projects in flood protection schemes to the north
of Albania. The suppliers were not awarded maintenance contracts, but were required to
provide manuals, training and limited spares. The government custodians of the assets,
Ministry of Agriculture and MPWTT, have assumed responsibility for the maintenance of
the assets following the expiry of the warranty period. There was no clarity of budget
lines allocated for this maintenance and associated canal dredging. There are on-going
negotiations about the maintenance responsibility between the Ministry of Agriculture
(strategic infrastructure assets) and local government (the rest of the assets). This lack of
maintenance strategy leaves these assets at risk.

The overall risk to project sustainability reduced towards the end of the project as the
land issue became a priority agenda item for government. The land is one of the six
sectors that the new government have on their agenda for key areas to be addressed in
their first term. The risk around IPRO not being able to sustain the services has also been
reduced through their self-funding status and associated business plan, their increased
quality of services and the very effective ICT solution that underpins their services.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project design was overly complex in scope (basically three projects in one, four in
the original project design) making it extremely difficult to manage and focus. Although
the key risks were identified, insufficient due diligence was carried out to quantify these
key risks. For example:

      There was limited political support for introducing a property-based tax. This
       major component of the project was not initiated.
      Capacity within the Albanian public and private sectors to support the project
       components was lacking. Experience in the Albanian private sector to support
       first registration land contacts was insufficient. Experience of Local Government
       to identify, design and manage serious infrastructure projects was deficient.
      The project governance arrangements and ability of multi-stakeholders to manage
       projects within government were poor.
      Capacity to effectively manage complex contracts was lacking.
      Government procurement projects were problematic and involved interference
       and long delays.

Further insights into these key risks could potentially have helped to shape and scope the
project more effectively. However, over the lifecycle of the project the dynamic political
situation made Albania a very difficult country in which to plan major interventions. The
Bank is currently expanding its portfolio in Albania with larger and more complex


                                           29
projects. This is being achieved successfully through a better understanding of the
political economy.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision took place on a regular basis, providing appropriate and well-targeted
advice and observations. This was not straightforward given the diverse set of project
components; effectively it was supervising four projects. The aides memoire provided
evidence of regular supervision and professional advice given by the Bank’s experts
throughout the Project.

After the project restructuring the Bank significantly increased its support of the project
and directly helped IPRO more proactively manage component A in particular. This
certainly stopped the project from failing. Strong support and guidance was provided to
IPRO on the design and development of the new ICT solution.

The Bank also made several key interventions: notably, a senior government official was
asked to intercede with IPRO when the organization was not performing; and a contractor
was hired to independently quality assure the first registration information being received
from the contractors when the contracts were in jeopardy.

The Bank’s supervision of procurements was proactive, but project implementation
remained difficult. Several procurement processes were delayed over a number of years
and decision-making was delayed. Potentially, better project governance would have
been helpful.

Fiduciary and safeguards policies were well managed and compliance regularly reported.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In retrospect, aspects of the project’s quality at entry were problematic; however, the
Bank acted proactively in reviewing and working with the borrower to restructure the
project after it was clear that some objectives could not be met. The supervision team
increased its implementation support, and in doing so, strongly helped the client push
forward the Project’s activities for achieving the development outcomes. The Bank also
raised the profile of wider land policy issues within government and the government is
now actively pursuing interest in follow-on land related projects. This is the result of a
positive relationship being forged between the Bank and the government.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                          30
All components of the project suffered at startup through the lack of capacity within the
implementing institutions and the very slow appointment of key staff.

In the first half of the project, implementation performance was inadequate and higher
level interventions were required. At times, government’s ownership and commitment to
achieving development objectives was in doubt, exacerbated by several changes in
political appointments and a general elections over the project’s lifecycle. In the second
half of the project, government was more responsive to intervening and supporting the
project and successfully delivered the majority of targets following project restructuring.

The project restructuring changed the focus of the project and considerably diluted the
economic development objectives. Property tax raising opportunities were missed to help
build fiscal resources within municipalities to support solutions to the urban
infrastructure and environmental problems across Albania. This was a policy decision by
the government of Albania. However, it should be noted that towards the end of the
project the foundations had been laid, including property addresses, for the introduction
of a property tax and the government was re-evaluating property taxes.

The governance of multi-institutional projects was weak and caused problems and delays
with decision-making. The project would have benefited from earlier, stronger inter-
government project governance arrangements that emerged late in the project lifecycle.

In the last two years of the project, the government’s interest in the land sector
significantly increased and led to an embryonic national land policy being formulated,
land administrations services being integrated into e-government services and a review of
land sector governance arrangements being initiated.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project involved a wide range of implementing agencies, including IPRO in the
Ministry of Justice, Municipalities, MPWTT, Ministry of Interior and National Territorial
Planning Agency. This was a diverse set of stakeholders, but all had common problems:

      Lack of capacity to effectively support the project and ineffective associated
       capacity building programs;
      Lack of key skills in project management, procurement and contract management;
      A high degree of turnover in staff with no sustainable core of professionals;
      Poor project governance arrangements and consequently poor decision-making.

Component A suffered most from poor project management, unwillingness to build
capacity and, in particular, inadequate contract management. More progress was made
during last two years of the project, especially in managing the first registration
contractors, but this required very intensive implementation support from the Bank. The


                                          31
target of 400,000 first registrations will be close to have been met by the end of 2014.
Despite these constraints, IPRO established a world-class ICT solution, initiated on-line
customer information services, assumed self-financing status and raised the profile and
priority of land issues across government.

Component B was delayed by slow procurement of the planning consultants and suffered
from interruptions from the policy questions following problems with another World
Bank project dealing with land and construction issues. However, municipalities utilized
well with the participatory methodology to create the Regulatory Plans and also did a
good job building sustainable capacity.

Component C underperformed due to weak capacity in the municipalities to manage large
infrastructure projects and the majority of municipalities involved in the project never
built appropriate capacity.

Poor and prolonged procurements processes that were inappropriate under the emergency
circumstances severely impacted component D.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Agencies did not show initial ownership of the project and were slow to adequately
resource and fully commit to the projects. Despite significant efforts by the Bank to
capacity build and transfer knowledge, not all agencies have built sustainable capacity
and expertise. However, all agencies improved over the lifecycle of the project and
supported the delivery of the majority of the targets set during project restructuring. IPRO,
especially, showed significant improvement in performance during the last year of
implementing Component A. In addition, the land agenda has been firmly embraced by
government and several follow-on land based projects are being planned.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 Scope of Project

The original scope of the project was too diverse and ambitious and it was therefore very
problematic to manage all components effectively across so many different sectoral areas.
Component A alone would have been a significantly challenging project to manage in the
context of Albania’s development cycle. Project restructuring and a dedicated team leader
for Component A were helpful in resolving these issues.

Recommendations:
 Ensure that the scope of projects is much more focused.

6.2 Procurement




                                          32
The majority of the significant delays in project components were directly related to
procurement activities. A key weakness in all the procurement approaches was the
corresponding project governance arrangements and the voluntary attitude to membership
of evaluation committees. Many procurements involved multiple ministries / authorities
and there was no single responsible officer (SRO) appointed to take sole charge of the
procurement process. This led to delays in forming and sustaining evaluation committees,
interference and significant delays in the decision making process.

Recommendations:
 Strengthen project procurement governance arrangements through the
   appointment of SROs and evaluation committees.
 Increase capacity building around procurement management.

6.3 Contract Management

Component A suffered considerable problems in the management of the contractors
involved in completing first registrations. The issues and disputes revolved around poor
definition of responsibilities and performance of the client and the contractor within the
contract; the contract was based on a civil engineering type of contract rather than a
service contract (no technical service contract templates were available at the time). The
client was unable to (or was unwilling to) intervene to insist on experienced staff listed in
the contractors’ bids being assigned to the project, to set thresholds on the quality of the
first registration information acquired in the field and to set performance standards to
complete first registrations. The contractor was unable to insist on timetables for IPRO
district offices to provide existing documentation and quality assure the first registration
material provided by the contractors. Neither side invoked penalty clauses to resolve non-
performance. The fundamental issue lay in the lack of contract management skills within
IPRO. However, this improved during the last year of the project.

Recommendations:
 Ensure that borrowers have sufficient contract management skills to create a
   robust and fair contract and can effectively manage the contractors.

6.4 Project Management

Component A was a complex project involving a wide range of stakeholders, including
three data capture contractors, one quality assurance contractor and an ICT hardware
supply and system integration contractor. Apart from the development of ICT solutions
that adopted the Rational Unified Process (RUP) iterative software development
approach, the project management was ad hoc and did not follow a specific project
management methodology. This led to weak project governance, bad planning and poor
communication with all stakeholders. The consequence was that the World Bank team
had to increase the frequency of their missions and the number of personnel involved.
This also led to the World Bank needing to provide significantly intensive
implementation support in the second half of the project to compensate for deficiencies in



                                           33
local project management. This approach delivered short-term gains, but did not solve the
inherent problem of weak project management and project sustainability.

Recommendations:
 Adopt a project management methodology, such as PRINCE28 for example, for
   these complex projects and ensure that all personnel, especially management,
   are trained in the methodology.
 Where project management skills are weak in the hosting institution then
   consider providing an international project manager for the initial period of the
   project to ensure project management skills transfer.
 Insist on strong project governance through the creation of a project board and
   Senior Responsible Officer.

6.5 Capacity Building

The project was handicapped by insufficient capacity across the Albanian government
institutions to effectively support the project components. This was compounded by very
limited delivery of training, especially in components A and C. For example, capacity at
the IPRO District Offices was insufficient to support both first registrations and ad hoc
registrations in many offices. A training consultant carried out a Training Needs
Assessment in 2008 that assessed the capacities and the general training needs for IPRO
staff and prepared a corresponding training program to fill the capacity gap.
Unfortunately, in June 2011 the IPRO top management drastically reduced the amount of
training packages thus placing the overall strategy at greater risk.

Political appointees and the results of general elections also had a major influence on
institutional capacity. As political parties gained power they would replace a large
percentage of the institutional staff, causing project delays of around six months. This led
to IPRO being predominantly composed of political appointees rather than land
professionals and this further increased the need for training.

After several attempts over two years to procure a software development company to
implement the ICT solution for IPRO, the government decided to build and use an in-
house software development team. This turned out to be a very successful, flexible,
sustainable and cost effective approach that has delivered an effective solution for all 35
IPRO District Offices to maintain data digitally through front and back office
functionalities and scanned archives. The solution is based on international data standards
and web services architecture and information services for notaries, ALUIZNI and
Commission for Restitution and Compensation have been in use since 2013 and citizen
services will be introduced in 2014.

Recommendations:


8
    PRoject In Controlled Environments 2 (http://www.prince-officialsite.com )



                                                   34
   Introduce sustained capacity building early in the project lifecycle in projects
    where there is weak, initial capacity.
   Externalize training to ensure sustainability of training services through major
    changes to the institutions where there is a high turnover of staff.
   Automatically build project delays of six months into projects in countries where
    general elections will cause high staff replacements in institutions.
   Consider creating an in-house software development team rather than
    contracting out the software development. This has proven to be a cost effective,
    very responsive and sustainable approach.

6.6 Shared Services

Component B of the project requested that the contractors developing the Regulatory
Plans within eight municipalities also build Geographic Information System (GIS) skills
within the municipalities to support the direct digital maintenance of the Regulatory Plans.
This was only successfully achieved in one municipality. The other municipalities either
had no GIS solutions or lacked resources or capacity. In these circumstances, it would
have been more effective to have initially created one center of excellence for GIS, say at
the NTPA, and run this as a shared service for the municipalities.

Recommendations:
 When introducing new technology solutions to a decentralized institution (such
   as municipalities) where there is weak capacity, it would be beneficial to initially
   establish a single center of excellence as a shared service. Capacity can then be
   built across the organization and local centers of excellence established
   downstream.

6.7 Proof of Concept / Pilot Projects

When component A was originally defined, it was assumed that the experiences of the
previous OSCE and USAID first registration projects that covered around 90% of
Albania would be directly used to shape the approach, associated business processes and
contracts for capturing and quality assuring the first registrations under component A.
However, this did not happen. Rather than combining systematic and sporadic
registrations and integrating quality assurance, IPRO simply focused on systematic
registration leading to problems that had to be mitigated downstream. The World Bank
team was not knowledgeable and strong enough at this stage to challenge IPRO on this
new and untested approach. So it went ahead uncontested. A small first registration
capture contract was initially awarded to an Albanian company, XYZ, but the contract
was terminated due to non-performance. Lessons learned from this early contract were
not taken onboard, especially weak capacity at the IPRO District Offices, and
subsequently the adopted process would cause problems for the project. This was
compounded by an unwillingness of IPRO to adopt an effective, ongoing capacity
building program.

Recommendations:


                                          35
   Whenever new approaches are being proposed for major data capture and
    maintenance projects, it is essential that they are initially tested and improved
    through rigorous proof of concept / pilot projects.

6.8 Independent Quality Assurance Capability

Experience from this Albanian project and similar land registration projects across the
ECA region indicate that it is highly beneficial to integrate independent quality assurance
capability into the project designs. The approach reduces the effort required by the
agency in quality assurance, instills consistent quality assurance across the process,
provides objectivity and a degree of arbitration in the quality assurance process and
strengthens the contractual relationship between the agency and the data capture
contractors.

Recommendations:
 Integrate independent quality assurance capability through external contracts
   into the land registration project designs.

6.9 Sequencing of Interventions

The original design of the LAMP project included a number of interventions that were
not aligned with the political agenda within Albania, for example, property tax. These
interventions were eventually abandoned from the project during restructuring.

Recommendations:
 Ensure that project interventions are sequenced appropriately and aligned with
   political priority and direction of travel.

6.10 Wider Government Engagement

The LAMP project was successful in persevering, despite setbacks, and building a
productive relationship with wider government to raise the profile and priority of the land
agenda. This resulted in government formulating a national land strategy and initiating a
number of land based follow-on projects.

Recommendations:
 Engage effectively with government in the wider sector to ensure government
   broadens the initiative, stimulates new initiatives in the sector and strengthens
   the sustainability of the original project.

6.11 Fastracking Procurement for Emergency Projects

Component D of the LAMP project involved procuring water supply and drainage pump
stations to mitigate flooding in the north of Albania. Despite the emergency context,
procurement of some stations was delayed 2 years although no adverse events
materialized before project completion.


                                          36
Recommendations:
 Review and revise the Bank’s emergency procurement procedures.

6.12 Investment Projects are not Ideal Instruments for Policy Reforms

A property tax law reform covenant was included in the design of the original investment
project framework. This reform was dropped during project restructuring. Bank research
in the ECA region has indicated that investment projects are not ideal instruments for
policy or regulatory reforms of a significant nature that have substantial uncertainty and
where there is no leverage, but to suspend disbursements. DPLs are considered much
more effective.

Recommendations:
 Avoid including law / regulation reform covenants in investment projects.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Component A:

The ICR from IPRO indicated that the agency has learned some key lessons in:
developing and managing IT; avoiding mistakes in contracting first registration activities;
optimizing the processes in capturing and quality controlling first registrations; the
importance of capacity building; and how crucial a strategic business plan is in managing
a self financing organization. However, their ICR does not admit or address their key
deficiencies in contract and project management. The sustainability of positive changes
made to IPRO by this project will depend on whether IPRO implement recommendations
in these key areas.

(b) Cofinanciers

Sida:

As a co-financier, Sida recommended that in similar projects a representative of Sida
should join the Bank’s bi-annual missions. Given the scale of the input to this type of
project, this is a good recommendation.

Sida also highlighted the issue of companies contracted for first registration activities not
being fully paid at the end of their contracts. This could potentially limit the participation
of foreign companies in future projects in Albania was a direct consequence of poor
contract management by IPRO – one of the major deficiencies on the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                           37
UN-FAO has integrated their comments into this report during their review of the ICR
and did not produce a separate statement on the project.




                                        38
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component A                                       19.42              23.25               120%
Component B                                        5.10               3.34                66%
Component C                                       31.48               4.35                14%
Component D9                                                          8.61               n.a.10
                Total Baseline Cost               56.00              39.56               71%
Physical Contingencies
                                                   0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                   0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs                  56.00              39.56                71%
Front-end fee PPF                                  0.30               0.28                94%
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.00               0.00
     Total Financing Required                     56.30              39.84                71%




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                               Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)   millions)
                                            Govt. of
Borrower                                    Albania        0.64         1.31            205%
                                            (National)
 International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
                                       World Bank          20.22        17.44           86%
 International Development
                                       World Bank          15.40        14.87           97%
Association (IDA)
 JAPAN: Ministry of Finance - PHRD International
                                                           1.54         1.48            96%
Grants                                 Donor
 Municipalities of Borrowing Country Govt. of              0.96         0.90            94%



9
    Added after the January 2011 restructuring.

10
  At the time of the January 2011 restructuring, US$ 12.21 million were reallocated from Component C to
the new Component D. Of this US$ 12.21 million, US$ 8.61 million or 71% was actually disbursed.



                                                   39
                             Albania
                             (local)
SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.   International
                                           2.44   4.81   197%
Cooperation Agency (Sida)    Donor




                                   40
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Security of Tenure and Registration of Immovable Property Rights

Subcomponent A.1.1: Re-engineering of office functions and quality improvement

This sub-component supported the IPRO in enhancing their management effectiveness,
improving human resources policies, and also improving its service delivery and
transparency. It included the re-engineering of the workflow in IPRO, the re-design of
business processes through the introduction of more rigorous systems of case
management and quality control, and business/human resource planning. This sub-
component also supported the remedial work required to bring existing kartela and
cadastral map information up to the prescribed standards.

   The re-engineering of office functions and quality improvement were linked closely
    with the ICT sub-component. ALBSReP is the fully automated system with internal
    controls for case management and quality control components. The IPRO drafted
    detailed Instructions for use of ALBSReP to maintain new first registration data. With
    regard to improving existing data, the new registration law approved in March 2012
    included a provision for initiating the process and more detailed procedures and
    regulations were under development, but not completed at the end of the project. The
    general regulations are planned to be completed by May 2015.

   Significant institutional changes have been implemented. The IPRO became a self-
    financing agency as of April 1, 2013. In order to support the new structure a Strategic
    Business Plan (SBP) was developed through a Sida Twinning project. The IPRO
    Steering Board approved the final version of the SBP. The importance of adopting the
    SBP is highlighted by the fact that IPRO had to return over US$5 million to the State
    Budget for 2013 because it did not have the funds allocated to properly planned
    activities for the much needed investments. Key highlights of the Strategic Business
    Plan include:

       IPRO Business Aim:
       IPRO registers immovable properties, ownership titles and other real rights,
       maintains and administers the register of properties, the cadastral maps and legal
       documentation, which proves ownership rights of citizens, natural and legal
       persons, in order to assure legal certainty in relation to the immovable property
       actions.

       IPRO Vision 2018:
       IPRO, as a self-funded and client-oriented organization administers and
       guarantees full, accurate, sustainable and up-to-date registration of immovable
       property information, and it provides geospatial information and other related
       services. Products and services are provided with effectiveness, efficacy, in a
       transparent and non-discriminatory manner. IPRO through its products and
       services, in line with the EU standards and best international practices contributes


                                          41
to the building and stability of the real estate market and it therefore supports the
social and economic development of Albania.

Strategies:
    Provision of standard qualitative data for all the properties.
    Improvement of client-oriented services.
    Improvement of the management system and building of technical
       capacities of the staff.
    Extension of the scope of activities.

Objectives:
   Provision of standard qualitative data for all the properties
      o Completion of initial registration of all the cadastral zones until the
          second quarter of 2014.
      o Completion of initial registration of all the remaining cadastral zones
          until the fourth quarter of 2016.
      o Functioning of ALBSReP in 10 big offices, until the second quarter of
          2014.
      o Functioning of ALBSReP in remaining offices, until the fourth quarter
          of 2015.
      o The information found in IPRO is improved and updated to meet the
          requirements foreseen by law 33/2012 and as such, they may be used
          in the ALBSReP system within the fourth quarter of 2018.

      Improvement of client-oriented services
       o Reduction of the time period of provision of services for the services
         of x % until the fourth quarter of 2016.
       o Setting up of the focus groups for seven big segments of the market
         according to Chapter 5.4 within the first quarter of 2014.
       o Client Satisfaction Survey must indicate that more than 70% of clients
         are "satisfied" or "very much satisfied" within the fourth quarter of
         2016.
       o Legitimate facilitators are provided with access to the existing
         information in the online ALBSReP system within the fourth quarter
         of 2014.

      Improvement of the management systems and building of technical
       capacities of the staff
       o Reconstruction/Construction of local offices with the proper
          infrastructure, in line with the economic standards of the offices,
          within the fourth quarter of 2018.
       o Installation of the Financial Management System, including the
          Financial Management Manual and Software within the fourth quarter
          of 2014.




                                   42
               o Imposition of the Performance Indicators for the work processes,
                 services, staff and drafting of performance assessment methodology
                 within the second quarter of 2015.
               o Preparation of the regulatory framework of human resources and
                 drafting of the long-term training strategy within the second quarter of
                 2014.
               o Design and installation of intranet within the second quarter of 2017.

              Extension of the scope of activities
               o ALBPOS made operational and maintenance within the second quarter
                  of 2014.
               o ALBPOS business plan completed within the second quarter of 2014.
               o Structure and necessary capacities for valuation of properties within
                  the fourth quarter of 2017.
               o Interface of the Civil Register, Address Register and other valid
                  databases within the fourth quarter of 2014.

   The Prime Minister’s Office is now overseeing improvements to key agencies across
    the public sector, including IPRO. Set of deliverables within a 100 and 300 days has
    been delivered to the Prime Minister’s Office from IPRO. These deliverables have
    been directly derived from the Strategic Business Plan.

   The implementation of the ALBSReP solution and the proposed implementation of a
    one-stop-shop by the Prime Minister’s Office provides IPRO with the opportunity to
    rationalize the District Office network of 35 offices and create centralized service
    centers to process the transactions. This would lower the costs of operations and
    reduce the capacity building issues in District Offices.

Subcomponent A.1.2: Information Technology Development.

The sub-component supported the further implementation of automated systems to
support the re-engineered workflow and the IPRO Registration Automation Strategy. The
implementation focused on the larger urban district offices. The project also financed
data conversion, data improvement and the creation of digital archives of key property
records. The target of this sub-component was to fully computerize ten IPRO district
offices. This means i) connectivity and networking with the central office; ii) integration
of software and hardware, iii) data migration and iv) trained and competent staff capable
to use and maintain the system.

   By the end of the project in June 30, 2014 the ICT system (ALBSReP) was in
    operation 17 District Offices (including Tirana, Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Shkodra, Laç,
    Lezhe and Lushnje), despite a delay of more than a year due to the lack of a contract
    for communication lines to connect the 10 largest local offices with the main data
    center in Tirana. This ICT solution includes the scanned digital archives and scanning
    of incoming documents in the larger 11 offices. Progress has been made in
    completing the indices of the scanned documents with missing indices (about 15% of


                                          43
    documents were not properly indexed – close to 2 millions documents). This has been
    reduced to 2.8% of scanned documents. By October 31, 2014, ALBSReP had been
    installed in all 35 District Offices to support the front and back office functionalities
    to maintain the first registration data and there is a central database that manages the
    data from all 35 offices.

   Online services to the notaries is fully operational and a new service layer had been
    developed to provide all types of information (scanned documents, alphanumeric and
    graphical) to key external users, subject to signed agreements and based on the
    existing legal regulations. The system is ready to share information with key
    government registers, such as civil register, business register and tax register. Gender
    disaggregated data has been generated from the new IT system; this is an additional
    achievement.

   The ICT system (ALBSReP) and its development have been a key success in this
    project. Some of the key success factors have been:

       o Software Development Team composition: The software development team
         had a clear structure and was led by a senior software development team
         leader and clear planning and reporting mechanisms were on place. The local
         software development team was supported by an international quality
         assurance expert (responsible for system quality assurance, capacity building
         as well as advising the decision makers on the progress, key issues and
         possible solutions) and a senior solution architect (responsible for design of
         the system architecture and technical platform, including oversight of supply
         of hardware and integration). In addition there was a twining project that
         SIDA financed, during the inception phase that strengthened the system
         design.
       o Rational Unified Process (RUP) methodology: RUP was selected and
         introduced to manage the ICT system design and development and was
         strictly followed right from the beginning.
       o Adoption of International Standards: The ALBSReP solution was the first
         in Europe to adopt the Land Administration Domain Model (LADM) ISO
         standard.
       o System Documentation: The ALBSReP solution has been fully documented
         by the system developers.
       o Three level ICT management structure: This effective structure was
         established from the beginning with clear reporting mechanism (decision
         making body, project manager and working groups and contractors plus
         quality assurance advisors).
       o Training and capacity building: Capacity building of the IT team was an
         integral part of planned program and regularly provided through on the job
         training, provided by the quality assurance expert.
       o IPRO IT Directorate structure: The IT Directorate was reviewed and re-
         organized in a modern and effective way. The Software Development Unit
         was established and staff hired. The Maintenance and Support Unit was


                                           44
          strengthened with two additional system and DB administrators to create
          effective sustainability of the unit.
        o High-level political support: This top-level support ensured adequate
          resources and enforced excellent communications.
        o Excellent Stakeholder Engagement: Regular video-conferencing and
          meetings during the supervision missions were organized with the members of
          the decision making body (mainly with the Deputy Minister of Ministry of
          Innovation and ICT, the prime minister adviser on ICT and the Director of
          Agency for Information Technology), IPRO IT project manager and the Bank
          team followed up on the progress and efficiently resolved any critical issues.
        o Clarity on Roles & Responsibilities: The IPRO board has approved the IPS
          Security Instruction. This is a very important document that details who has
          access to which part of the system and what are their roles and
          responsibilities.

    No progress was made in finding a temporary solution for the Disaster Recovery
     Center. This will now wait until the Ministry of Innovation completes their disaster
     recovery center for all government institutions; a feasibility study is currently
     performed. The ALBSReP system is fully centralized (both instances of the
     ALBSReP are located in the same building) and the Bank team raised the risk of
     delaying the disaster recovery center to the Government of Albania for a long time.

    KPMG, Italy were hired as independent quality assurance and quality control experts
     to support the IPRO to supervise the supply and integration contract, to perform
     software quality assurance and quality control, define procedures for system final
     acceptance and guide the software development team. This was designed to add
     considerable value to the development of the ALBSReP system and lower the
     corresponding risks. This added value was not delivered as the contract with the IT
     supplier was terminated for lack of performance11.

    The introduction of the ALBSReP system to the District Offices staff required
     training, not only on the IT system use, but also legal and procedural training. This
     training and associated support was limited and significantly reduced the effective use
     of the ALBSReP system.

    In August 2014, the contractors delivering the ICT infrastructure had their contract
     terminated due to non-performance on the integration component of their contract.
     The contractor has challenged this move by IPRO and the dispute is being managed
     initially through arbitration. No alternative source of support has been identified by
     IPRO, exposing IPRO to further risk.

Subcomponent A.1.3: Internal and External Monitoring



11
   An independent review in September 2014 recommended that IPRO re-establish their relationship with
the IT integration contractor to complete the contract.


                                               45
This sub-component supported internal monitoring through the development of control
procedures for processing applications and transactions, standards for quality control,
and a strategy to monitor performance.

   The use of the ALBSReP system enhanced monitoring and evaluation efforts at the
    11 large District Offices because it allowed IPRO to track registration indicators
    quickly and without errors. Further roll out of the ALBSReP system will increase the
    ability of the central IPRO to monitor local office performance and service delivery.

   Citizens Engagement improved the feedback mechanism in service delivery. IPRO
    customer satisfaction surveys were completed in 2008, 2011 and 2014 prior to the
    closure of the project. The result of the 2014 customer survey showed that customer
    satisfaction was rated as “average”. Collecting feedback is of particular importance
    because IPRO, a self-financing institution, constantly needs to improve services based
    on customers’ feedback. It is anticipated that further roll out of the ALBSReP system
    and e-services, such as linkages with notaries and banks, and increased capacity
    building will further streamline and improve the customer experience. Further, hotline
    system was in place for customers to contact IPRO to make an inquiry and report an
    issue in land administration services.

Subcomponent A.1.4: Public Relations and Data Access Protocols

This subcomponent aimed to improve public awareness on land administration by
implementing public information campaigns, including the development of information
materials (brochures, posters, etc.) and information flows to the media (newspapers,
radio, television programs). Public relations activities were also extended to other key
government and private sector entities that were concerned with immovable property
rights. Furthermore, the activity supported the establishment of linkages to other
government agencies for data coordination, including the development of procedures and
standards for the sharing of property information with banks, builders, notaries, courts,
etc.

   A Public Relation consultant was hired during the project to help build the public
    image of IPRO and support the Chief Registrar with respect to the relationship with
    the media. Daily clippings of copies of the press were collected (search key words:
    IPRO, Chief Registrar, hypoteka) and the consultant informed the Chief Registrar
    about interesting press announcements on a daily basis. An analogue and digital
    archive of published articles has been created. A Media Plan and Public Relations
    Plan have been created to guide this on-going activity.

   Public relation activities in urban and rural cadastral zones to increase the level of
    awareness and participation of citizens in the public display process were not
    effective during the project, with low levels of participation in the urban areas.




                                          46
   Good engagement was made with banks, builders, notaries, courts, etc. through
    workshops to discuss how to share property information. At the end of the project e-
    services had been established with the notaries. Citizens were also able to determine
    the status of the processing of their transaction on-line.

Subcomponent A.1.5: Improvement of Facilities.

This subcomponent supported renovation of IPRO offices in order to improve services to
clients.

   IPRO completed renovations in four offices: Tirana Central, Fier, Lezhe and Korca.
    However, planned refurbishments in Shkodra, Lushnje and Vlora were canceled
    because sufficient office space was not found.

   The Chief Registrar at the end of the project understood the impact of effective front
    offices in terms of staff moral, efficiency of service delivery, customer satisfaction
    and reducing the likelihood of corruption. The changes made to the Tirana office are
    a good example of the progress made.

Subcomponent A.2.1: Public Relations and Customer Outreach

The subcomponent is supposed to provide support for a public campaign and public
outreach before and after the first registration process. Special attention should be paid
to reach out to women, minorities, and disadvantaged groups and to explain the rationale
for the registration process, benefits and obligations of the citizens.

   Contractors mostly provided support for the public awareness campaign before and
    during the first registration process. The three first registration contractors displayed
    posters about scheduled first registration in public and commonly visited places.
    However, they should also have delivered leaflets door to door and explain the benefit
    of first registration before the start of field measurements and the public display; this
    would have significantly increased the participation.

   The first registration contractors were advised to pay special attention to women,
    minorities and disadvantaged groups in the registration process and to improve their
    access to property rights through explaining the rationale for the registration process,
    as well as the benefits and obligations of the citizens. The international supervision
    quality control contractor in the first registration process controlled the later
    information campaigns, the public display place and awareness of people of the
    importance of registration and visiting the public display place. This was more
    effective that the earlier campaigns.

Subcomponent A.2.2: First Registration

The subcomponent implemented the complete and comprehensive process of first
registration.


                                           47
The figure below shows the two-phase work and quality control procedure as it was
defined in the first registration contracts. This procedure is quite complex and requires
multiple control and correctional work with many opportunities for problems and
discussions to arise. This resulted in a lot of administrative efforts on both sides. For
example, one of the contractors wrote nearly 2,000 letters up to March 2014. Many of
them were not answered or not answered in time.




Figure 1: Work and quality control procedure for first registrations

   The table below shows the status of the first registration deliverables at the end of the
    project on the 30th June 2014. As of October 31, 2014—the last day of contract
    payments—the project had registered 357,383 properties in 66 Cadastral Zones
    instead of the project target of 400,000 properties.


                                                                              Properties
                                                                           delivered but
                                                                            QC not met
                                                       No. of properties     (checked at
                                                        as of June 30,     least one time
                                                             2014           but rejected)   TOTAL
            Completed First Phase                               424,671           137,765    562,436




                                                    48
          Undergoing Public Viewing                         422,671
          Completed Public Viewing                          388,911
          Kartelas's printed and handed over to IPRO        314,155   25,934   340,089
          Registered                                        263,343


   The contractors are still engaged and working on Phase 2 through until the end of
    October 2014 with IPRO and District Offices directly providing QC services. It is
    estimated that over 402,000 properties will have first registration by the end of 2014.
    The Government of Albania has agreed a budget for IPRO to support the completion
    of the first registrations.

   IPRO contracted four companies to capture first registrations:

       o Contractor 1, contract dated 13 June 2008, pilot of one cadastral zone
         (contract cancelled prior to completion in July 2010);
       o Contractor 2, First Registration Contract LAMP-A2.2/TS/FR/ICB-01 dated 05
         March 2009, with a contract amount of ALL 315,470,516.00. The contract
         included 22 cadastral zones with an estimated number of 120,000 properties
         and contract duration of 25 months.
       o Contractor 3, First Registration Contract LAMP-A2.2/TS/FR/ICB-02 dated 08
         April 2010 with a contract amount of ALL 463,357,519. The Contract
         included 50 cadastral zones with an estimated number of 180,000 properties
         and contract duration of 25 months.
       o Contractor 4, First Registration Contract LAMP-A2.2/TS/FR/ICB-03 dated 25
         January 2012, with a contract amount of ALL 468,350,202. The Contract
         included 73 cadastral zones with an estimated number of 140,000 properties
         and contract duration of 20 months.

   The project was planned to last 4 years. From the beginning delays occurred in all
    components. The delays in component A2.2 were initially caused by late procurement
    and accumulated over the time mainly due to the long time needed by the contractors
    to understand the task, the missing skills of the recruited contractors’ national staff
    and of the IPRO staff, the inefficient communication rules prescribed by the contract,
    the late implementation of the quality control (QC) and the complicated QC
    procedures, the inappropriate contract management and finally the demotivation of
    the stakeholders. It was finally impossible to catch up on the proposed targets despite
    the contractors and IPRO significantly increasing their performance towards the end
    of the project.

   IPRO did not meet the target of 400,000 first registrations as of June 30, 2014. The
    key reasons behind this underperformance are detailed below:

       o At the beginning of the project IPRO changed the first registration process
         from what was originally designed and used by USAID and OSCE. Under the
         original process the contractor was responsible for both systematic / sporadic
         registrations (review, verification, integration into the systematic process).


                                                       49
       However, IPRO changed the process where IPRO District Offices also
       became responsible for review / verification of sporadic registrations, which
       caused significant delays and other problems. The IPRO District Offices did
       not have the capacity (in either time or professional skills) to do the work. The
       local First Registration advisor strongly advised against the change, but IPRO
       management ignored the proposal. Ironically, the original first registration
       process was adopted for the last contract.

    o Until LAMP was initiated, all first registration work was completed by donor
      projects, including contract management and quality control. The role of
      IPRO was simply to accept the registration products and their only real task
      was for the registrar to sign and stamp the kartelas. The Bank underestimated
      the capacity of IPRO to manage the whole process, since IPRO had never
      done the work in the past. Furthermore, the Bank was not good in the early
      years of the project at providing the necessary assessment and advice on what
      was needed for IPRO to take over the work. For example, the Bank team
      should have understood the implications of the contract change, noted above,
      and advised against it and either made sure a pilot was performed to see how
      it would work or ensured IPRO had professional TA for the work they were
      undertaking. It was not until the strong Bank land team was engaged in 2010
      that the situation was addressed, but by them things were so bad it required
      micro-management.

    o The professional first registration expert assigned to the PMU was not fully
      engaged in substantive work; rather the expert was marginalized and tasked
      with secretarial duties rather than providing professional, actual first
      registration advice and support. Thus, from a project management perspective,
      IPRO and PMU manager did not use staff advantageously.
 
    o IPRO and PMU managers did not believe that training was a priority and even
      basic training for contractors and DIPRO staff on first registration contracts
      did not take place even with repeated recommendations over the past 2-3
      years of supervision missions. In addition, IPRO did not have a general
      training program for new staff, the last comprehensive / routine program was
      held in early 2000s. Thus, with high staff turnover the staff did not have basic
      training or capacity building programs, which was evidenced by their lack of
      understanding of even basic registration principles.

    o The first contract on first registration was signed with the Albanian company
      XYZ in 2008 and was terminated before finalization. The lack of available
      national experiences, experts and national contractors resulted in the IPRO
      decision to adopt international tendering. It was hoped that this approach
      would tap into better knowledge, experiences, internal quality controls,
      efficiency and financial stability. Unfortunately, the international companies
      selected did not deliver these characteristics and even the companies reneged



                                      50
   in using their experienced international personnel that was part of their
   corresponding tenders.

o The legal framework only took IT into consideration in 2012. The Law Nr.
  33/2012 “On Immovable Property Registration” approved on March 21, 2012.
  However, no new corresponding by-laws were developed. Therefore, the
  contractors used the old regulations as authoritative. The unclear legal
  situation created problems for the contractors and added to the delays.

o Project management was very poor with project planning and coordination
  amongst the stakeholders inadequate. Even when IPRO and the District
  Offices agreed on plans in first registration they did not maintain and execute
  them; normally because the project plans were not realistic. Even the
  contractors did not maintain adequate project plans. The reporting and
  monitoring system was functioning well for a short period of time in 2012 -
  2013, later on it was not systematically organized and managed and some
  reports were delivered in written form and others were given orally.

o Information flows between different partners in the project and to different
  levels was weak. Generally, there was no day-to-day communication or
  constructive cooperation. It was more of a formal communication by letter,
  which tended to lead to confrontation instead of cooperation. IPRO introduced
  meetings on quality control investigations for Phase I and II products in 2012.
  Meetings on quality control of all partners in the first registration (IPRO,
  District Offices, contractors, Supervisor) were useful, but were not organized
  for a long period of time. Day-to-day communication has improved in the last
  few months of the project with a more engaged performance of the Directorate
  for mapping and first registration, with the support of the Deputy Chief
  Registrar and indirectly the Chief Registrar.

o The authority of the project manager and capacity for decision making was
  weak and not effective most of the time in LAMP. There were shared
  responsibilities with no single authority and no clarity of whom to address to
  get a reliable, quick and credible response. Indeed, most of the time there was
  nobody in the project who appeared to have that capacity and mandate, and
  this was the primary cause of the range of problems that have occurred during
  the time of project implementation.

o The contract on public awareness campaign, signed in 2009 with extensions,
  was covering, among other aspects, the improved support for the public
  displays of first registrations. The response of owners to public displays was
  only 20 – 30%; too low compared to project expectations and international
  practices. The systematic registration process lacked attention to community
  mobilization efforts that involves District Offices and their local environment,
  because simply publishing formal press releases in national newspapers did
  not contribute to an acceptable outcome. Monitoring and capacity building of



                                  51
   contractors who were obliged to inform citizens about first registration and to
   invite them, door to door, to attend public displays, needed to be more under
   the IPRO control. There should have been more communication between the
   contractors and District Offices and Registrars and more cooperation with
   local authorities especially before and during field measurements and public
   displays. Further, public awareness campaigns needed to be more strategic to
   target women and vulnerable communities such as Roma and Egyptians. The
   approaches in improving their awareness on property rights should have been
   tailored depending on target groups. Local authorities seemed to be interested
   in greater cooperation and mayors should have been contacted to be more
   involved to help inform their citizens about the importance of registering
   property. IPRO did not intervene in the contract of the public awareness
   campaign contractor. Another example of poor contract management.

o The type of the contract for the Supervision of first registration was a time
  based (consultancy) contract with the defined number of cadastral zones in
  Phase I and II that will be checked. This was flawed.

o The Supervisor and international companies were not sufficiently skilled in
  services they offered. They did not bring automated procedures in quality
  control to speed up the procedures, but instead relied on the IPRO support in
  knowledge and technical tools. They introduced old fashioned and long
  lasting approaches for the work they implemented. In the last year of the
  project they came on track on how to do their job professionally and correctly,
  but were already in delays of days and months throughout the project duration
  in comparison to what was defined in the contract. They did not engage
  sufficient numbers of staff, e.g. in June 2012 they worked with 4.5 employees
  instead of 10 needed at that time.

o The consistency and quality of field measurements were constantly improving
  and, according to the Supervisor, it only reached the required level for all
  three contractors in March 2014 – three months before project closure.

o District Office staff were generally neither sufficiently qualified nor trained
  for the quality performance of first registration activities. The Bank team
  advised IPRO to involve District Offices in the control of field measurements
  done by the first registration contractors (in addition to the control of the
  Supervisor), in support of the information campaign and to be more proactive
  in checking and resolving open issues raised by the first registration
  contractors. The activities were supposed to be supported more robustly by
  IPRO monitoring staff that needed to be more intensely involved in solving
  practical problems and monitoring first registration. The advice was not
  accepted by the IPRO due to financial problems and over busy staff at the
  local level. The first registration data strategy and coordinator consultant was
  hired by the IPRO to support data migration and data maintenance, but the




                                  52
   consultant finished the assignment with very few activities completed as
   defined in the contract.

o The Bank team suggested to the IPRO in 2012 to perform a more efficient and
  accurate quality checking of first registration products by standardizing the
  quality checking procedures and by automating logical and technical controls
  (excluding the legal checking). There were problems in first registration data
  migration into both the new ALBSReP system and the old Pasurite system (in
  places where the ALBSReP system was not yet available). An agreement was
  reached in the IPRO to develop a logical control module that would
  functionally serve both, the new ALBSReP system for data migration and the
  first registration data quality checking. The newly developed IT-based
  checking tool was planned to be provided to all first registration contractors,
  to the Supervisor and the IPRO at the beginning of 2013. The module was
  tested, updated, delivered to the partners in first registration and updated again.
  The final version was re-delivered to all first registration contractors, to the
  Supervisor and the IPRO in April 2014. The approach minimized the number
  of controls and the number of IPRO and supervisor’s staff involved in quality
  checking. Although very late in the project cycle.

o Ownership of the LAMP first registration and its priority in execution was
  rarely with the Chief Registrar at the central level and with Registrars on the
  District / local level due to several objective and subjective reasons. The
  situation was improved in 2012 on the request of the Prime Minister and
  towards the end of the project in 2014.

o District Office staff were not informed well about the plans for the first
  registration project implementation, the expected deadlines, their role and
  responsibilities. First registration was not a priority activity as their main
  focus was on serving customer needs on a daily basis in their regular work.
  Understaffing of the District Offices, as well as a lack of expert and legal
  knowledge and practical experience, remained a hindrance even though the
  project paid for additional staff in first registration that were supposed to be
  dedicated to first registration activities (in some case they were not, for some
  of them even the reports of their work were not delivered to the LAMP project
  manager).

o This component suffered considerable problems in the management of the
  contractors involved in completing first registrations. The issues and disputes
  resolved around poor definition of responsibilities and performance of the
  client and the contractor within the contract; the contract was based on a civil
  engineering type of contract rather than a service contract (no technical
  service contract templates were available at the time). The client was unable
  to (or was unwilling to) intervene to insist on experienced staff listed in the
  bids being assigned to the project, to set thresholds on the quality of the first
  registration information acquired in the field and to set performance standards



                                   53
           to complete first registrations. The contractor was unable to insist on
           timetables for IPRO district offices to provide existing documentation and
           quality assure the first registration material provided by the contractors.
           Neither side invoked penalty clauses to resolve non-performance. The
           fundamental issue lay in the lack of contract management skills within IPRO.

       o It is imperative that the first registration data are maintained in digital form by
         the District Offices following subsequent sporadic registrations. No
         monitoring process is in place to check that this is happening across the
         District Office network.

Subcomponent A.2.3: Quality control

The subcomponent supported the establishment of quality control processes for all
cadastral mapping and adjudication documents (produced under Component A.2.2)
before entry into the land registry. This was to ensure that all the work met the quality
standards specified in the first registration manual and the global contract, and that all
rights and boundaries were recorded accurately. The quality control process included an
in depth technical audit of a sample of all first registration documentation.

   During the early first registration contracts local IPRO offices performed the quality
    control. There was insufficient capacity within these offices to cope with the level of
    quality control required. This was compounded by the poor quality of field staff
    employed by the contracts that produced poor quality information requiring several
    iterations of quality control.

   The lack of quality control capacity was resolved when an international company was
    contracted (time based contract) as independent quality supervisor. The supervisor’s
    role was to approve phase 1 and 2 products. This should not have included “approved
    with problems”. Delays in renewing the supervisor’s contracts created backlogs in
    quality control and contributed to overall delays in achieving the 400,000 first
    registrations target.

   The combination of central IPRO, local IPRO offices and the international
    supervision quality control contractor conducted quality control. The agreed
    contractual obligation for completing the quality checking was 15 days. However, for
    much of the project it was between 20 days and 40 days. Lack of statistics available
    on the turnaround time for the first registration quality controls executed by the local
    IPRO offices made project management problematic.

   A logical control module that would functionally serve both, the new ALBSReP
    system for data migration and the first registration data quality checking was
    developed and rolled out during 2013 / 2014; very late in the project lifecycle.

The supervisor company providing independent quality control of first registrations,
provided the following recommendations on future projects from their perspective. The


                                          54
recommendations are defensive in nature and do not address criticisms of their operations
of not adhering to the 15 days turnaround and not being efficient in a time based contract
in processing the first registrations, for example:

      For future First Registration contracts, IPRO should ensure that technical
       monitoring work commences at the same time, or slightly before, the production
       work. This would allow for an initial review of procedures and for the technical
       monitor to engage the best human resources.
      IPRO should ensure that, for future First Registration contracts, the concept of the
       combination of District Office work with Contractors’ work should be reviewed.
      IPRO, in future First Registration contracts, should coordinate the handover of
       documents to contractor in each District Office. Provision in the contract should
       be made for late-delivered documents. This provision should include
       compensation to the contractor for the extra work this causes.
      IPRO should ensure that future First Registration contracts impose penalty clauses
       on Contractors for multiple failures of Products, provided the failures are not
       caused by the District Offices.
      IPRO should improve the First Registration Monitoring Procedures to be more
       specific on rejection criteria when only minor issues remain.
      IPRO should complete the logical control module of ALBSREP.
      IPRO should complete its review and formalize the Bill of Quantity Instruction.
      IPRO should ensure, for future First Registration contracts, that the District
       Offices are ready for the work. An inventory of documents should be provided
       with the bid documents in order to better define scope of work and reduce risk
       and cost to project and to contractors.
      IPRO should consider a project to consolidate parcels in completed Cadastral
       Zones
      IPRO should require, for future First Registration contracts, an inspection and a
       sign-off on the Public Information Campaign Activity before proceeding.
      Higher-level coordination between IPRO and local governments is required to
       ensure their participation.
      IPRO should require in future First Registration contracts, a Technical Monitoring
       field survey report for this field survey control and a sign-off by IPRO before
       proceeding.
      IPRO should consider an intermediate payment step at the time of passing the
       field survey control.
      IPRO should ensure that future First Registration Contracts specify that the
       Registration Index Map should be correct on date of approval of Phase 1 Product.
       Contractors’ responsibility for updates ends when they complete any changes
       related to information supplied in public display.
      IPRO should amend the First Registration monitoring procedures to state that a
       Cadastral Zone Boundary confirmation is a prerequisite for commencement of
       Technical Monitoring of Phase 1 Products.
      IPRO should amend the First Registration Monitoring procedures to state that a
       certification by District Office and Contractor that the one-by-one control of



                                         55
        kartelas was completed is a prerequisite for commencement of Technical
        Monitoring.
       IPRO should amend the First Registration Monitoring Procedures to better define
        legal mistakes and technical mistakes.
       IPRO should draft Terms of Reference for District Offices and related monitoring
        procedures for IPRO to better support Public Display.
       IPRO should ensure that the Contractor’s Public Display Office staff have an
        authorization from the Contractor, with an ID Card. These staff should be pre-
        approved by IPRO, having been examined by IPRO’S technical staff for
        suitability.
       IPRO should ensure that Standard Operating Procedures for Public Display are
        refined. Staff qualifications and reduced specifications for remote zones should be
        produced.
       IPRO should ensure that all procedures have been completed. Quality Control
        should be the final process.
       IPRO should ensure that future First Registration contracts specify 15 working
        days for Phase 1 and Phase 2 product turnaround.
       IPRO should consider allowing more turnaround time for cadastral zones with a
        large number of kartelas.
       IPRO should show little tolerance for Contractors or District Office defects in
        Phase 1. Accepting of “problems” should be done with discretion. The Technical
        Monitoring Procedures for First Registration should be more specific on the
        allowable errors.
       IPRO should thoroughly investigate the District Office document issue and
        resolve it.
       In order to pay the contractors for First Phase products, they should first be
        “approved”, not “approved with problems”.

Subcomponent A.3: Development of Legal/Regulatory Framework

This sub-component supported further development of the regulatory framework and key
land policies.

   Regulations for the 2012 Law on Immovable Property Registration were not
    implemented by the end of the project. A Council of Ministers decision for data
    quality improvement was drafted and submitted for approval prior to the end of the
    project. This would have provided the broad outline of the process and authority, but
    further detailed regulations will be needed to adequately address the many issues
    faced with updating, improving and correcting the paper maps and kartelas. A set of
    General Regulations is now scheduled to be completed by May 2015.

Subcomponent A.4: Training and Capacity Building

This sub-component supported the establishment of training center, including the
provision of facilities and equipment for the training of PRO staff. The component also
supported undertaking training needs assessment to identify the current capacity and


                                          56
training needs for IPRO staff. The sub-component supported the provision of
management and technical training, including regular on-going training programs of
new legislation, regulations, and procedures, quality control, customer satisfaction, and
integrity in work place.

   IPRO capacity to support their day-to-day operations and support the World Bank
    project has been a key limiting factor in the project. This has been exacerbated by the
    disruption of political appointments and a general election when significant portions
    of IPRO staff were subsequently replaced. Training and capacity building have been
    an integral part of component A design and an external company was hired to deliver
    the training program. Unfortunately, IPRO have not embraced training into their
    corporate HR management approach and capacity remains significantly weak and will
    most likely jeopardize the sustainability of the project. Future Bank projects need to
    address capacity building in their designs.

   At the end of the project neither the coordinator of the first registration training or the
    coordinator of the IPRO training and capacity building were nominated and in
    position.

   On-line training modules were developed and integrated into the ALBSReP system.

Subcomponent A.5: Administrative and Management Support to IPRO

This sub-component financed the incremental operating costs of management and
coordination and some office equipment to enhance the project and to strengthen the
administrative and management functions in such areas as strategic planning, human
resource development planning and financial management.

   Poor project management, unwillingness to capacity build and especially inadequate
    contract management mostly caused lack of performance in Component A. More
    progress was made in the last two years of the project, but this was at the expense of
    the Bank micro managing the project on IPRO’s behalf.

   Component A suffered considerable problems in the management of the contractors
    involved in completing first registrations. The issues and disputes resolved around
    poor definition of responsibilities and performance of the client and the contractor
    within the contract; the contract was based on a civil engineering type of contract
    rather than a service contract (no technical service contract templates were available
    at the time). The client was unable to (or was unwilling to) intervene to insist on
    experienced staff listed in the bids being assigned to the project, to set thresholds on
    the quality of the first registration information acquired in the field and to set
    performance standards to complete first registrations. The contractor was unable to
    insist on timetables for IPRO district offices to provide existing documentation and
    quality assure the first registration material provided by the contractors. Neither side
    invoked penalty clauses to resolve non-performance. The fundamental issue lay in the
    lack of contract management skills within IPRO.


                                            57
   The Bank found it frustrating overseeing the procurements. Several procurements, e.g.
    the IT solution, were delayed over a number of years and it was difficult for the Bank
    to pressurize the Albanian institutes into decision-making. Potentially, better project
    governance would have been helpful.

Component B: Urban Land Management

Sub-component B.1: Municipal Land Management

The scope of the sub-component was to create regulatory plans for eight municipalities.
The criteria used to select the Municipalities to be included as beneficiaries of the project
were the following:

    a) Cities facing demographic pressure (with the population size above 50,000); and
    b) Cities with a substantial cultural significance, facing sizable development
       pressure.

The cities that met the criteria were: Tirana, Durres, Elbasan, Shkodra, Fier, Vlore, Berat,
Korca, Lushnje, Kamez, and Gjirokaster. Out of these, Tirana, Elbasan, and Fier were
not included in the support for the development of regulatory plans because they had
already either completed or secured funding for preparation of their plans. Tirana, was
excluded from the project because of its size as well as the large needs that could not be
met by the project. Therefore, the eight municipalities selected by for the development of
regulatory plans were: Durres, Shkodra, Vlore, Berat, Korca, Lushnje, Kamez, and
Gjirokaster.

Two consulting teams were contracted to support the municipalities in the creation of
their Regulatory Plans. The tenders for Package 1 (Shkodra, Kamza, Durres and Vlora)
and Package 2 (Lushnja, Berat, Gjirokaster and Korca) were both launched in late 2007.
The contract for Package 1 was signed at the end of November 2008 and the contractor
started in January 2009. Package 2 was signed at the end of July 2009 and the contractor
started in September 2009.

The Regulatory Plans were prepared between January 2009 September 2010. The new
Territorial Planning Law, supported by the Component B, was promulgated in April
2009, but the main by-laws and regulations (necessary to implement the Law) were
promulgated only in September 2011, i.e. after the completion of the Plans. This implied
that the plans prepared under the component B had to be adapted to the new legislation-
regulations and this explains why the approval of the Plans by the respective Municipal
Council and the final approval of the Plans by the National Territorial Council (NTC)
took place after the closure of Component B. The adaptation of the plans to the secondary
legislation was carried out by the Municipalities themselves through the support of NTPA
and of the USAID’s Planning and Local Governance Project (PLGP).




                                           58
The companies contracted for the two packages of Regulatory Plans had the obligation
to:

      “Enhance capacity of the planning, development control and land management
       departments of local governments involved”; and
      “Achieve professional training of municipal planning staff / officers in spatial and
       socioeconomic analysis, planning methodologies, capital investment
       programming, development and management of GIS-based planning databases
       and preparation, administration and enforcement of development control
       regulations (for example zoning, building-to-plot ratios, height limits, ground
       coverage, subdivision and building codes”.

The municipal staff were trained in planning preparation and maintenance and gained a
certain degree of capacity as well as (as demonstrated by the fact that they have
themselves adapted the plans to the new regulations with the support of NTPA and
USAID’s PLGP project). The two companies prepared Detailed Guidance Manuals for
Municipal staff intended to allow for replication of the process used to prepare the
Municipal Plans. Other municipalities have subsequently used these manuals.

The contractors also provided formal training in GIS operation to the municipalities. This
capacity building in the use of GIS was less successful with only the Municipality of
Shkodra sustaining GIS capabilities. This was primarily due to lack of GIS facilities
within the other municipalities. A consultant was subsequently hired to specify GIS
hardware and software for the municipalities, but this was abandoned during project
restructuring.

The National Territorial Council (NTC) between December 2012 and March 2014
approved seven of the Regulatory Plans. The plan for Vlore has not been approved due to
political reasons.

The key stakeholders have considered the regulatory plans a success. The methodology
adopted was a participatory approach with the ownership of citizens and the approval of
the Mayors. Other municipalities are adopting the methodology to create their Regulatory
Plans, e.g. Himara. The plans, if properly implemented, will permit the following
fundamental goals to be achieved:

      Improvement of the physical environment of the municipalities making them
       more functional, beautiful, decent, healthful, interesting, and efficient;
      Promotion of the public interest (the interest of the community at large), rather
       than the interests of individuals or special groups within the community;
      Facilitation of the democratic determination and implementation of community
       policies on physical development;
      Injection of long-range considerations into the determination of short-range
       actions.




                                         59
Most importantly, Detailed Local Plans are being derived from the Regulatory Plans in
Lsuhnja, Berat and Vlora and are being used for development control.

The preparation of a National Plan is now an obligation in the new Territorial planning
Law prepared under the Component B, but was not considered part of the scope of
Component B. However, Government of Albania has initiated the process of preparing
the General National Territorial Plan with the assistance of the USAID’s Planning and
Local Governance Project. This project is also supporting the development of e-services
around a Planning Portal.

Component B adopted national standards to support the creation of the Regulatory Plans,
including: the Decision of Council of Ministers (DCM) No. 480 “On the Approval of the
model planning regulation” September 2011 that was developed with the assistance of
USAID’s LGPA project and partially by Council of Europe; and the Decision of Council
of Ministers (DCM) No. 459 “On Common Geodetic and GIS Standards” of June 2010
prepared with the Millennium Challenge Account assistance.

In 2009 issues within the Albania Coastal Zone Management and Clean-Up Project
(ICZM) project, funded by the World Bank, triggered an update of Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Framework (LARF) to reflect the new guidelines on OP 4.12’s application
to land-use planning activities. The experience affected the LAMP with certain
components restricted and planned activities closed.

Sub-component B.2: Property Valuation and Taxation

The sub-component was to support the preparation of property valuation law and the
introduction of market value-based property taxation in the participating municipalities.
The component was also to provide the support to the equipment and training of
municipal staff in mass appraisal techniques. This sub-component was cancelled and
significantly reduced the benefits and aims of the original project.

Sub-component B.3: Formulation of Urban Land Management Regulations.

The sub-component aimed at financing the preparation, through consultative processes
and public hearings, of the urban law and of key implementing regulations.

Results on the Urban Law: After almost three years’ of a consultative and public
hearing process, the draft of the Territorial Planning Law was submitted to the Parliament
in January 2009, thus meeting one of the project covenants (although with approx. 15
month delay). The stipulated covenant was: The Government will submit a revised urban
law to parliament no later than September 30, 2007). The Law was promulgated on 23rd
April 2009 (Law no. 10119, “on Territorial Planning”) and introduced into Albania the
principles, terms and procedures that characterize the current mainstream contemporary
planning and land management systems around the world. The law requires all local
government units to be equipped with a territorial plan. The law aims to guide spatial
development and to implement the concept of sustainable development and territorial



                                         60
planning by considering all the components of the territory. The law also provides several
land management instruments to support its implementation, such as: the Transfer of
Development Rights (TDR), construction intensity program, Local Detailed Plan (LDP),
etc. The purpose of this law is not only to better plan a more sustainable development of
the territory, but also to decentralize decision-making: it transfers decision making, which
includes the drafting and the approval of the local planning instruments, from central to
local governments. Under the new law local governments can give development
permission if they have the planning instruments in place that are stipulated in place and
in line with the planning law. The implementation of the new planning law marks a new
era in Albania. Thus the result has been fully achieved (although with delays).

Results on Key Implementing Regulations (Secondary legislation): Drafting of
secondary legislation experienced delays due to the fact that the process could not be
started before the promulgation of the Law on Territorial Planning (April 2009). The
project identified the precise set of priority secondary legislation needed to fully
implement the law (Secondary legislation on the National Planning Agency, the Planning
Register, and Uniform and Model regulation). A first important result was achieved in
November 2009 with the establishment of the National Territorial Planning Agency
(NTPA) through the Decision of the Council of Ministers (DCM) dated 13.11.2009, “On
Manner of Organization and Functioning of National Territorial Planning Agency
(NTPA)” and in March 2010 with the appointment of the General Director. However
several other pieces of secondary legislation were still necessary, including the uniform
planning regulations (Article 24), the model regulations (Article 88), the uniform
development control regulations (Article 62), and the sub-legal acts regarding the
planning register (Article 55). The priority secondary legislation generated strong
interests from various donors including USAID and the Council of Europe (COE). In
April 2010, the Bank office in Tirana hosted a meeting organized by the Director of the
NTPA in which several donors offered to support the Government’s efforts. The Bank
agreed to remain engaged in providing guidance to the Government, but committed to
doing so through Bank consultants in an advisory role. As a result of these joint efforts
the following secondary legislation was promulgated:

      DCM No. 460 “On the Organization and Functioning of Territorial Planning
       Register” (June 2010) with the Millennium Challenge Account (MCA) assistance
      DCM No. 459 “On Common Geodetic and GIS Standards” (June 2010) also with
       the MCA assistance;
      DCM no 480 (Approved in September 2011 and revised in June 2012), “On the
       Approval of the model planning regulation” with the assistance of USAID’s
       LGPA project and partially by Council of Europe;
       DCM no. 481 (approved in September 2011 and revised in June 2012), “On the
       Approval of the uniform regulation of planning instruments” with the assistance
       of USAID’s LGPA project and partially by COE;
      DCM no. 502 (July 2011), “On the approval of the uniform regulation on
       development control” with the assistance of USAID’s LGPA project and partially
       by COE;



                                          61
      Technical Planning Manual (in Albania) financed by the World Bank (prepared
       in 2011 and published in early 2012);
      Citizens Planning Manual Financed by the World Bank (prepared in 2011 and
       published in early 2012).

Thus even this result (although with long delays) was achieved. The approved secondary
legislation will also permit to align Albania with EU standards and regulations.

Sub-component B.4: Training

The sub-component aimed at providing training to the municipal staff in land use
planning and development control, and to cover costs of study tours. Under this sub-
component, a study tour was carried out in 2009 to the Netherlands and France on the
implementation of the INSPIRE directive, on the National Spatial Data Infrastructure and
on the municipal spatial informational management. A series of ToRs were prepared at
the end of 2009 for training activities with key professional staff in each of the
municipalities as well as planning professionals at the Government on the overall process
of urban planning, the use of GIS, the preparation and updating on urban plans and their
administration through the application of development approval processes, but the
MPWTT never launched the relevant tenders. Thus, upon restructuring in April 2010, this
sub-component was cancelled and the remaining balance of funds was reallocated to
Component D

Sub-components B.5: Support to the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Telecommunication

This project was to support the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Telecommunication to coordinate component B activities. The financing was also to
provide: (i) capacity building in monitoring of compliance with regulatory plans; and
(ii) incremental operating cost of project coordination team, including contractors' costs.

This sub-component was cancelled and significantly reduced the capacity to monitor the
compliance with regulation plans. The impact of this is seen around Albania where many
buildings are built higher and wider compared to their specifications approved in their
planning application.




Component C: Municipal Infrastructure

Component C.1: Municipal Infrastructure




                                          62
The component prioritized the implementation of selected municipal infrastructure
investments and services to enable proactive urban growth management and to enhance
urban land market efficiency.

At the time of project restructuring, component C only had four municipalities out of 10
that had prepared and submitted their recommendations to award civil works contracts;
this has taken more than two years since Project inception. It was therefore agreed that
the funds not claimed by emergency needs in Component D would be committed to these
municipal infrastructure packages that were ready for contracting. Four of the Phase I
municipal packages had been submitted to the Bank for review out of ten, namely those
of Berat, Elbassan, Kamza, and Shkodra. This represented a commitment of an estimated
$1.6 million. It was also agreed that Phase II municipal investments, which had not been
started would be cancelled.

Component C, Municipal Infrastructure, successfully implemented four phase 1
municipal infrastructure projects to stimulate economic development. This was primarily
due to lack of capacity within the municipalities to define and mange these infrastructure
projects. This was a much smaller set of projects than originally designed in the PAD and
had much less economic and social impact in these cities. Only one of the four phase 1
municipal infrastructure projects implemented under the LAMP project did potentially
trigger economic developments – this was the building of a market. This component
failed to deliver its objectives and associated benefits of enabling proactive urban growth
management and enhancing urban land market efficiency

Component C.2: Implementation of Address System

After project restructuring, Street Addressing System phase I (physical signage) was
retained within Component C for 13 municipalities. However, the second phase (data
collection) was cancelled.

Addressing and signage projects in 13 cities were completed by the end of 2011. A
further eight cities would have been included in the addressing and signage project, but
the procurement was abandoned due to the late delivery of bid documents.

Address databases for 13 cities were also produced. These databases have not been
maintained due to lack of capacity within the municipalities. However, the Ministry of
Interior is initiating a nationwide project to integrate addresses with the Civil Register.
This project will use the address databases produced by Component C and ensure their
maintenance. Street addresses will increasingly be used across Albania to support local
property tax administration, collection for municipal services and efficient service
delivery.

Component C.3: Procurement and Financial Management Training for the
Municipalities




                                          63
To ensure good practice in implementing infrastructure investments, this sub-component
financed training for municipal staff on fiduciary aspects, including procurement and
financial management.

Training on ‘World Bank Procurement Methods’ as ell as ‘Financial Management’ for
municipal staff was completed and training of the trainers for ‘City Capital Investments
Planning was also completed. Training on ‘Capacity Building’ was not developed. This
was not an effective activity due to the low number of participants.

Component C.4: Component Management

This sub-component financed the management costs of the Ministry of Interior to manage
this component.

Component D: Emergency Response to Flooding

This component finan ced emergency reconstruction and minor works and equipment
supply to Shkoder and Lezhe Prefectures, which were affected by intensive flooding
during the period of January - March 2009, and again in November - December 2010.
The investments were reviewed by a Bank-financed Hydrologist and determined to be
critical and necessary to restore essential services without any significant and
irreversible adverse environmental or social impacts. The activities included financing
of drainage and water supply pumps that enabled the restoration of vital physical
assets, many of which were operating at 50% capacity or completely out of commission
due to damages incurred during the flooding. Supply of water testing equipment for
water utilities serving the affected areas was also financed to ensure water supplied to
residents in the affected areas was safe for consumption. Rehabilitation and linkage of
an existing storm water collection network in Shkoder City enabled the city to
withstand or mitigate the damages from future heavy rain and flood events. Technical
assistance was also provided under this component to develop a more comprehensive
view of the flooding problem and flood management, with a view towards meeting the
EU Water Framework Directive and Floods Directive over time. This support
included analysis of flood impacts, mapping, collection of critical data, and the
provision of technical support to improve flood management capacity and development of
longer-term flood protection strategies.

Project funds were reallocated. Component A remained intact. Component B was
scaled back and closed out by March 31, 2011, and its remaining financing ($0.43
million equivalent) was reallocated to the new Component D. Component C was
scaled back and approximately $12.21 million equivalent reallocated to Component D.

Component D was carried out by the General Directorate for Water Supply and
Sanitation (GDWSS) at MPWTT and the Ministry of Agriculture in partnership with the
Local Water Authorities and Drainage Authorities who were the direct beneficiaries.
However, the primary target audience was 150,000 citizens and businesses at risk through
flooding in the north of Albania.



                                        64
A civil emergency taskforce was established with Deputy Prime Minister in charge.
Drainage and Water Authorities submitted proposals for projects (preliminary designs
and budgets provided by consultants) and the taskforce decided on a list of projects to be
included in Component D. The designs of the selected projects were reviewed and 8 sub-
projects were created that were to be split into 10 contracts:

        1.   Shkoder City stormwater drainage network (3 component contracts)
        2.   Cas drainage pumping station
        3.   Veliopja drainage pumping station
        4.   Tale drainage pumping station
        5.   Trush water supply pumping stations
        6.   Bahcellek water supply pumping stations
        7.   Dobrac water supply pumping stations
        8.   Shkoder Water testing equipment

As well as having a dedicated PIU reporting to General Directorate for Water Supply and
Sanitation (GDWSS) at MPWTT, Component D also used contracted consultants to
perform contract management and supervise the contractors implementing the water and
drainage pumping stations. The contract managers provided adequate (although slow)
information on implementation progress.

The Emergency Response project successfully constructed 4 water pumping stations
and 3 drainage pumping stations in Shkoder and Lezhe Prefectures since they were last
affected by flooding in November-December 2010. One drainage pumping station has not
been installed within the project duration due to procurement and pump delivery delays.
However, the efficiency of the existing station has been considerable improved, lowering the
risk of flooding. Although most the objectives of this project component have been achieved,
it should be highlighted that several of these emergency solutions have been completed
towards the end of the project; over three years after the last major flood. It has been fortunate
that major floods have not occurred in the intervening years! These project delays centered on
procurement issues despite the emergency nature of the project.

The water testing equipment was never installed in Shkoder.

The most problematic activity within the project was procurement. The evaluation
committee took a long time to be established. The smaller contracts (< US$1M) were
carried out under emergency procurement rules and they were fast and successful.
However, larger contracts were significantly delayed in procurement. The Albanian
government procurement rules, enforced through the State Supreme Audit, ensure that
the lowest bidder wins. This sometimes resulted in ‘non-qualified’ companies winning.
For example, a company bid US$ 2 million for a pumping station contract with an
estimated budget of US$ 3.6 million and the cost of the pumps directly from the supplier
was greater than that quoted by the bidder. The Bank had a dispute with the evaluation
committee over whether companies complied with criteria of the evaluation (6 months to




                                             65
resolve). The Bank intervened and proposed that the evaluation team visit the company in
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to carry out further due diligence.

Ironically, one of the projects, Trush water supply pumping station, was delayed due to
citizens claiming that the land used to support the project was private rather than public.
Prior to the project being initiated, the PIU had checked the ownership status with the
local mayor and the IPRO and it was confirmed to be public. However, citizens
subsequently claimed ownership through the courts. On further checking with IPRO, two
conflicting certificates were identified: one indicating public ownership and the other
private ownership. The implementing agency bought the land rather than adopting a
lengthy expropriation route with adjudication and approval by the Council of Ministers.
This process happened after the project closure on the June 30, 2014 so the project
activities of asphalting and the area around the facility was removed from component D.
This land ownership problem highlighted the lack of joined up information across the
three land agencies: IPRO, ALUIZNI and Commission for Restitution and Compensation.

The major capital projects in flood protection schemes to the north of Albania were
implemented with no follow-on maintenance contracts, although training, manuals and
some spares were provided by the contractor to the government custodians. There was no
clarity on the budgets allocated for this maintenance. In April 2014, the government was
considering dividing the maintenance and dredging responsibilities between the Ministry
of Agriculture (strategic infrastructure assets) and local government (the rest of the
assets). However, in September 2014, the government is now considering consolidating
all maintenance and dredging responsibilities under the Drainage Boards This lack of
maintenance strategy and associated budgets leaves these assets at risk.

Component D, Emergency Response, did implement the required water and drainage
infrastructure except for one drainage pumping station. However, the delays of two years
in implementing the solutions significantly exposed the local population to the risk of
flooding. The weather was kind to the project.

Final payments to the contractors will be made at the end of October 2014 once the snag
list of repairs has been completed. If the repairs are not implemented then the
performance guarantee will be used.

The Government of Albania has made budget provision (US$1.25 million) with the
Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for installing new pumps at the drainage
pumping station at Cas where the pumps were upgraded rather than replaced under
Component D. The Government of Albania has selected the same contractor as they have
now obtained a letter of credit following payment of invoices. The same supervision
consultant has been retained. The pumps will be purchased and incrementally installed
before the next winter season; although this will be weather dependent. The difference in
advance payment to the contractor will be returned to the World Bank. This investment
by the Government of Albania will eliminate any lingering reputational risk to the World
Bank.




                                          66
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1. Introduction

The Albania Land Administration and Management Project has the following project
development objective: (a) to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land
administration and management through enhanced tenure security and improved urban
planning;12 and (b) to rebuild the physical assets and restore essential services in flood
affected areas as an emergency response to the devastating floods in 2010 in specific
municipalities in Albania.13

The project had four components. Component A—Security of tenure and registration of
property rights—aimed to complete the first registration of 400,000 properties,14 which
would bring economic benefits to Albania in the form of security of tenure, which in turn
is linked with property market development and increased investment in the economy.
The land administration IT system developed under Component A would increase
transparency and efficiency of the property market.

Component B—Urban Management—was designed to create and implement 8 municipal
territorial plans to improve land use profiles and municipalities’ capacity to plan for
future infrastructure projects in the most optimal manner. Overall, it would improve the
planning and development of target areas resulting in an increase in property prices that
would benefit property owners.

Component C—Municipal Infrastructure Investments—aimed to finance infrastructure
projects to enable proactive urban growth management and enhance land market
efficiency. The main benefit of these investments comes in the form of direct job creation
through improved road works that increase accessibility and mobility significantly to
underdeveloped points in the city.

Component D—Emergency Response to Floods—was designed as a response to the 2010
flash floods that affected northwestern Albania. Component D activities included
financing of drainage and water supply pumps that enabled the restoration of vital
physical assets, many of which were operating at 50% capacity or completely out of
commission due to damages incurred because of the floods. The main benefit from




12
     Original PDO.

13
     Additional PDO added at the time of project restructuring in 2011.

14
  Original target as per project appraisal document was 500,000 but was revised down to 400,000 due to
project delays and other circumstances as deemed appropriate during restructuring in 2011.



                                                    67
Component D is estimated as potential future savings (or averted economic losses) that
are possible due to these drainage pumps that were built.
This annex evaluates the project’s performance against the goals it set. It first starts with
a section on market conditions to lay the broader context of project development. Next,
the annex presents a benefit analysis listing all relevant assumptions. The annex notes the
following six benefits:

 SNo.   Economic/Financial Benefit                                Relevant Component
 1.     Residential Property Market Development                   Components A (security of tenure)
                                                                  and B
 2.     MSME Development                                          Components A and B
 3.     E-governance Productivity Gains                           Component    A     (IT      system
                                                                  development)
 4.     Fiscal Savings from IPRO Self-Financing                   Component     A      (institutional
                                                                  development)
 5.     Savings from municipal infrastructure development         Component C
 6.     Potential future savings from emergency response          Component D

Assuming a 10 percent discount rate, the resultant net present value (NPV) from the
aforementioned analysis is estimated at US$ 12.82 million and the internal rate of
return (IRR) is estimated at 22.9 percent.

It is important to note that the analysis presented in this annex is not directly comparable
with the analysis presented in the PAD and Restructuring Paper because those analyses
were limited. Component A analysis in the PAD looked only at the effects of property
market development but not at gains from productivity through the IT system
development or fiscal impact like increased property tax revenue through more
registrations and reduced spending due to IPRO’s self-financing structure. The
Component A analysis in the ICR is much broader and addresses these gaps from the
PAD. Similarly, the PAD did not have any quantitative analysis for Component B
whereas this has been incorporated in the ICR analysis. Component C analysis presented
in the PAD has been successfully replicated in the ICR. Finally, the restructuring paper
(2011) did not attempt to quantify the benefits from Component D whereas this has been
done in the ICR.

Even though, the NPV and IRR figures presented in the PAD, restructuring paper, and
ICR are not comparable, the table below provides a summary of the analysis:

                                                        Restructuring
                                 PAD                                         ICR
                                                        Paper
 Net Present Value (US$ M) at    Comp. A: 18.29
                                                        Comp A: 5.99         All components: 12.82
 10% discount rate               Comp. C: 7.27
 Internal Rate of Return (%)     Comp. A: 23%
                                                        Comp A: 15%          All components: 22.9%
                                 Comp. C: 20%

2. Market Conditions

To properly understand the project’s effects and results it is important to first outline the
regional and global context that this project took place in. The duration of the project


                                              68
coincided with the worst global financial crisis in the last several decades. At the same
time, the European Union also experienced its own economic and political problems as
several of the original 12 EU countries saw themselves in deep fiscal indebtedness
coupled with economic slowdown and high unemployment.

Global Financial Crisis in the Regional Context
The global financial crisis started in 2008 and the American and many EU economies
went into recession. The slowing demand from the west had adverse effects on the
economies of the Western Balkans. While most economies in the Balkans contracted
between 2008 and 2009, Albania (and Kosovo) held steady, and even experienced slight
growth between 2009 and 2010. This can be explained by the relative isolation of the
Albanian economy, the lack of financial interconnectedness with American and Western
European banks, and an underdeveloped mortgage market. Even though Albania has
averted recession, its GDP has continued to decline since 2010. This can be best
explained by weak domestic demand, loss of investor confidence, and the delayed effects
of the Eurozone crisis (see figure below).15

                            GDP Growth in the Western Balkans (%)
 6.0%

                                3.8%
 4.0%         3.3%                                3.1%

 2.0%                                                             1.3%
                                                                                  0.7%

 0.0%
             2009               2010              2011            2012            2013
 ‐2.0%

 ‐4.0%

 ‐6.0%

 ‐8.0%

          Albania    Bosnia & Herzegovina   FYR Macedonia   Montenegro   Serbia     Kosovo



3. Economic and Financial Analysis by Category

This section presents the various project benefits detailing the economic rationale behind
each and providing key assumptions for the calculation of the benefits. All benefits are
calculated from the year when the project activity began till 2020, which is assumed as




15
   EU Commission’s overview and country assessment,
http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/publications/occasional_paper/2013/pdf/ocp158_en
.pdf



                                             69
the end of the implementation period. This was assumed to take a 15-year view on project
results so all benefits can be sufficiently captured.

3.1    Residential Property Market Development

Rationale for benefit: The rationale for benefit to the residential property market comes
from two channels—(1) security of tenure (Component A) and (2) improved urban
planning (Component B).

The objective of the first registration subcomponent of Component A was to complete
first registration in targeted areas. The original project target was set to 500,000
properties, which was later reduced to 400,000 properties with the restructuring in 2011.
The economic benefit from security of tenure comes from the fact that owners are more
likely to invest in and develop a secure property and that the size of their investment is
likely to be larger. A secure property can also be used as collateral to obtain mortgage
and other loans. A property rights certificate also increases the liquidity of the property
since it can be more easily and confidently transacted on the market. Due to these reasons,
a secure property becomes more valuable. Overall, security of tenure allows for real
estate market development through an appreciation in property prices and increased
number of transactions.

The objective of Component B was to improve urban planning in select municipalities.
Urban planning allows for improved access to city/municipal facilities and also tends to
increase the values of properties in targeted areas.

Key Assumptions: The model for residential property market development takes into
account the unregistered property stock of 400,000 properties (project target). 99% of
these properties are assumed to be residential. Below are the key assumptions for the
‘without’ and ‘with’ project scenarios.

Without Project: A market turnover (value of market transactions) is estimated assuming
an average property price of LEK 2.4 million (US$ 24,000) and a market turnover of total
market transactions equaling 3% of unregistered property tax. The average property price
assumed is the same as in the PAD and is a very conservative assumption as property
values between 2006 and 2014 are much higher. The assumption for total market
transactions as 3% of unregistered property stock is the same as in the PAD.

With Project: The ‘with project’ analysis is split into two parts—one for properties
registered in IPRO and one for properties not registered in IPRO. The number of
properties registered in IPRO is the actual data provided by IPRO and equals 357,383 as
of June 30, 2014. While the first registration of 400,000 properties is expected to be
completed shortly, the model assumes that only 357,383 properties were registered for
the model period (2014-2020). The number of properties not registered in IPRO is simply
number of registered properties subtracted from the unregistered property stock.




                                          70
For properties registered in IPRO, the total number of market transactions is assumed as
1.5% higher than the 3% in the without project scenario. This increase is compounded
year after year from 2011 (when the first properties were registered) till 2020 (the end of
the model period) to indicate an increase in the number of transactions due to secure
tenure. The average property price as a result of the project is assumed 4% higher than
the ‘without project’ assumption of LEK 2.4 million (US$ 24,000). This 4% is split into
3% increase in price from security of tenure and 1% from improved urban planning.16
Note that to remain conservative regarding property price increases as a result of the
project, this 4% is not compounded over the model period till 2020. Therefore, it is a one-
time increase in property price from LEK 2.4 million (US$ 24,000) to LEK 2.49 million
(US$ 24,960). A market turnover is calculated by multiplying the increased number of
transactions with the increased average property price.

For properties not registered in IPRO, there is no increase in the number of transactions
because there is no security of tenure benefits till properties are registered in IPRO. As of
the increase in property price, only the 1% increase from improved urban planning is
applied. Once again, this increase of 1% is not compounded over the model period till
2020. Therefore, it is a one-time increase in property price from LEK 2.4 million
(US$ 24,000) to LEK 2.42 million (US$ 24,240). A market turnover is calculated by
multiplying the increased number of transactions with the increased average property
price.

The total with project market turnover is the sum of market turnover for properties
registered in IPRO and market turnover for properties not registered in IPRO.

Project Gains: The incremental market turnover is calculated by subtracting the ‘without
project’ estimated market turnover from the ‘with project’ estimated market turnover.
The project gain is quantified at 6% capital gains over this incremental market turnover.
The 6% assumption is the same as in the PAD and quantifies the net benefit to transacting
parties.

The cumulative benefit for residential property market development from 2008 to
2020 is US$ 18.55 million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.

3.2    MSME Market Development

Rationale for benefit: Micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSME) can use their
secure property titles to get business loans from commercial banks and grow their
business. With this in mind, security of property rights enables MSME market
development leading to more businesses that create jobs. This benefit is different from



16
  Note, the 3% increase is applied from 2011 when the first properties were registered till
2020 (end of model period). The 1% increase is applied from 2008 when urban plans
began to be developed till 2020 (end of model period).



                                           71
increased market turnover as it is assumed that the owner intends to use his/her property
to secure a loan rather than sell it on the market.

Key Assumptions: The model for MSME market development takes into account the
same unregistered property stock of 400,000 properties (project target). 1% of these
properties is assumed to be MSME (remainder from 99% that is assumed to be residential
as will undergo transactions). This is a very conservative assumption given that the
ground floor of most properties in Albania is typically a small business. In this case, the
model looks at credit injection due to commercial bank loans extended to MSMEs. Below
are the key assumptions for the ‘without’ and ‘with’ project scenarios.

Without Project: The credit injection for MSMEs in the ‘without project’ scenario is
estimated by multiplying the total number of MSMEs (1% of unregistered property stock),
the average property value (LEK 2.4 million or US$ 24,000), and a loan-to-value ratio of
50% for unregistered properties.

With Project: The ‘with project’ analysis is split into two parts—one for properties
registered in IPRO and one for properties not registered in IPRO.

For properties registered in IPRO, the credit injection for MSMEs is estimated by
multiplying the total number of MSMEs (1% of properties registered in IPRO), the
average property value including the 4% increase coming from security of tenure and
improved urban planning (LEK 2.49 million or US$ 24,960), and a loan-to-value ratio of
55% for registered properties that are more secure. The loan-to-value ratio is on account
of commercial banks being use the secure property as collateral. Normally, the difference
between loan-to-value ratios for unregistered and registered properties is even greater
because commercial banks typically do not lend without secure property rights
certificates. However, only a five percentage point difference is assumed in this model to
be conservative.

For properties not registered in IPRO, the credit injection for MSMEs is estimated by
multiplying the total number of MSMEs (1% of properties not registered in IPRO), the
average property value including the 1% increase coming from improved urban planning
(LEK 2.42 million or US$ 24,240), and a loan-to-value ratio of 50% for unregistered
properties.

The total credit injection for the ‘with project’ scenario is the sum of the estimates for
credit injection for MSMEs registered in IPRO and MSMEs not registered in IPRO.

Project Gains: The incremental credit is calculated by subtracting the ‘without project’
estimated credit injection from the ‘with project’ estimated credit. This is the new credit
in the market available to MSMEs as a result of the project.

The cumulative benefit for MSME development from 2011 to 2020 is US$ 47.88
million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.




                                          72
3.3    E-governance Productivity Gains

Rationale for benefit: The land administration IT system (ALBSREP) established in all
IPRO offices will improve the service delivery, efficiency, and transparency of IPRO
transactions as well as improve the data quality and maintenance of maps and ownership
data in Albania. While it is difficult to quantify all these benefits, the model attempts to
quantify productivity gains for IPRO customers. The idea behind productivity gains is
that the more efficient the IPRO transaction system, the less time IPRO customers have
to spend in line and wait for a transaction to be processed.

For simplicity, the model assumes that as a result of the IT system in all offices, each
IPRO customer saves half a day compared to the transaction time before the project. This
is again a conservative assumption since the improved efficiency is greater than half a
day. Assuming a LEK 35,000 (US$ 350) monthly wage and 22 working days per month,
the daily wage is estimated at LEK 1,591 (US$ 15.91). Half of this—or LEK 795
(US$ 7.95)—is estimated as a half day’s productivity gain for each transaction as IPRO
customers no longer have to be away from their respective jobs to make the transaction.

Below are the key assumptions for the ‘without’ and ‘with’ project scenarios.

Without Project: Since e-governance led productivity gains would not have taken place
without the project, the ‘without project benefits’ to the Albanian economy are nil. As a
result, the ‘with project’ gains are the same as project gains in this case.

With Project: The total productivity gains with project are estimated by multiplying the
per transaction productivity gain of a half day’s wage (LEK 795 or US$ 7.95) with the
number of transactions for properties registered in IPRO as they are the only ones that
were improved by the IT system. For details on the exact number of transactions, see
residential property market development.

The cumulative benefit for e-governance productivity gains from 2013 to 2020 is
US$ 0.68 million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.

3.4    Fiscal Savings from IPRO Self-Financing

Rationale for benefit: An important element of the strategic business planning
subcomponent of Component A was the transformation of IPRO from a state-budget to a
self-financing entity so it would no longer depend on government funds. This not only
reduces government spending but also releases public funds for other important public
services like education and health.

Key Assumptions: Below are the key assumptions for the ‘without’ and ‘with’ project
scenarios for the fiscal savings from IPRO self-financing.

Without Project: Since fiscal savings from IPRO self-financing would not have taken
place without the project, the ‘without project benefits’ to the Albanian economy are nil.
As a result, the ‘with project’ gains are the same as project gains in this case.


                                          73
With Project: To calculate the potential fiscal savings from IPRO self-financing, the
model uses actual IPRO budget data for 2008 to 2014 and IPRO forecasted budget for
2015 and 2016. For the remainder of the model period, 2017 to 2020, it is assumed that
the budget grows at 1% annually. This is a conservative assumption considering the
IPRO budget’s growth rate for both actuals and forecasts is higher. The potential savings
from the self-financing structure are estimated at 20% of the total IPRO budget between
years 201317 (when IPRO became a self-financing agency) to 2020 (the end of the model
period). The 20% assumption indicates that only a fifth of the self-financing capacity is
attributed to project activities.

The cumulative benefit for fiscal savings from IPRO self-financing from 2013 to
2020 is US$ 12.63 million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.

3.5     Benefits from Municipal Infrastructure Development

Rationale for benefit: The aim of the municipal investments under Component C was to
finance infrastructure projects that would enable proactive urban growth management and
enhance land market efficiency for the targeted municipalities. Even though the
restructuring substantially reduced the scope of Component C, all four municipalities saw
improvements as a result of Component C activities. The main benefit of these
investments comes in the form of direct job creation through improved road works that
increase accessibility and mobility significantly to underdeveloped points in the
municipality. As urban economics research and literature point out, “if a spatial mismatch
exists, then accessibility should influence how long it takes to find a job.”18 In this way,
Component C activities helped to reduce the spatial mismatch issues.

While it is difficult to quantify the exact number of jobs created in such a way, the model
here assumes annual cost savings per vehicle to estimate the quantitative impact of
benefits from municipal infrastructure development. The concept behind this model is the
same as the one presented in the PAD. However, the PAD did a cost-benefit analysis
whereas the ICR looks at benefit projections for each component and then calculates an
overall NPV and IRR for the project. These details are presented later in this section.

Key Assumptions: Below are the key assumptions for the ‘without’ and ‘with’ project
scenarios for benefits from municipal infrastructure development.



17
  Note that for 2013, only 9 months of the full year budget are assumed to contribute to
savings. This is because IPRO became self-financing on April 1, 2013 and therefore
savings were limited to the 9 months from April to December.
18
  “The geography of joblessness,” The Economist, October 25, 2014,
http://www.economist.com/news/finance-and-economics/21627628-difficulty-people-have-getting-jobs-
makes-unemployment-unnecessarily



                                              74
Without Project: Since these benefits from municipal infrastructure development would
not have taken place without the project, the ‘without project benefits’ to the Albanian
economy are nil. As a result, the ‘with project’ gains are the same as project gains in this
case.

With Project: The PAD assumed the total number of registered vehicles in Albania to be
200,000. Even though the number of vehicles in Albania has more than doubled, the ICR
assumes the same 200,000 vehicles to be conservative. Of these vehicles, the PAD
assumed 20,000 vehicles (or 10% of total) were from the originally targeted
municipalities. This amounted to approximately 2,000 vehicles per targeted municipality.
Of these originally targeted municipalities, Component C activities were completed in
only 4 municipalities—Elbasan, Shkodra, Berat, and Kamza. Given this information and
an assumption of 2,000 vehicles per municipality, the total number of vehicles in these 4
municipalities where Component C work was completed is estimated at 8,000 vehicles.
Note that this is a conservative assumption considering that Elbasan and Shkodra are in
the top five largest municipalities by population. Of these 8,000 vehicles, the ICR model
assumes that only 50% benefit from Component C activities. This is to account for the
fact that Component C financed construction in strategic—but not all—areas of the
municipalities.

The vehicle operating cost is assumed at LEK 10 per kilometer (US$ 0.01 per kilometer)
in both the PAD and the ICR. Assuming 1,825 kilometers travelled per vehicle per year
(specifically 5 kms per day for 365 days a year), the annual savings are estimated at
US$ 182.5 per vehicle.

Furthermore, since it takes time to build all the infrastructure, the model assumes only a
5% realized benefit in 2009, which steadily increases to 100% by 2013 and continues at
the 100% level until the end of the implementation period in 2020.

The total annual savings from Component C are calculated as number of vehicles
multiplied by annual savings per vehicle and the percentage of realized benefits.

The cumulative benefit for municipal infrastructure development from 2009 to 2020
is US$ 7.67 million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.

3.6    Potential Future Savings from Emergency Response

Rationale for benefit: Due to severe flash floods in 2010 in the Shkodra and Lezhe
regions, the project added a new component on Emergency Response (Component D).
Under this component, critical flood prevention and repair works were undertaken that
financed emergency reconstruction and minor works as well as equipment supply to the
affected prefectures. Component D activities included financing of drainage and water
supply pumps that enabled the restoration of vital physical assets, many of which were
operating at 50% capacity or completely out of commission due to damages incurred due
to the floods. The main benefit from Component D is estimated as potential future
savings that are possible due to the drainage pumps that were built.



                                          75
Key Assumptions: Below are the key assumptions for the ‘without’ and ‘with’ project
scenarios for potential future savings from emergency response.

Without Project: Since potential future savings from emergency response would not have
taken place without the project, the ‘without project benefits’ to the Albanian economy
are nil. As a result, the ‘with project’ gains are the same as project gains in this case.

With Project: According to the CIMA foundation 72% of economic losses due to natural
disasters in Albania are specifically due to hydrological events. In 2010, the economic
losses reached an 80-year peak at 4,040 million LEK or US$ 38.9 million dollars, most of
which was concentrated in Shkodra. 19 The model assumes that the economic loss
attached to any future floods over the model period till 2020 is US$ 3.89 million or one
tenth of the damage caused during the 2010 floods. In other words, the presence of
drainage pumps can prevent an annual economic loss of up to US$ 3.89 million. Given
that Albania has been affected by floods nine times in the last twenty years, the chance of
flood in any given year is assumed at 45%. Finally, drainage pump capacity for loss
prevention is assumed to vary by year. In 2012 when the work began, the capacity is
assumed at 0% and increases to 100% by 2015 when all construction work is expected to
be completed. Thereafter, it stays at 100% till 2017 before declining again by 5
percentage points each year till the end of the model period in 2020. The potential future
savings from emergency response are therefore calculated as annual economic loss
averted multiplied by the chance of floods and the drainage pump capacity.

The cumulative benefit for emergency response to the floods from 2013 to 2020 is
US$ 11.29 million. See the last page of Annex 3 for year-on-year details.

4. Summary

The project benefits for the Albania Land Administration and Management Project come
from seven channels: residential property market development, MSME development,
productivity gains from e-governance, fiscal revenue gains from property taxation, fiscal
savings from IPRO self-financing, municipal infrastructure development, and potential
future savings from emergency response.

Over the life of the project from when each component activity began till the end of the
implementation period in 2020, the cumulative project gain is shown in the chart below:




19
   Historical Collection of Disaster Loss Data in Albania,
http://www.preventionweb.net/files/36736_historicalcollectionofdisasterlossd.pdf



                                          76
      US$ M                   $98.70 Million in Cumulative Project Benefits Till 2020
     60



     50           47.9



     40



     30



     20                             18.6

                                                        12.6
                                                                           11.3
     10                                                                                       7.7


                                                                                                                 0.7
      0
          MSME Development Residential Property Fiscal Savings from   Potential Future   Benefits from      E‐governance
                                 Market         IPRO Self‐Financing    Savings from        Municipal      Productivity Gains
                              Development                               Emergency        Infrastructure
                                                                         Response        Development
 % of Total Project 
                     48.5%          18.8%             12.8%                11.4%             7.8%               0.7%
 Benefits




The cumulative project benefits till 2020 amount to US$ 101.2 million. Assuming a 10
percent discount rate, project NPV is estimated at US$ 12.82 million and project
IRR is estimated at 22.9%.

A detailed table of results is presented below:




                                                           77
                                             Original project period                     Restructured project period                           Operational Period

                                           Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4   Year 5     Year 6    Year 7   Year 8   Year 9 Year 10 Year 11 Year 12 Year 13 Year 14 Year 15
                                            2006     2007     2008      2009     2010        2011     2012     2013     2014     2015    2016      2017    2018      2019    2020

Project  Benefit by Category      Unit    2006      2007     2008      2009     2010       2011      2012     2013     2014     2015    2016     2017     2018      2019    2020

Residential Property Market 
                                  USD M      0.00     0.00     0.17      0.17     0.17       0.17      0.40     0.78     1.61    1.86    2.12      2.38     2.64     2.91    3.18
Development

MSME Development                  USD M      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.01      1.48     3.16     6.18    6.18    6.18      6.18     6.18     6.18    6.18


E‐governance Productivity Gains   USD M      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.02     0.09    0.09    0.09      0.09     0.10     0.10    0.10

Fiscal Savings  from 
                                  USD M      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.99     1.59    1.62    1.65      1.67     1.69     1.70    1.72
IPRO Self‐Financing
Benefits  from Municipal 
                                  USD M      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.04     0.19       0.38      0.58     0.78     0.79    0.80    0.81      0.81     0.82     0.83    0.84
Infrastructure Development
Potential Future Savings  from 
                                  USD M      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.44     0.88    1.75    1.75      1.75     1.66     1.58    1.49
Emergency Response

Total Project Benefit             USD M      0.00     0.00     0.17      0.21     0.36       0.56      2.46     6.17    11.12   12.29   12.60     12.88    13.08    13.29   13.50

Total Project Cost 
                                  USD M      0.00     0.00    ‐0.25     ‐1.27    ‐5.49       ‐8.40   ‐15.36    ‐7.60     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
(Loan Disbursements)

Net Cash Flow                     USD M      0.00     0.00    ‐0.08     ‐1.06    ‐5.13       ‐7.84   ‐12.90    ‐1.43    11.12   12.29   12.60     12.88    13.08    13.29   13.50


Discount Rate                      %         10%

NPV                               USD M     12.82
IRR                                %       22.9%




                                                                                78
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


                                                                              Responsibility/
              Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Wael Zakout                 Manager                                EASR2   TTL
Olav Rex Christensen        Senior Public Finance Specialist       HDNED   Public Finance
Alia M. El Moubayed         Senior Economist                       ECSPE   Economist
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu      Senior Environmental Engineer          EASER   Environment
Ibrahim Hackaj              Consultant                             ECSUW   Agriculture
Toru Konishi                Senior Economist                       SASDA   Economist
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson      Senior Disaster Risk Management        EASIN   DRM
Beatrice Koshie Michel      Senior Executive Assistant             SDNSO   Operations
Radhika Srinivasan          Sr Social Scientist                    OPSFC   Social
Supervision/ICR
Gavin P. Adlington          Lead Land Administration Specialist    ECSEN TTL
Arben Bakllamaja            Consultant                             AFTU1 Political Economy
Kathrine Kelm               Sr Land Administration Specialist      ECSEN Land administration
                            Senior Land Administration Officer –         IT (Land
Rumyana Tonchovska                                                 UNFAO
                            IT                                           administration)
Božena Lipej                Consultant                             ECSEN First registration
                            Junior Professional Associate
Aanchal Anand                                                      ECSEN Economist
                            (Economist)
Drite Dade                  Senior Projects Officer                ECSEN Environment
Blaga Djourdjin             Procurement Specialist                 ECSO2 Procurement
David E. Dowall             Consultant                             LCSDU Urban
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu      Senior Environmental Engineer          EASER Environment
                                                                         Financial
Elona Gjika                 Financial Management Specialist        ECSOQ
                                                                         Management
Artan Guxho                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist       ECSTR Infrastructure
Alexandra Cristina Montea
                            Junior Professional Associate          ECSEN Operations
Hadzi-Vidanovic
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala      Sector Manager, Water                  AFTN2 Water
Esma Kreso                  Environmental Specialist               ECSEN Environment
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson      Senior Disaster Risk Management        EASIN DRM
Belita Manka                Counsel                                LEGOP Legal
                                                                         Financial
Ida N. Muhoho               Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
                                                                         Management
Anu Saxen                   Senior Land Policy Specialist          ECSEN Land Policy
Yan Zhang                   Sr Urban Economist                     EASPS Urban




                                            79
(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                               314.79
  FY07                                                               179.00
  FY08                                                                -0.05
                          Total:                                     493.74
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                      0.00                       0
  FY07                                      2.91                      16
  FY08                                     39.66                     110
  FY09                                     49.12                     164
  FY10                                     53.48                     235
  FY11                                     49.58                     211
  FY12                                     40.59                     198
  FY13                                     38.50                     195
  FY14                                     34.63                     147
  FY15                                      7.49                      63
                          Total:          315.95                   1,339




                                     80
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Customer Satisfaction Surveys
Three customer satisfaction surveys were conducted during the course of the project
implementation. The main objective was to assess the project performance indicator for
Component A: “IPRO customer satisfaction improved from very poor to very good”

The first Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted in the period September –
December 2012 and the final report was delivered in February 2011. The general level of
client satisfaction was assessed to be “average”. This rate of satisfaction is also reflected
in the Monitoring Indicators table. The general conclusion of the Report was: Overall, we
assess that IPRO regional offices have improved the quality of services for customers, by
encouraging the development of a real estate market. However, we notice that there is
room and opportunity for further improvement in the overall function of customers’
services and increasing of security when performing transactions with immovable
properties in favor of the national economy in general.

The second customer satisfaction survey was conducted in the period November 2012 –
January 2013. The final report was provided in March 2013.

The 2012 survey results showed, that there was a slight increase within the group of
"satisfied customers" (from 75% to 78.3%), and it is reduced the number of "dissatisfied
and very dissatisfied" customers, from 25% (2010) to 21.7% (2012). Compared with the
2010 survey, the overall perception that current procedures are more effective has
increased and it is also found that there is significant progress of the professional
capacities of the IPRO staff by taking it out from the reasons for dissatisfaction, as
mentioned in 2010. There is a significant difference in customer perception as far as the
IPRO service quality provision is concerned compared with other public administration
institutions of local and central level.

Are you satisfied with the services provided by the IPRO office(s) in your region in general?
                                                   District
Level of Satisfaction
                         Durres     Fier      Korce      Sarande    Shkoder    Tirane      Total
1 = very satisfied        15.8%     12.6%       1.5%         0.0%     17.2%      23.3%      16.7%
2 = satisfied             50.5%     27.6%      33.3%        19.4%     34.5%      38.8%      36.9%
3 = somewhat satisfied    12.6%     28.7%      59.1%        69.4%     24.1%      14.6%      24.7%
4 = Dissatisfied          15.8%     25.3%       6.1%        11.1%     21.8%      16.2%      16.7%
5 = very dissatisfied      5.3%      5.7%       0.0%         0.0%      2.3%       7.1%       5.0%
Total                    100.0%    100.0%     100.0%      100.0%     100.0%    100.0%      100.0%
                    Source: “Customer Satisfaction Survey”, ACER, 2012

The third and final customer satisfaction survey was conducted during the period March
– May 2014 and the final report was provided on September 2014.

Are you satisfied with the services provided by the IPRO office(s) in your region in general?


                                             81
                                                   District
Level of Satisfaction
                           Durres   Fier   Korce    Sarande    Shkoder   Tirane     Total
1 = very satisfied         7%       6%     2%       6%         2%        8%         6%
2 = satisfied              40%      6%     9%       38%        7%        17%        16%
3 = somewhat satisfied     31%      30%    40%      31%        11%       22%        25%
4 = Dissatisfied           13%      24%    36%      19%        34%       17%        22%
5 = very dissatisfied      9%       34%    13%      6%         45%       37%        31%
 Total                     100%     100%   100%     100%       100%      100%       100%
                  Source: “Customer Satisfaction Survey III”, ACER, 2014

The results of the 2014 survey showed that the level of customer satisfaction for IPRO
experienced some fluctuations compared to the previous years and was considered to be
‘average’. This becomes more evident when evaluating indicators such as: time, queues,
staff capacity, costs and overall efficiency, and it is less evident with other indicators
such as: infrastructure, documentation, informal payments, information etc. These factors
have led to the conclusion that customer satisfaction at IPRO is considerably influenced
by the increase in the amount of time spent to obtain a final product/service and the
decline in efficiency of the staff at a time when fees on services have increased. It should
be noted that the upward trend of customer satisfaction in the two previous surveys has
not followed the same trend in 2013 – 2014. Taking into consideration that infrastructure
has been improved, this result may be explained by:

       The very large staff turnover of more than 50%, in the months prior to the survey.
        The newly hired employees did not possess sufficient experience or do not have
        sufficient/necessary technical knowledge, which could have led to lower
        efficiency. With proper training this problem could be mitigated and the new staff
        can improve their efficiency/performance.
       The increase with more than double in service fees was not based on a cost-based
        analysis. In addition, the increase in fees was not accompanied with an increase in
        service delivery quality or new investments.
       The introduction of the new IT system should have been accompanied with staff
        training, including the newly hired staff, in a timely manner.


Measuring customers’ perceptions provides the following trend of the main indicators:

       Time of waiting in line and the number of people waiting in line are reported to
        have increased, this mainly due to the longer amount of time spent at service
        desks. This, might indicate a decrease in efficiency in service desks. However this
        should be taken with caution and in relation to the number of customers at the
        IPROs, capacities of existing and new staff, type of service, possession of the
        right documents by the customers etc.
       The time for being delivered a service at service desks has increased. However
        this indicator should be understood by taking into consideration the workload,
        type of service, possession of the right documents by the customers, and service
        desk staff efficiency. The percentage of respondents reporting waiting in line up


                                           82
    to 20 minutes, a waiting time considered appropriate for these types of services,
    has not seen substantial changes from the last survey.
   Fees. In an overall assessment, 44% of the respondents consider service fees to be
    “reasonable” while 52% think they are “high” and “very high”. Although the
    differences compared to last year are not very large, they indicate a decrease in
    customer satisfaction with regard to the ratio price (fee)-(service) quality. It
    should be noted that when IPRO turned into a self-financing institution in 2013,
    the overall level of fees increased by more than twice. This however was not
    translated in more investments in infrastructure or in an increase in training of
    IPRO staff, which would have led to an increase in service delivery and would
    consequently justify or make up for the increase in service fees.
   Regarding the usage of the electronic register from the regular customers it
    results that only 9% have used the electronic register to check the online status of
    their application. From the regular customers that have used the electronic register
    52.5 % have found that the electronic register has facilitated the service delivery
    (they have stated that the electronic register ‘’has facilitated a lot’’ and ‘’has
    facilitated’’ the service delivery). 46% of the regular customers that have used the
    electronic register stated that the service delivery has improved in terms of time.
    With regard to the costs related to service delivery, it results that the majority of
    the respondents (62.5 %) have stated that ‘’there is no difference’’, whereas 22.5
    % found that the electronic registry has contributed to reducing the costs related
    to service delivery.
   This year’s survey shows that the gender gap on the level of information has
    shrink. According to the results of the survey, the information on procedures has
    increased for females to 69% and for males to 68%. Compared to 2012 the gender
    gap regarding the possession on information has decreased.
   Regarding the time for filling the procedure in the service counter, it should be
    stressed that there is a very small gap between males and females. 86 % of the
    male’s respondents stated that they wait “up to 20 minutes” to fill the procedure
    in the service counter, whereas this has been stated by 87 % of the females’
    respondents.
   In terms of gender perception on the services’ fees, both males and females, share
    the same perception. 51.5 % of females and 51.4 % of males, consider fees at
    IPRO as “very high’’ and “high’’.
   In terms of the level of satisfaction, it can be noted that there is a gender gap in
    favor of females. . 22 % of males are ‘’very satisfied’’ and ‘’satisfied’’, while
    26 % of females are “very satisfied” and “satisfied”.
   With regard to the professional attitude of the staff toward males and females, it
    results that that males (47 %) think that the professional attitude of the staff has
    not improved, whereas 43 % of females share the same opinion.
   Transparency on fees, procedures and appropriate documents, remain at
    satisfactory levels. However transparency should be handled better at some
    IPROs where perceptions indicate a decrease.
   Informal payments. The data obtained from the 2014 survey indicate that only 5
    percent of the respondents (30 out of 591) admitted to have made informal
    payments to obtain a service from the local IPRO. It should be noted that the same


                                       83
       trend as last year is preserved and this indicator has not increased even at a time
       when customer satisfaction regarding the time of service delivery and staff
       efficiency has fluctuated. On one hand this might be an indicator that there is an
       increase in customers and IPRO staff awareness regarding bribery, or this is a
       delicate and arguable issue as long as there is an overall average level of customer
       satisfaction for IPRO service delivery. A continuous monitoring of this
       phenomenon is required while guaranteeing a satisfactory level of efficiency and
       quality of service delivery, the deterioration of which can lead to informal
       payments. The publication of official fees, for example, has had a positive impact
       in the reduction of informal payments.
      With regard to customers perceptions on service delivery of IPRO compared to
       that of the public administration in general, there is a slight decrease (4 % less) in
       the number of respondents that think that the service delivery at IPRO is better
       than that of public administration.

The consultant’s report recommended improvements in the following areas:

      Improving service quality:
       Time spent at IPRO service desks to obtain a service needs to be reduced. For this
       reason it is recommended an increase in the number of service desks that have
       direct contact with clients as well as proper training of recently hired staff. This
       would improve staff efficiency and would reduce the time of waiting in line. In
       addition, it should be noted that the staff work performance indicators does not
       currently exist. In this regard it is recommended the establishment of such
       performance indicators and their continuous monitoring. In April 2013, when
       IPRO turned into a self-financing institution, fees were more than doubled which
       might have contributed to the slight decrease in customer satisfaction levels to
       some extent. The rationale behind this might be that while fees for the same
       services were increased, the efficiency of service delivery did not match such an
       increase, failing to meet people’s expectations about possible efficiency
       improvement due to higher fees. Overall, the perception that fees are high should
       be understood by taking into consideration that the economic situation has
       worsened overall (increase in unemployment for example), and taking into
       account that the increase in fees was not accompanied by the provision of a new
       service or faster service delivery.

       In addition, the increase of fees was not based on a cost-based analysis. The
       establishment of fees should derive from a cost-based analysis, where the fees
       cover the overall service cost plus a specific margin. In the current situation, the
       revenues exceed to a great extent IPRO costs. Thus, it is recommended the
       conduction of a cost-based analysis, in order for the service fees to cover the basis
       cost elements and a small margin.

       Another aspect that needs a specific attention is the free services that IPRO
       provides for public institutions. Currently the public institutions do not pay any
       fees for service delivery at IPRO. This means that the other customers take on the


                                          84
    weight of paying for them. In this regard, it is recommended that public
    institutions, which benefit from free services from IPRO pay for these services.
    This would reduce the burden placed on private customers who have to
    compensate for this. Institutions exempted from paying for IPRO services could
    include budgeting institutions such as: the army, the police, the prosecution etc.
    The expenses of these institutions, which are estimated to be nonetheless small,
    could be paid by the government budget for example.

    Another aspect that might change and it comes as e recommendation as well, is
    related to the annual fiscal profit of IPRO. Currently, IPRO functions as a self-
    financing institution and the profit goes to the government budget at the end of the
    year. This means that the new fiscal year of IPRO starts with a balance sheet of
    zero profits.
     In this situation it recommended that the profit that IPRO generates remains at
    IPRO and is used for further investments, improvements etc.

   Access to Information and Public Awareness
    The results of the survey indicate that the information offices at IPRO remain the
    main source of information. This leads to long lines at IPROs and to longer
    waiting hours. To mitigate long lines and waiting hours IPRO should try to
    provide comparable information through other sources such as for example:
    media, online portal of IPRO etc. This would facilitate individuals living in more
    remote areas, for which it is difficult to travel to IPROs, so that they have access
    to information related to IPRO services as well. In this way time would be used
    more efficiently and the finalization of procedures would be made easier. All of
    this in turn would be translated into a higher level of customer satisfaction. In this
    regard, IPRO should work on raising the public awareness for using such sources.

    More public awareness campaigns regarding first registration procedures are
    recommended, in order to encourage new customers to register their properties,
    especially in rural areas.

    According to the results of the survey only a small number of customers have
    used the electronic registry, which calls for more campaigns for the purpose of
    informing customers about the benefits of using the electronic registry as a faster
    and costless service.

   Increase of System Efficiency

    The further expansion of electronic services should continue and the
    implementation of the automatic registration system should be extended to all
    local IPROs, which would bring considerable improvement in timeframes of
    transactions finalizations.




                                       85
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                  86
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Component A:

IPRO have created an Implementation Completion Report for component A of the LAMP
project. It includes conclusions and recommendations on the following aspects of
component A:

   Information Technology Development

      The early termination of uncompleted contract for installation of the datacenter
       equipment and integration of the ALBSReP system requires IPRO to prepare an
       action plan and take immediate steps to complete the installation and testing in the
       AKSHI Data Center and than install ALBSReP and database of all completed
       cadastral zones in the new infrastructure. The increasing number of uploaded
       cadastral zones in the new system would very soon require additional storage and
       processing capacities, exceeding the limits of the old temporary data center.
      A SLA arrangement needs to be put in place for the support and maintenance of
       ALBSReP.
      After the closure of the LAMP Project, on June 30, 2014, it was not possible to
       continue the contract with three software development team members hired under
       LAMP. IPRO offered all of them the possibility to be hired as permanent staff of
       IPRO, but only one accepted this offer. IPRO should take immediate actions to
       insure that adequate staff are hired and trained to follow up the continuing
       software development issued, taking into consideration that this software has been
       developed in-house.
      The ALBSReP Operational Regulation and the Security Regulation need to be
       approved by the IPRO Board.
      The connectivity with 10 big offices need to be planned and established for the
       next year and expanded to other local IPRO Offices if needed.
      Continued training and testing need to be provided to the System Users in the
       Local IPRO-s.

   Surveying and Adjudication to Support First Registration

      An accurate analyze of the status of sporadic registration should have been
       conducted before finalizing the technical specifications for first registration. The
       sporadic registration conducted previously was assumed to be correct in most of
       the cases. The work needed to correct the mistakes was underestimated.
      The lack of update of sporadic Kartela with further transaction was not identified
       at the begging of the project. Considering that the regulation requires that the
       transactions for sporadic properties are registered in both Hipoteka Books and
       Sporadix Kartela, it was assumed that the sporadic Kartelas were updated. In fact
       in most of the cases, the transactions were registered only in Hipoteka Books.
      Considering the big volume of work to be conducted by the Local IPRO to correct
       and update the manual sporadic Kartelas, it could have been more efficient to


                                         87
    either complete this work prior to the systematic first registration or assign this
    work to the contractor rather than to the local IPRO. Of course this would have
    increased the cost, but on the other hand, would have avoided the dependency of
    the contractor on the Local IPRO, unclear responsibilities of the parties and
    arguments for disputes regarding the respective responsibilities and causes of
    delays, making the contract management very complicated.
   Local IPRO-s, especially those with big number of cadastral zones under first
    registration, should have assign at the very beginning, qualified staff dedicated
    only for the first registration process. This staff should have been periodically
    trained and updated with new legislation and regulation.
   The software used for delivering the data and the quality control “Pasurite” should
    have been improved to allow more automatic controls. A new software for the
    quality control was developed in the last stage of first registration, which proved
    to be more efficient.

Quality Assurance

   IPRO should ensure that technical monitoring work commences at the same time,
    or slightly before, the production work. This would allow for an initial review of
    procedures and for the technical monitoring to engage the best human resources.
   IPRO should coordinate the handover of documents to contractors in each DIPRO.
    Provision in the contract should be made for late-delivered documents.
   IPRO should ensure that future First Registration contracts impose penalty clauses
    on contractors for multiple failures of products, provided the failures are not
    caused by the IPRO.
   IPRO should improve the First Registration monitoring procedures to be more
    specific on rejection criteria when only minor issues remain.
   IPRO should ensure, for future First Registration contracts, that the DIPROs are
    ready for the work. An inventory of documents should be provided with the bid
    documents in order to better define scope of work and reduce risk and cost to
    project and to contractors.
   IPRO should require in future First Registration contracts, a Technical Monitoring
    field survey report for this activity and a sign-off by CIPRO before proceeding
    and consider an intermediate payment step at the time of passing the field survey
    control.
   IPRO should ensure that future First Registration Contracts specify that the
    Registration Index Map should be correct on date of approval of Phase 1 Product.
    IPRO should amend the First Registration monitoring procedures to state that a
    Cadastral Zone Boundary confirmation is a prerequisite for commencement of
    technical monitoring of Phase 1 products.
   IPRO should amend the First Registration Monitoring Procedures to better define
    legal mistakes and technical mistakes.
   IPRO should show little tolerance for contractors or DIPRO defects in Phase 1.
    Accepting of “problems” should be done with discretion. The technical
    monitoring procedures for First Registration should be more specific on the
    allowable errors.


                                      88
   Training Strategy, Planning and Management:

      Before the new IPRO structure was approved in April 2013, there was no training
       function within IPRO. Although the role of the Training Manager hired under the
       project was important to plan and organize a number of trainings, this
       implementation of sub-component suffered from the lack of coordination with the
       HR Department and the lack of identification and commitment of dedicated
       trainers within the organization.
      Only internal experts can deliver training of IPRO legal, regulatory framework
       and business process. The training on first registration monitoring procedures and
       users of the IT System was planed, organized and delivered by the Department of
       Mapping and Registration and IT Department, without the involvement of the HR
       Department, which should be responsible for the planning and management of the
       training.
      Following the approval of a new IPRO structure in April 2013, two additional
       staff were hired in the HR Department to deal with the training. There is an urgent
       need to build Training Management capacities within the HR Department. This
       will help to ensure that all training delivered to IPRO staff will be cost effective
       and efficient, well managed, timely and therefore provide maximum benefit to
       both the organization and the individual.
      A Training Plan has been designed for IPRO. This plan should be updated
       regularly by the HR Department. They should be designed and updated at the
       same time as the budget cycles to ensure they reflect the training that can
       effectively and economically be done.
      Professional training is important in HR and HR Management within the HR area
       and that a coordinated program of professional training in this area to develop a
       strong, professional HR team.
      The current HR spreadsheet for staff should be expanded to include more
       information and its quality needs to be improved.

IPRO also provided a document summarizing the ICT solution (ALBSReP) installed at
all IPRO regional offices to support land administration services: “Brief information on
the ALBSReP, the computerised immovable property registration system, being operated
in 35 Local Immovable Property Registration Offices across the country, December
2014”. This was used as a reference document to check descriptions of ALBSReP in the
ICR.

Component B:

No report was produced on the completion of this component in April 2013.

Component C:




                                         89
Although a report was produced on the completion of this component in April 2013, the
report was very factual, focusing on activities and deliverables and did not include any
lessons learned.

Component D:

No report has yet been produced on the completion of this component.




                                         90
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Sida:

Scope of Support:

        A twining project was agreed between IPRO and Lantmäteriet in Sweden. This
        project was financed by Sida under separate financing from LAMP. The twinning
        project had two phases and included the following components:

        PHASE 1
         IT Support:
          o Enhance the quality and up-date the existing digital and analogue records
              in preparation for conversion to the digital system;
          o Develop IT-systems for data capture (data entry) from analogue records,
              conversion of digital records, registration of immovable property
              transactions and information dissemination;
          o Implementation of IT-system;

           Study Tours:
            o Three study tours were organized under the twinning agreement: two in
               Sweden and one in Lithuania. The objective of these study tours was to
               share experiences with similar institutions regarding the modernization of
               the registration system and internal organization and management.

        PHASE 2
         To make ALBPOS operational and develop applications for the use of
          cadastral surveys and for improvement of data quality and harmonization of
          geographic information in Albania and Europe.

           Development of business management and financial systems for IPROs new
            position as a self-financing agency, including the creation of a Strategic
            Business Plan.

           Capacity building.

        This complimentary funding was well targeted in the support of a robust IT and
        data management solution and supporting the migration of IPRO towards a self-
        financing organization. The twinning agreement runs until the end of 2014.

Commentary by Robert Nygard, Swedish Embassy, Tirana:

        “Land Administration Management Project (LAMP) aims to assist the Immovable
        Property Registration Office (IPRO) to establish security of tenure and
        immovable property rights. Sida has contributed to the Land Administration
        Management Project (LAMP) with 40 msek since 2006.


                                          91
Overall Sida assess that the World Bank has made a good performance
considering the difficulties to work in the sector. Project target has, however, been
revised and the results today are less than anticipated despite several extension of
the agreement. To increase the speed of implementation WB follow up of IPRO
activities has been very intense the last years. The IPRO has been requested to do
monthly reporting on progress. Should the intense follow up have started earlier?
On one hand side more results might have been achieved but on the other hand
side Albanian ownership would have been less.

In Albania we currently use by Sida recruited monitoring expert in two WB TF to
assist in the follow-up. The Sida monitoring focus on priority areas for Sida i.a.
gender equality and good governance. In the LAMP program Sida has not had any
Sida recruited monitoring expert as it was not wanted, or even not accepted by the
WB, at earlier stage of the LAMP project. Today we have understood there would
be no objections to Sida staff or Sida recruited expert taking part of WB semi-
annual missions.

Sweden has concurrently since 2010 with the implementation of the LAMP
funded a “twinning” arrangement between Lantmäteriet, (the Swedish cadastral
and property registration office) and IPRO.

The collaboration between IPRO and Lantmäteriet have been based on a program
formulated by the two parties. The twinning has been complementary to the
LAMP but we have not seen synergies between LAMP and Lantmäteriet. The
twinning has though been limited in scope and funding.

Today it is clear that Sida’s responsibility and accountability for projects in where
Sida contributes to the WB TF includes the whole project (grant+loan), not only
the Sida grant funding involved. It may have been perceived differently at the
start of the project LAMP. In this respect Sida is concerned with complaints from
contracted companies for not having been paid for their services when the LAMP
is closing. It risk to have negative effects on the image of Albania and may
influence the willingness of serious commercial actors to make bids in the future.”




                                   92
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. “Assessment of the Project Performance under the Land Administration and
   Management Project, (LAMP) P096263, component A2.2 concerning the First
   Registration of properties in selected rural and urban Cadastre Zones,” by Jürg
   Kaufmann, Kaufmann Consulting, Rüdlingen, Switzerland. Dated 30th March 2014.
2. “Land Administration and Management Project Component C, Report, May 2008 –
   April 2013”.
3. “Final Report – Technical Monitoring for First Registration, Project
   LAMP/A2.3/CS/QCBS/QC-03” by supervisor, 30th April 2014.
4. “Technical Quality Audit of the Albanian Land Administration IT System
   Integration,” by Jan van Bennekom-Minnema, COWI A/S, September 2014.
5. Economic and Financial Model supporting Annex 3.
6. “Brief information on the ALBSReP, the computerised immovable property
   registration system, being operated in 35 Local Immovable Property Registration
   Offices across the country” IPRO, Ministry of Justice, December 2014.




                                       93
MAP




      94
