 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14777

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Albania
             Project ID: P096263                                                     Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Land Administration           Project Costs (US$M):                       56.3                  39.8
                         And Management
                         Project (lamp)
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        35.0                  27.4
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                         2.4                   4.8
                         Development
           Cofinanciers: Sweden (Sida)                  Board Approval Date :                             02/22/2007
                                                                Closing Date:           12/31/2011        06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      Sub-national government administration (78%); Central government administration (21%);
                          Law and justice (1%)
          Theme(s):       Personal and property rights (25%); Land administration and management (25%); Urban
                          planning and housing policy (24%); Legal institutions for a market economy (13%);
                          Infrastructure services for private sector development (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
John R. Heath             J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                          Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5),

"The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and urban
management, through enhancing tenure security, improving urban planning, land management and development
control, improving property valuation and taxation, and investments in urban infrastructure and services."

This was changed following formal revision (Level 1 restructuring) at the request of the Government to address flood
damage in northern Albania during January-March and November-December 2010 and to scale back or discontinue
some underperforming components.

The revised objective of the Project was: to (i) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and
management through enhanced tenure security and improved urban planning; and (ii) rebuild physical assets and
restore essential services in the flood affected areas in Albania" (Restructuring Paper, January 6, 2011, p. ii).

This revision necessitates a split evaluation following the harmonized guidelines.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 01/21/2011
c. Components:

Component A: Security of Tenure and Registration of Immovable Property Rights
Expected cost at appraisal , US$ 19.4 million; Actual cost at closing , US$ 23.3 million.
Investments to improve the service delivery, efficiency and transparency of the Immovable Property Registration
Office (IPRO) and to complete most of the first registration of immovable property rights. The component was initially
limited to urban and peri-urban areas but was subsequently extended to cover the entire country.

Component B: Urban Land Management
Expected cost at appraisal , US$ 5.1 million; Actual cost at closing , US$ 3.3 million.
Investments to strengthen the capacity of municipalities in urban land management by: (1) establishing a
market-responsive, participatory urban planning and development control system through revising urban planning law
and developing regulatory plans for participating cities; and (2) mobilizing municipal revenues and correcting property
market distortions through property valuation and taxation.

At the 2011 restructuring the property valuation and taxation sub-component was cancelled.

Component C: Municipal Infrastructure
Expected cost at appraisal , US$ 31.5 million; Actual cost at closing , US$ 4.4 million.
Investments to strengthen planning for urban growth and to enhance urban land market efficiency through
infrastructure investments and services, in accordance with strategic investment plans. The component also
supported implementation of the address system.

At the 2011 restructuring the number of Phase 1 municipal infrastructure projects to be completed was reduced from
ten to four.

At the 2011 restructuring the following component was added:

Component D: Emergency Response
Expected cost, US$ 12.6 million: Actual cost at closing , US$ 8.6 million.
This financed emergency reconstruction and minor works and equipment supply to Shkoder and Lezhe Prefectures,
which were flooded in 2009 and in 2010.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: On 01/21/2011 the funds for Components B and C were reduced by US$ 0.4 million and US$12.2 million
respectively and this amount was used to fund emergency works under the newly-introduced Component D. The total
project cost at project completion was $39.84 million compared with the estimated cost at appraisal of $56.4 million.

Financing: At appraisal IBRD financing was estimated at US$20.0 million but actual IBRD costs were US$13.8 million;
IDA costs were estimated at appraisal to be US$15.0 million compared with an actual cost of US$13.5 million. [Actual
figures refer to the final amounts disbursed , as indicated by the Operations Portal at the time of this review ; the ICR
gives different figures .] A Japan PHRD grant provided the equivalent of US$1.5 million of which US$1.48 million was
disbursed. Sweden (SIDA) contributed co-financing equivalent to US$2.4 million but at the project’s close this had
increased to US$4.8 million.

Government Contribution : The contribution from the central government and municipalities was estimated to be
respectively US$0.6 million and US$1.0 million at appraisal and US$1.7 million and US$0.9 million at loan closing.

Dates: The loan closing date was extended at restructuring from December 2011 to June 2013. At the date of this
restructuring, 22 percent of the loan had been disbursed. On 06/17/2013 the loan closing date was extended again
from June 2013 to 06/30/2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

ORIGINAL (Rating: Substantial)

The government began a program of land administration reforms in 1991, with project funding provided by the
European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the United Nations Development
Programme. The land registration data gathered under the auspices of these early projects was of inconsistent
quality. Also, when the Bank began preparing this project, land and property rights were still not fully secure. There
were still about 600,000 urban and 300,000 rural parcels that had not been registered. The registration process was
particularly slow in urban and coastal areas. In these high-value areas, several claims for returning properties to their
pre-1945 owners (or paying compensation) had not been settled. The government had developed a compensation
framework that was more generous than in neighboring countries faced with similar restitution claims; so generous
that it could not afford to pay the level of compensation it had committed to, leading to inaction. At the Immovable
Property Registration Office (IPRO), the registration process was long and expensive, partly because clients had to
pay bribes to get work done. Local governments had been given increasing responsibility for land management but
lacked the capacity to discharge their new obligations. Urban expansion was weakly regulated, with little attempt to
build much needed infrastructure, particularly in informal settlements. Municipal fiscal revenues were insufficient to
pay for this infrastructure, mainly because property taxes were too low and frequently evaded.

Project objectives responded to all but one of these challenges: the settlement of land restitution claims. Objectives
were in line with the expected outcomes of the FY11-14 Country Assistance Strategy (which was current when the
project closed). These outcomes included a reduction in the time for registering immovable property transactions.

REVISED (Rating: Substantial)

Dropping the property valuation and taxation objective and scaling back the expected infrastructure development
outcome reduced the overall relevance of the project. The removal of the property tax sub-component limited the
scope for collecting the municipal fiscal resources needed to provide essential infrastructure and social services to an
increasing population. Also, the objective of improving infrastructure was reduced from serving ten to serving four
municipalities. Thus, the relevance of the first objective was modest. On the other hand, the second objective was
highly relevant: repairing the damage caused by extensive floods in northern Albania in 2009 and 2010 responded to
a pressing need. Balancing the ratings of the first and second objective, the overall relevance rating is substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

ORIGINAL (Rating: Modest)

The project design sought to address simultaneously the need to strengthen land administration institutions, the need
to build capacity for urban land management and the need to improve municipal infrastructure. These needs were met
respectively by Components A, B and C, each of which contained an appropriate mix of initiatives. But each of these
components was a project in itself. Rolling them into a single project created a need to coordinate several actors: the
three ministries of justice, interior and public works, together with local governments, the cadastre agency (IPRO) and
the property legalization agency (ALUIZNI). Each of these institutions needed strengthening and it would have made
sense to sequence the intervention, beginning with the land administration initiatives addressed by Component A.

The restitution / compensation to former landowners is currently at a stalemate within Albania due to the current law
which is not affordable to implement. It is critical to resolve the claims by former owners in order to have secure
ownership rights, especially in coastal zones. This matter was not addressed by the project. Failure of the
government to address this issue has negative effects on the security of property rights, especially in areas still
claimed by former land owners. This dispute potentially affects the security of tenure of all registered land owners in
Albania and may inhibit development of the land market and foreign investment.

Finally, the results framework in the PAD was a tabulation of objectives and indicators with no attempt to spell out the
logic linking the project's inputs and outputs to the outcomes the project sought to achieve.

REVISED (Rating: Modest)

Design complexity--the need to coordinate many different actors--was reduced with restructuring and the addition of
an emergency reconstruction component was an appropriate response to the severe flooding. The flood response
was well designed. A civil emergency task force was established with Deputy Prime Minister in charge. Drainage and
Water Authorities submitted proposals for projects (preliminary designs and budgets provided by consultants) and the
task force decided on a list of projects to be included in Component D. The designs of the selected projects were
reviewed and 8 subprojects were created that were then split into 10 contracts.

On the other hand, removing the property tax and valuation sub-component of Component B hampered achievement
of the first objective [(i) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and management through
enhanced tenure security and improved urban planning] because property tax and valuation were essential
complements to investing in municipal infrastructure (Component C). Also, at restructuring, there was no attempt to
improve the weak results framework presented in the PAD (see above).
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


ORIGINAL

OBJECTIVE: "Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and urban management , through
enhancing tenure security , improving urban planning , land management and development control , improving
property valuation and taxation , and investments in urban infrastructure and services ." (Rating: Modest )

The target for the time taken to register property was 10 days (compared to the baseline of 47 days). By loan closing,
the number of days required was down to 6, amply surpassing the target. [According to Doing Business, the time
needed to register real estate was 10 days in 2012; but the type of transaction that DB surveys refer to--the
international benchmark--is not representative of the full range of transactions covered by this project.] Customer
satisfaction with land administration services increased from 'very poor' to 'average'; the target was 'very good'. The
number of titles issued in urban and rural areas was 357,383, compared to the target of 500,000. The number of
municipalities issuing regulatory plans was 8 (not 12 as expected). Also, the project's contribution to the efficiency
and effectiveness of land administration and urban planning was less than expected because the property valuation
sub-component (Component B) was not implemented. Investments in infrastructure and services were completed in
only 4 of the 13 municipalities originally scheduled.

An original legal covenant of the project was the preparation of a draft property valuation law to parliament and the
introduction of market based property taxation. It became evident during implementation that the government did not
want to change the property valuation and taxation system. The sub-component was dropped. This reduced the scope
for municipalities to collect the tax revenues needed to finance infrastructure and social services for the population at
large.


REVISED

OBJECTIVE (1): "Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of land administration and management through
enhanced tenure security and improved urban planning ." (Rating: Substantial)

The project largely achieved the scaled back objectives and targets associated with land administration and urban
management.

On land administration, the project met most of the revised targets for improving land registration and cadastral
services and adjusting the associated regulations to support digital approaches to modern
land administration. Underpinning this change was new information technology designed to make IPRO more efficient
and to provide remote access to the land records and associated archive and improve transparency. The number of
days taken to register property (6) almost met the revised target value of 5 days. The target for the number of
properties registered was reduced from 500,000 to 400,000; the number of properties registered by loan closing
(357,383) was thus 89 percent of the revised target.

Investments in infrastructure and services were completed in 4 municipalities before restructuring (the revised target
was reduced to 4 municipalities). Targets for other intermediate outcomes were either met or (in the case of training
and office automation) amply exceeded. In 13 cities, new street addresses and building numbers were implemented,
surpassing the revised target of 10.

OBJECTIVE (2): "Rebuild physical assets and restore essential services in flood affected areas ."
(Rating: Substantial)

The objectives associated with repairing flood damage were achieved. As expected, 150,000 people benefited directly
from the rehabilitated water supply pumping stations and newly-installed water testing equipment, investments that
increased access to safe water. Second, 9,100 ha of crop land benefited from flood mitigation investments involving
rehabilitation of drainage pumping stations. Two out of the 3 pumping stations targeted for rehabilitation were
refurbished. According to the Project Paper, the aim was to benefit 33,000 persons in farming households in the
affected areas but the ICR does not say what number were finally served.

5. Efficiency:

Efficiency is rated substantial.
The project appraisal document (PAD) did not estimate an economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project and
therefore the rate given (23 percent for Component A and 20 percent for Component C) is not comparable with the
estimate in the ICR (23 percent for all components).

The estimation of benefits associated with Component A was more broadly based in the ICR than in the PAD (or in
the Project Paper prepared when project objectives were formally revised). Component A analysis in the PAD looked
only at the effects of property market development but not at gains from productivity through the new information
technology system that was introduced or fiscal impact like increased property tax revenue through more registrations
and reduced spending due to IPRO’s self-financing structure. Also, the ICR considers as a benefit the spur that
increased tenure security gave to the establishment of medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs).

The economic analysis in the ICR is based on plausible assumptions, although it should be noted that the estimate of
MSME growth was based on findings from interviews with two commercial banks and the Albanian Association of
Banks rather than a survey of MSMEs. This is an important caveat because the economic analysis attributes to
MSME development the largest share of the present value of the project's actual benefits (US$99 million for the
project as a whole). MSMEs account for 49 percent of the present value of all benefits. This is grounded on the
conservative assumption that 1 percent of the properties registered under the project concern premises where
MSMEs could potentially be set up. The other components of present value are, in descending order: residential
property market development (19 percent); fiscal savings from IPRO self-financing (13 percent); potential future
savings from emergency flood response (11 percent); municipal infrastructure development (8 percent); and
e-governance productivity gains (1 percent).

The cumulative project benefits till 2020 amount to US$101.2 million. Assuming a 10 percent discount rate, project net
present value estimated at US$12.82 million and the economic rate of return is estimated at 23 percent. The project
team told IEG that the ICR focuses more on near-term impact (the first ten years of a 20 year horizon) than in the PAD
or Project Paper, because there is more certainty about what may be attributed to the project.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      21%                                     91%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      23%                                     100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Against the original objectives outcome is rated moderately satisfactory . This is designated a rating of 4.
Against the revised objectives , outcome is rated satisfactory . This is designated a rating of 5.

Calculation of split rating

When the revision of project objectives was approved by the Board, 22 percent (US$ 7.0 million) of the actual
loan/credit amount of US$32.3 million had been disbursed. The remaining 78 percent was disbursed following the
restructure. Thus, as outlined in the harmonized guidelines we use the following calculation to determine the outcome
rating:

(4 x 0.22) + (5 x 0.78) = 4.78 (which rounds up to '5.0') = Satisfactory

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Corruption remains widespread in Albania and in the absence of government initiatives to increase transparency and
tighten financial controls and auditing, land administration agencies are likely not to serve the public as well as they
should. Land administration agencies have low autonomy and their performance is hostage to an electoral cycle that
results in high staff turnover, leading to an erosion of both institutional memory and sense of mission. Although IPRO
successfully drew on in-house resources to develop a good IT system it will be a continuing challenge to maintain and
update this system because the best software engineers are regularly poached by private firms.

The project did not address restitution of land to pre-1945 landowners. Until the government completes this process
the outstanding claims will reduce tenure security and the may result in challenges to some of the titles issued under
the project. As long as this issue remains unresolved the operation of the land market will be hampered and inward
investment (particularly in the prosperous coastal areas where land disputes are most acute) will be less than it could
be.

Land records have been generated by a number of projects, implemented by different development agencies, dating
back to the 1990s. The quality of data in the older records is poor. Also, most land in forests and pastures is not
covered by the records. Until the records are fully updated and integrated using a common technology, and until the
gaps in coverage are filled, public confidence in the land administration system will be qualified and the benefits from
this project will not be fully realized.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Public Works share responsibility for maintaining the flood protection works
built under Component D. But the precise responsibilities of each agency for activities such as dredging were not
clearly defined. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture has yet to agree with local governments on the division of
maintenance responsibilities. Until responsibilities are properly assigned and budgeted flood protection will be
compromised, and project benefits may be less enduring than expected.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Bank sector work, cited in the PAD, potentially provided a sound analytic base for project preparation (Status
of Land Reform and Real Property Markets in Albania, 2005; Albania Urban Sector Review, 2006). Despite the
availability of this analytic support the Bank did not read the political economy well and prepared an unwieldy
project that was out of line with country commitment and capacity. Project design was flawed by the attempt to
combine disparate initiatives (land administration and municipal infrastructure) in a single operation, because
Bank management would only provide the administrative budget for preparation of one project. There were few
synergies between sub-components, government capacity to support the various initiatives was limited and the
Bank overestimated the Borrower's commitment to reform the property tax.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    At the outset, supervision was hampered by the absence from the project team of in-depth land administration
expertise. Supervision skills and resources were stepped up significantly once the decision to restructure was
taken.

Between approval of the project in February 2007 and the mid-term review mission in April 2009 less than 17
percent of project financing was disbursed and it was clear that the development objectives and outcome targets
were no longer feasible. The Bank pressed for a revision of the project objectives (Level 1 restructuring) but this
was delayed until January 2011, mainly owing to slow response by the Borrower. In general, with the move to
formally restructure the project, the weak quality at entry was addressed, supervision became more intense and
also more adaptive.

The Bank provided strong support and guidance to IPRO on the design and development of the new IT system. As
necessary, the Bank approached senior government officials for help in stepping up the pace of implementation.
When the first registration contracts were mishandled, the Bank hired a contractor to provide independent quality
assurance. Given the slow pace of implementing the municipal infrastructure investments (Component C) the
Bank supported the transfer of most of the funds from that component to a new component (D) intended to
address the damage caused by major floods. The Bank closely supervised procurement for emergency works,
doing its best to ensure that quality norms were respected.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    At preparation, the government pledged to upgrade the Treasury's financial management system but these
improvements had not been made by the time of loan closing. Also, counterpart funds were not released on time
so that contractors were often paid late.

The government did not give equal support to the three implementing agencies: IPRO (land registration and
cadaster); ALUIZNI (legalization of properties); and the Restitution Agency (restitution of land belonging to former
owners). Each of these was subordinate to a different ministry, calling for concerted efforts at coordination. The
government gave first priority to ALUIZNI, neglecting the needed capacity-building at IPRO - the core institution for
the project's implementation.

The Ministry of Justice, which chaired the project steering committee, was not effective in coordinating the three
ministries (Justice, Public Works and Interior) involved in project implementation. There was limited public
disclosure of procurement plans by the three agencies. The need for a Level 1 restructuring was identified at
midterm review in March 2009 but, owing to delays by the Borrower, restructuring could not be approved by the
Bank's Board until January 2011.

The property valuation and taxation sub-component was dropped at the government's behest, undermining the
original attempt to boost the fiscal resources that municipalities needed to provide infrastructure and social
services.

Local governments were slow to hire the staff needed to prepare infrastructure investment proposals so that it
became impossible to complete the expected number of investments.

The Ministry of Public Works was responsible for implementing the flood damage response and handled the
contracting of reconstruction well, although there was a lack of clarity about maintenance of the flood protection
works that were built (responsibility was to be shared between the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of
Agriculture).

Government interfered with and mishandled procurement arrangements, resulting in significant delays (see
Section 11b below for details).


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Project implementation was integrated into the regular work of the three ministries rather than assigned to a
project-specific unit. This made sense in terms of capacity building but because project directors were, first and
foremost, civil servants they tended to pay more attention to their routine work than to the project. Procurement
and contract management were the hampered by the weak capacity and mixed performance of the implementing
agencies, leading to implementation delays.

The three implementing agencies (IPRO, ALUIZNI and the Commission for Restitution and Compensation) did not
work closely together and there was little knowledge sharing between them. Capacity building under the project
was weak. Few attempts were made to remedy the lack of expertise in project management, procurement and
contract management. There was rapid staff turnover. Over 18 months were taken to hire the consultants needed
to design the Regulatory Plans for Municipalities. The planning law was only enacted after the completion of the
Regulatory Plans. Interventions to introduce external quality assurance supervision of registration data, improve
coordination amongst the District Offices, IPRO and the contractors; hire new staff at District Offices and simplify
roles of the District Offices led to improved performance during the last 18 months of the project.

IFPRO performance was mixed overall but improved substantially in the last year of implementing Component A.
The agency was slow to profit from lessons learned. The first registration projects supported by USAID, EU and
OSCE developed robust procedures for capturing land rights information. The Bank had recommended that these
procedures be adopted within the design and implementation of the project but IPRO did not act on this advice
and only towards the end of the project (at Bank insistence) were data quality controls introduced. The training
and capacity building funded under Component A were not taken full advantage of by IPRO and, by loan closing,
capacity was still weak, jeopardizing the sustainability of some of the improvements that IPRO achieved under the
project. Two years were taken for the IT contract to be prepared, only for the tender to be canceled and
substituted by an in-house proposal.

Four stronger points of IPRO's performance are worthy of note. First, the in-house IT solution that was developed
turned out to be flexible and cost-effective, allowing the 35 IPRO District Offices to readily access and update
digital files. Second, in 2013, IPRO became a self-financing organization, as envisaged by the project's legal
covenants. This new status requires IPRO to transform itself into a customer-focused business, which bodes well
for the future. Third, a new Chief Registrar of IPRO was appointed in October 2013, leading to better coordination
between IPRO, district offices and contractors. Fourth, in the district offices new staff were hired and procedures
were simplified. This resulted in an acceleration of the first registration process, delivering 160,000 registrations in
nine months.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  Plans for monitoring and evaluation included (for Component A):
  Establishment of internal and external monitoring systems for IPRO;
  Measurement of the number of first registrations through a six-monthly progress reports;
  Measurement of customer satisfaction and reduction in the number of days to register property transactions
    through annual customer surveys in selected municipal offices. The aim was for the first annual survey to be
    conducted in the first year of the project, establishing a base line.

For Component C, customer surveys in municipalities would record the number of days taken to issue a building
permit. Output indicators included the number of regulatory plans completed, the number of municipalities accessing
the investments, and the amount of property tax collected.

b. M&E Implementation:

Progress with recording first registrations (Component A) was limited owing to poor management by IPRO. This led to
factual inaccuracies in supervision reporting, although this was subsequently corrected. IPRO lacked the
management information system needed to handle routine output monitoring. For this reason, progress by contractors
was not regularly tracked. These deficiencies were partially rectified by hiring an external company to quality assure
the monitoring of registrations. The proposed baseline survey of customer satisfaction was carried out in the first year
of implementation, as envisaged. Follow-up surveys were conducted in 2008, 2011 and 2014.

Under Component B, monitoring of the quality of the Regulatory Plans involved oversight by and consultation with
citizens and mayors. The approach adopted was replicated elsewhere.

Following restructuring, monitoring of Component D activities was carried out by the dedicated project implementation
unit that was created to supervise emergency relief. In addition, consultants were hired to report on the progress
made by contractors building the pumping stations. Reporting by these consultants could have been more timely.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Monitoring data on the (limited) progress on first registration were successfully used to make a case to the Prime
Minister that the project needed high-level pressure to make any advance. These data were also used to support the
case for hiring a quality assurance contractor and for greater IPRO support to district offices. Overall, however, the
project did not substantially increase the M&E capacity of the implementing agencies


M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Steps were taken to ensure that the contracting procedures for municipal investments were consistent with
environmental and social safeguards. After restructuring, under component D, site-specific Environmental
Management Plans were prepared for the various draining/pumping stations financed under the project. No safeguard
violations were reported for any project component.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
There were several procurement delays, resulting from the lack of experience of staff in the implementing agencies
and from government interference. "The majority of the significant delays in project components were directly related
to procurement activities. A key weakness in all the procurement approaches was the corresponding project
governance arrangements and the voluntary attitude to membership of evaluation committees. Many procurements
involved multiple ministries / authorities and there was no single responsible officer (SRO) appointed to take sole
charge of the procurement process. This led to delays in forming and sustaining evaluation committees, interference
and significant delays in the decision making process" (ICR, p. 33).

With respect to financial management, contractors were paid late, partly because financial information in the Treasury
system used by the project was not regularly updated and partly owing to the fiscal crises that interrupted the delivery
of counterpart funds. The planned upgrade to the Treasury system did not take place until after loan closing. All audits
were unqualified.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Project financing for IPRO information technology provided electronic access to textual and map based land records
and also to the scanned archive, a step beyond the original project design. New e-services can be implemented in
less than a month. The ICR cites several other improvements in land administration institutions but it is not clear to
what extent these positive impacts were attributable to the project.

d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory       With the upgrade in one of the
                               Satisfactory                                    objectives in the post-restructured
                                                                               period, the split calculation results in
                                                                               the upgrade.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant        Corruption of government agencies
                     Outcome:                                                  remains a significant problem. There
                                                                               are also gaps in land records and
                                                                               ownership disputes that may undermine
                                                                               the benefits created by the project. The
                                                                               division of responsibilities for
                                                                               maintaining the flood emergency works
                                                                               was not clear.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
 Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Multi-sector projects are difficult to manage, particularly when there are several implementing agencies, each
     of limited capacity.
    Projects are more likely to succeed when the Bank has a thorough understanding of political and institutional
     obstacles in the client country and is realistic in framing reform objectives.
    The Bank's quality assurance process has an important role to play in ensuring that the findings of analytic
     work and a proper understanding of political economy are thoroughly reflected in project design.
    Although the Bank can influence the pace and the quality of implementation, there is a limited extent to which
     intensive Bank supervision can make up for implementing agencies' lack of contract management skills.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is well-written and comprehensive. The economic analysis was thorough and systematic, and was based on
assumptions that were both conservative and plausible. However, in Annex 3, the bulk of the present value of total
benefits is attributed to factors (particularly the development of medium, small and micro enterprises) that are not
discussed in the main body of the ICR. These should have been addressed in the 'unintended outcomes' section of
the ICR.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
