OFFICIAL            ..
Ksenia Lvvsky'Deshmoret e 4 Shkurtit' Street,
Kseniya lvoy                      The World Bank                        Villa No. 34, Tirana, ALBANIA
Country M nager            INTERNA-IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Tel. (355) 4 280 650 /51
World Ban Office Tirana           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           Fax. (355)4 240 590
Europe & (,nitral Asia Region                                              Email: Klvovsky@worldbank.org
November 7, 2012
H.E. Ridvan Bode
Minister
Ministry of Finance
Tirana, Albania
Dear Mr. Minister,
Re: Swedish Grant Fo. IF012392-ALB (Grant for Co-financing of the
Land Adm iinistration and Management Project)
Addilional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Grant Agieement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Developmer t ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds
provided by Sweden, representec by Swedish International Development Corporation Agency
(SIDA) ("Donor"), arid Albanik (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced project, dated
November 7, 2012. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant TF012392-ALB ("Grant"). This
letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional
instructions.
The attached World Ban). Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guide ines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provi3ions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Gu.delines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capilalized terms used have the manings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangement
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2) The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment
* Special Commitments
Tel (35E) 4 280-650/51 E FAX (355) 4 240-590


﻿(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Grant Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the World Bank.
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the World Bank at the
address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s)
authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: Jane Armitage
Country Director for Western Balkans
Europe and Central Asia Region
(ii)) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank
Radnicka cesta 80, 9t floor
Zagreb, HR - 10 000
Croatia
Attention: Disbursement Management Group
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World
Bank for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such
officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the World
Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with Tokens for the designated officials.
Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing
Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of


﻿prepiring and delivering Applicat ons in paper form. The World Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discreti:n, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials
to accept Tokens and bY choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient
confims through the authorized s gnatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Secure Ident fica,'ion Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens") provided in Attachment 3; and (b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens to each such official and to cause such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value oJApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
USD 100,000.
(vi) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*  Type ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
* Currency ofDesignated Account (subsection 5.4): United States Dollar (USD)
* Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5:. Bank of Albania
* Ceiling (subsection 6.1) USD 400,000.
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for wiihdrawal a  set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursepnent and for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the
Designated Account:
o  Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g. copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for pay nents for Goods against contracts that are valued at
US$250,000 equ valent or more; for Technical services against contracts valued
at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more; for Consultants' services against contracts
valuec at US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms, and US$50,000 equivalent
or more for individual consultants;
o  Statement of Expenditures in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all other
expenditures / contracts
o  List of*payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 5); and
o  A designated account reconciliation statement (Attachment 6) and related bank
statement.


﻿* For requests for Direct Payment: Records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g.,
copies of receipts, supplier invoices.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the World Bank's public website at
https://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
https://clientconnection.worldbank.or,. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.orp). From this website
you will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact the World Bank by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Jose C. Janeiro, Senior
Finance Office at LOA-ECA(gworldbank.org using the above reference.
Sincerely,
Lorena Kstallari
Acting Country Manager
The World Bank, Tirana Office
Attachments:
. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Form for Authorized Signatures
3. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated January 20,
2010
4 .Form of Statement of Expenditures
5. Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
6. Form of Designated Account Reconciliation Statement


﻿Prepar.d by Marie Khoury - CTRLA
Cleare- with and cc:   Brenda Morata - LEGLE
Stephen Karain - Load Urban Economist - ECSS6


﻿Attachment 2
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Dear [Country Director]:
Re: Grant No. TF012392-ALB (Land Administration and Management Project)
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds
provided by Sweden, represented by Swedish International Development Corporation Agency
(SIDA) ("Donor"), and Albania (the "Recipient"), dated , providing the above Grant.
For the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the Standard Conditions, as defined in the Agreement,
any ['one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appear below is
authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications for withdrawal [and applications
for a special commitment] under this Grant.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the World Bank, 2[eachl of the persons
whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the
Recipient, acting 3[individually] 4[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support
thereof on the terms and conditions specified by the World Bank.
5[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to
deliver the Applications and supporting documents to the World Bank by electronic means. In
full recognition that the World Bank shall rely upon such representations and warranties,
including without limitation, the representations and warranties contained in the Terms and
1 Instruction to the Recipient when sending this letter to the World Bank: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign
Applications, and how many or which positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent
to the World Bank.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please indicate the actual
number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the World Bank.
Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not applicable, please
delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the World Bank.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the World Bank.
s Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept Tokens and to
deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final
letter that is sent to the World Bank.


﻿Conc, tions of Use of Sectre Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Docunentadion ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens"), the
Reci-ient represents and warrant; to the World Bank that it will deliver to each such person a
copy of the Terms and Condition. of Use of Tokens and will cause such persons to abide by
those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization repla(es and supersedes any Authorization currently in the World
Bank records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      3pecimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed/
Minister of Finance


﻿Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
January 20, 2010
The World Bank (Bank)6 will provide secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit the Borrower' to
deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under the Agreement(s) and
supporting documentation (such applications and supporting documentation together referred to in these
Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of
use specified herein.
A.      Identification of Users.
1.     The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL) duly
delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver Applications.
The Bank will provide Tokens to each person identified in the ASL (Signatory), as provided
below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if a Signatory is no longer
authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.     Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration on CC will
require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall not reveal
his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or other form. Upon
registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.     Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1.     The Bank will physically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be determined by and
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.     At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of these Terms
and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token.
3.     The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and Conditions of Use have
been duly delivered to and received by the CC User.
4.     Promptly upon receipt of the Token and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will access
CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and set a personal
identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her Token, after which the
Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Upon initialization of the Token, the Signatory will be a "Token User". The Bank
will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each Token User for purposes of
managing the Token of the Token User. Neither the Borrower nor the Token User will have any
access to the Account.
6 "Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
' "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance
and the recipient of a grant.
RCA 248423. Q WUI 64145 L FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿5.     Prior to first u;e of the Tokn by the Token User for delivering Applications, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the
Token.
6.     Tokens shall be promptly roturned to the Bank upon request of the Bank.
C.      Management of Tokens.
I.    Tokens will remain the pro erty of the Bank.
2.     Use of the Token is strictly limit.d to use in the delivery of Applications by the Token User in the
manner prescribed by the Eank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and Conditions. Any other
use of the Token is prohibiled.
3.     The Bank asstmes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the Token by the
Token User, o.her represen-,atives of the Borrower, or third parties.
4.     The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such representation
and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in delivery of a Token to each Token User)
that each Toktn User is prcvidec., understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of
Use, including without limitation the following:
Security
4.1.   The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or othcr form.
4.2.   The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an Application
to the Bank.
4.3.   The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4.    If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her Token
he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection@worldbank.org.
4.5.   The Borrower sha I imnediately notify the Bank at clientconnection(2worldbank.org of
any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and take other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are
disabled immtdiately.
Care of Tokens
4.6.   Tokels contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be
handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme temperatures,
crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from devices that generate
electromagnetic radiation (-MR), such as mobile phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and
other similar cevices. Tokens should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At
close range (lcss than 5 cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with
the proper operation of ele(troni; equipment, including the Token.
4.7     Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other  technical
iistructions on the proper use and cire Tokens are available at http://www.rsa.com.
5      Replacement
5.1.   Lost, damaged, ccmpromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at thc expense of the Borrower.


﻿5.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the case of
misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User's Account
6.     Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1.   The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User to use a
Token for any reason.
6.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently disable a
Token, de-activate a Token User's Account or both.


﻿Atachment4
Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
Payments made during the period from                    to                                                     Dae:
Applicaton No.:
r or cipvndiurn xia   i n  wu inacis ui 3ubjtxi Luic u  iuli RtvItW                                   Ir NU..
SOENo.:
im   utegory    Currencya  low       urrmcynd         tlple          Amount        LArrency ana      txcUngeae           KeM
No. No.(") Amount of Contract Total Amount of from Schedule Eligble for Amount Paid from (Col. 7 divided by
InvoiceCovered       2 of       Financing (4  S   6cial Account (if  Col. 6)
by Aplication     Lo/Credit       x5)          Appicable)
(Net of Rettion) Agreement
TOTALS                I_I
Supporting documents for this SOEretainedat
(insert
locaton)
(*)   A se    e SOE form should be used foretractive fiancing
(   It) Imsshouldbegroupedhycategoyoraltemnatively,aseparateSOEform maybesedforeachcategory
RCA 24423 U WUI 64145 WFAX (202) 477-31


﻿Attachment 5
Payments Made during Reporting Period
Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
Date of                      WB's Share of
WB's Non    Amount Paid to      Ami Paid to
Contract                     Contract      Contract      Objection   Supplier during   Supplier during
Number         Supplier       Date         Amount       to Contract      Period           Period


﻿Attachment 6
DESIGNATED ACCOUNT RECONCILIATION STATEMENT
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT?PPF/COFINANCIER NUMBER
ACCOUNT NUMBER ____     WITH (BANK)
1.   TOTAL ADVANCED BY WO 1LD BANK (OR COFINANCIER)  $
2    LESS: TOTAL AMOUNT RECOVERED BY WORLD BANK  -  $
3.   EQUALS PRESENT OUTSTANDING AMOUNT ADVANCED TO
THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT (N JMBER I LESS NUMBER 2)=  $
4.   BALANCE OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT PER ATTACHED BANK
STATEMENT AS OF DATE                $
5.   PLUS: TOTAL AMOUNT CL lMED IN THIS
APPLICATION Is O.         +    $                *
6.   PLUS: TOTAL A VIOUNT WI [HDRAWN AND NOT YET CLAIMED
REASON:                             +    $                *
7.   PLUS: AMOUNTS CLAIME, IN PREVIOUS APPLICATIONS
NOT YET CREDITED AT DATE OF BANK STATEMENTS
APPLICATION NO.       AMOUNT *7
SUBTOTAL OF PREVIOUS
APPLICATIONS NOT YET CREDITED +  $
8.   MINUS: INTEREST EARNED  -  $                *
9.   TOTAL ADVANCE ACCOU, TED FOR (NO. 4 THROUGH NO. 9) =  $
10.  EXPLANATION OF ANY DIf FERENCE BETWEEN THE TOTALS APPEARING ON LINES 3 AND
9:
11.  DATE:                     SIGNATURE:
TITLE:
* ALL ITEMS SHOULD BE INDICATED ON THE BANK STATEMENT


