Document of
The World Bank                     FILE C 0jY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.194 lb-ME
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
April 11, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit          =          Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1                              Mex$ 22.70 1/
Mex$ 1                            US$0.044
Mex$ 1 million         =          US$44,142
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF          Index of average cost of borrowed funds to financieras
FIDEIN       Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales,
y Centros Comerciales
FOGAIN       Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y
Pequefia
FOMEX        Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de los
Productos Manufacturados
FOMIN        Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONEI        Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEI-I      Bank Loan 824-ME, signed in June 1972
FONEI-II     Bank Loan 1205-ME, signed in April 1976
IMCE         Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior
IMIT         Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnol6gicas
NAFINSA      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization
Government of Mexico
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
1/  The exchange rate was US$1 = Mex$ 12.50 until September 1, 1976.  The peso
is now floating. The exchange rate per US$1 has fluctuated in recent
months between Mex$ 22.65 and 22.75.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO  .....        ...............  1
The Economic Setting ................................    1
The Manufacturing Sector .*------ .    1
Industrial Policies and Priorities.                            3
II.    INDUSTRIAL FINANCING ........................-                 6
The Banking System  ........................-                  6
The Trust Funds .....................................    7
Trends in Credit Availability .......................    8
Financial Policy and Interest Rates ............               8
III.    THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI)  ....        ...........  9
Objectives, Management and Organization ..............    9
Operating Policies and Procedures of FONEI ...........   12
Past Operations and Performance .....         ................   19
Financial Results ........        ...........................    21
IV.    FONEI'S FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESOURCE NEEDS .... ....   22
Operational Priorities .............. ................   22
Operations Forecast ................ .................    23
Resource Requirements  ............ .. ................   24
Projected Financial Results .--       .      ......................    25
V.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND THE BANK LOAN ....        ..........   26
The Proposed Bank Loan and its Features ....        .........   26
Project Justification and Risks .....         ................   30
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ........        ............................    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico between November 2 and November 18, 1977. The mission comprised
Messrs. Cook, Hutcheson and Challa (LCPID).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
Annex 2  Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
Annex 3  FONEI's Development Strategy Paper
Annex 4  Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
Annex 5  Estimation of the Foreign Exchange Component of Domestic
Fixed Assets Financed by FONEI
Annex 6  Supporting Tables
T-1:     Imports as Ratios to Domestic Demand 1967-1974
T-2:     Manufactured Exports 1965-1976
T-3:     Indicators of Resource  obbilization and Credit Availability
from the Mexican Banking System (as at year-end) 1970-1976
T-4:     Characteristics of FONEI Approvals
T-5:     FONEI's Income Statement and Balance Sheet 1972-1977
T-6:     FONEI:  Operations Projections 1978-1982
T-7:     FONEI:  Loan Commitments and Resources 1978-1982
T-8:     FONEI:  Resource Position 1978-1982
T-9:     FONEI:  Past and Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
T-10:    FONEI:  Past and Projected Balance Sheets
T-ll:    FONEI:  Past and Projected Income Statements
T-12:    FONEI:  Principal Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
T-13:    Projected and Realized Exports of a Sample of Enterprises
Financed by FONEI
Annex 7  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
I. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO
The Economic Setting
1.01      Prior to 1974  Mexico had sustained a high rate of economic expansion
for more than two decades with GDP growth averaging almost 7% annually. For
most of this period, the balance of payments was in equilibrium and inflation
averaged less than 5% per year, allowing a stable exchange rate of 12.5 pesos
to the US dollar. In 1974 and 1975 the pace of growth slowed down as the economy
was increasingly affected by rising domestic inflation, shortage of credit to
the private sector, and the impacts of the oil price rise and the deepening
recession in world trade. The GDP growth rate fell to 5.9% in 1974 and 4.2% in
1975. Measures adopted to control inflation and reduce the mounting balance of
payments and fiscal deficits led to a further slowdown of GDP growth to 2.0% in
1976. Although the trade balance improved somewhat, continuing high inflation
(averaging 16.5% in 1975 and 22% in 1976) led to the abandonment of the fixed
parity in September 1976; since then the exchange rate has been floating and
has increased by approximately 80% in US dollar terms. As a result of slower
economic growth since 1974, unemployment and particularly underemployment
have increased significantly, and high inflation has had an adverse impact on
the real incomes of the poorer sections of the population.
1.02      Faced with a very difficult economic situation, the new Government that
took office in December 1976 moved rapidly to introduce a package of measures
designed to stabilize the economy, rekindle economic growth, restore investor
confidence and increase employment. The strategies adopted of controlling public
sector expenditures, raising interest rates to stimulate private savings,
encouraging private sector investment and maintaining a floating exchange rate
are having a positive impact on the economy. Inflation, which was running at
an annual rate of almost 60% in the first 3 months following devaluation in
September 1976,has declined steadily during 1977 and averaged about 21% for the
year as whole. The balance of payments is improving partly as a result of an
increase in exports of petroleum and manufactured products. Resource mobilization
by the banking system is recovering and the substantial capital flight that took
place at the time of devaluation has now stopped,allowing credit to the private
sector to be increased. Given a continuation of appropriate policies, prospects
are good for a progressive   acceleration of economic growth.  Based on progress
achieved during 1977 and rapidly rising petroleum output and exports, the
Government's targets to get the economy back on a high growth path (i.e. 6-7% p.a.)
by 1979 and reduce inflation to international levels shortly thereafter appear feasible.
The Manufacturing Sector
1.03      During the period of rapid economic expansion until 1974  industry was
one of the most dynamic sectors. Between 1960 and 1974 manufacturing output
increased on average by 8.3% per annum, and manufacturing increased its
contribution to GDP from 19.2% to 23.8%. Its share of total employment has



-2-
reached 17%, and its share of merchandise exports, 43%. 1/ This impressive
performance was fostered by an active class of entrepreneurs, the comparatively
large and growing domestic market, proximity to the high income US market,
favorable government policies and the availability of investment finance.
1.04      Industrial development has followed a pattern common to several other
large LDCs, with primary emphasis being placed on import substitution during
the fifties and sixties. By 1970 Mexico had achieved a substantial degree of
import independence with manufactured imports accounting for about 10% of
domestic demand. Almost all nondurable consumer goods and 89% of intermediate
goods were supplied domestically, but about 30% of nondurable consumer goods and
capital goods were still imported. By 1974 imports were significant only for
basic and secondary chemicals, synthetics and plastics, capital goods
(particularly mechanical machinery and transport equipment) and the miscellaneous
category (see Annex 6, T-1). After 1970 increased emphasis was placed on promoting
manufactured exports, which grew from US$353.5 million in 1970 to 1,242 million
in 1974. 2/
1.04      Recent performance.  Even before 1974  the pace of industrial expansion
was beginning to slacken as opportunities for further efficient import
substitution became fewer and more difficult to realize and exports, while
growing quite rapidly, still represented only about 4% of gross output. The
rate of growth of manufacturing output averaged 6.6% in 1970 to 1974, compared to
9.1% in the previous decade. The mounting economic difficulties of 1974 to
1977 accentuated this trend as industry was increasingly affected by tighter
credit, slow growth of the domestic market, the world trade recession, the
growing overvaluation of the peso and the uncertainties caused by its eventual
devaluation. Manufacturing output growth fell to 4.7% in 1975 and 2.6% in 1976.
During the early months of 1977 output declined in real terms, but growth
resumed during the last three quarters of the year as the policy measures
introduced by the new administration began to restore economic stability and
private sector confidence and the more realistic exchange rate facilitated
export growth. Over the year, a modest growth of 2-3% is estimated to have
occurred, about equal to growth in GDP.
1.05      Employment and wages. Between 1950 and 1969  employment in manufacturing
grew by 4.9% p.a., significantly faster than the labor force was growing (2.4% p.a.)
Thus, manufacturing industry was able to provide employment to 20-30% of new
entrants to the labor force during this period. But from 1970 to 1975 manufacturing
employment grew by only 2% p.a., and since 1975 there has been almost no growth in
manufacturing employment. With the slower rates of industrial and economic expansion
in the last few years, unemployment and underemployment have increased. Open unemploy-
ment, which was estimated at 4% in the 1970 census, had risen to about 6% by the end
of 1976 and has worsened since then. An even more serious problem is under-
employment, as more than 40% of workers are being engaged in part time and
low productivity activities for which they earn less than the minimum daily wage.
1/ These figures are taken from the industrial censuses of 1960 to 1975. They exclude
petroleum refining, basic petrochemicals and the extraction of minerals. The
Population Census uses a broader definition of manufacturing and therefore
indicates a higher contribution of the sector to total employment.
2/ These figures exclude exports by border assembly plants, and exports of sugar,
primary non-ferrous metals and petroleum products.



-3-
1.06      Between 1960 and 1976 the average industrial wage, which is higher
than that of most other sectors, increased by about 4.2% annually in real
terms,led by minimum wages that grew slightly faster (at 4.9% p.a.). Over
this period, and particularly after 1972, average wages rose faster in Mexico
than in the United States, and Mexico lost some of its comparative advantage.
Average Wages in Manufacturing 1960-76
(dollars per hour)
Dec.
1960-65    1966-70    1971-72      1973      1974      1975     1976
Mexico             .49        .70         .87        1.0     1.28      1.45     1.18
USA               2.43       3.03        3.69       4.07    4.40      4.79      5.40
Mexico/USA (%)    20          23          24          25      29        30       22
Output per worker in Mexican manufacturing grew somewhat faster than wages, at
5-6% per annum.  Such a high rate of growth of labor productivity was
attributable more to a shift towards more capital-intensive processes than to a
shift towards more capital-intensive products, which was encouraged by an
increasingly overvalued exchange rate. The peso devaluation in 1976 restored
Mexico's comparative advantage in labor costs to the level established in 1966-70,
and the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate should avoid excessive distortions
in the relative cost of capital and labor in the future.
Industrial Policies and Priorities
1.07      While the new Mexican administration concentrated its efforts on restoring
economic stability in the short term,priority is being given in the medium term
to regaining a rapid rate of industrial growth in order to increase employment,
reduce the trade deficit and stimulate growth in other sectors. The Government
is currently in the process of reviewing and revising its industrial policies,
but has indicated that emphasis is to be placed on taking advantage of remaining
opportunities for efficient import substitution (particularly in the capital
goods and chemicals sectors), diversifying and expanding manufactured exports,
and promoting more rapid development of industrial and related activities outside
the present areas of industrial concentration. The proposed project is designed
to support these objectives by helping industrialists to design, and obtain
adequate financing for, export projects and efficient import substitution projects,
with increased promotional attention being given to projects outside of the Mexico
City area (para. 1.12).
1.08      Efficient import substitution.  Until 1970 Mexico's industrialization
strategy emphasized import substitution, and protection for local manufacturing
remains an important feature of industrial policy. Protection was given both by
tariffs and, more importantly, by quantitative restrictions. Although some
tariffs were as high as 100%, most lay in the 10-30% range and became subject to
numerous exceptions,especially for public sector imports of capital goods.



-4-
Quantitative restrictions on the other hand have tended to become more widespread
as the process of import substitution progressed, with the proportion of imported
items subject to license rising from one third in 1950 to four fifths in 1976.
However, levels of realized protection have been held down by internal competition
and the possibility of smuggling, and were further reduced during the mid-1970s
by the overvaluation of the exchange rate.  With  some   exceptions, the industrial
sector has developed with relative efficiency. In 1970 industrial prices were
only about 15% higher than international levels, and only 19% higher in 1975.1/
Effective protection averaged 30% to 40% in the 1970-1975 period. Price and exchange
rate movements since 1975 indicate that average industrial prices in 1977 were close to
international levels and that effective protection had been reduced substantially.
1,09      With import substitution almost complete in many industrial subsectors,
Government policy is focussing on two main themes: encouraging improvements
in efficiency in those subsectors where prices are still above international levels;
and tackling the two remaining areas where there are significant opportunities for
further import substitution, namely the mechanical engineering and capital goods
subsectors, and basic and secondary chemicals and related products. To
encourage greater efficiency in new and existing industries, the Government plans
to reduce progressively the number of products subject to import licensing (400
products were freed from licensing during 1977) 2/and to rely in future more on
the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate and moderate tariff protection.
In addition, steps are being taken to remove some of the obstacles to domestic
capital goods production (e.g. procurement policies and procedures of key public
sector agencies which are unfavorable to domestic manufacturers, and shortage of
sales financing on adequate terms) that have restricted the growth of this subsector.
Finally, a substantial proportion of future public investment is being earmarked for
the petroleum and basic petrochemical subsectors, which should open up greater
opportunities for the private sector in down-stream production of secondary
chemicals, plastics and synthetics.
1.10      Export axpansion. Because of its proximity to the United States, a  well
developed and reasonably efficient industrial sector, and abundant natural and human
resources and comparative advantage in labor costs, Mexico has considerable
potential as an exporter of manufactures. Prior to 1970, however, manufactured
exports developed rather slowly mainly because the rapidly growing and protected
domestic market appeared to offer more profitable and less risky opportunities to
industrialists under prevailing government policies. Responding to the introduction
of export incentives in 1971, comprising rebates of indirect taxes, duty exemption
on imports, and increased credit at concessionary terms to finance export production
and sales, manufactured exports grew at 36% p.a. between 1970 and 1974 compared to
only 5.6% p.a. in the previous decade. While there was an increasing diversification
in the range of goods exported and in trading partners during this period, exports
tended to be concentrated in comparatively few sectors (automotive parts; textiles,
garments and footwear; food products and basic chemicals accounted for 73% of
exports by value) and the United States continued to be the most important trading
partner, absorbing about 70% of manufactured exports. More favorable treatment
granted after 1971 to foreign companies establishing assembly plants in the border
areas to supply the US market also stimulated rapid growth in their exports from
US$215 million in 1970 to US$1,030 million in 1974. However, despite this rapid
growth in exports by Mexican manufacturing companies and by assembly plants, by
1974 the total value added in all manufactured exports, including assembly
industries, still represented only 4.7% of total value added in manufacturing,
1/ These figures are net of estimated peso overvaluation of 3% in 1970 and 1B% in 1975.
2/ Products freed from licensing so far do not represent a very substantial proportion
of manufactured imports but the Government has announced its intention to remove
licensing for the majority of imported products over the next 4-5 years.



- 5 -
leaving substantial scope for further export growth (Annex 6, T-2). In 1975 and
1976 the world recession and increasingly overvalued peso led to a slight decline
(-2.1% p.a.) in the US dollar value of manufactured exports, but since devaluation
export growth has resumed. With present policies of maintaining appropriate
export incentives and a realistic exchange rate, prospects are good for continued
rapid expansion of manufactured exports to provide a major stimulus to industrial
and economic growth.
1.11      Industrial decentralization and tegional development.  In recent years
concern has increased about the heavy concentration of industry and employment in
a few large metropolitan areas, particularly Mexico City,and the growing
disparities in employment opportunities and incomes between these areas and the
rest of the country. At its present rate of population growth Mexico City would
surpass 35 million by the year 2000 but pollution levels and the cost of providing
municipal services, particularly water, are already posing severe problems. In
1970-1972 industrial decentralization incentives were introduced. For this purpose,
the country was divided into 3 zones defined as follows: Zone I - the metropolitan
area of Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey; Zone II - the areas adjacent to
Zone I and several intermediate cities near Mexico City; Zone III - the rest of
the country. Firms locating or expanding in Zones II or III receive reductions on
income and sales taxes and partial or full exemptions from import duties on capital
goods and other production inputs.
1.12      Despite the high level of these incentives, results have been
disappointing. The most noticeable impact has been in Zone II, where some firms
have been established just across the zone limit contiguous to Zone I. Moreover,
the incentives are mostly subsidies to fixed investment leading to comparatively
little decentralization of jobs. The failure to provide greater incentives to
Guadalajara and Monterrey as counter attractions to Mexico City has also been
questioned. In addition, the current legislation did little to reduce the
substantial advantages for locating in Mexico City represented by suverior infra-
structure, proximity to markets, and federal subsidies to transport and education
costs available only in the capital. Currently, decentralization policy is under
review to better focus the incentives on a restricted number of localities with
potential to become growth poles, to eliminate their bias in favor of capital-
intensive investment, and to increase the range of policy instruments used. Of
particular relevance to the proposed project is the intention to speed up the
development of the Isthmus of Tehuantapec region based on the efficient import
substitution opportunities offered by the rapidly expanding petroleum, natural gas
and basic petrochemical industries, and to further develop the production of
exportable goods and services in the northern border areas to take greater
advantage of opportunities offered by the proximity to major US markets.
Outlook for Industry and for Industrial Investment
1.13      In view of the success achieved by the new administration during 1977 in
stabilizing the economy and restoring private sector confidence and the generally
favorable industrial policies being followed by this administration, prospects
appear good for industry to regain by the early 1980s the high rates of growth
achieved in 1960s. Industrial output is expected to rise by 4% to 5% in 1978
and to grow faster in subsequent years as rapidly rising petroleum output and exports
reduce the foreign exchange constraint and stimulate the economy to 6-8% growth



-6-
rates in 1979-1980. There are substantial opportunities for growth in a number
of industrial subsectors, including basic and secondary chemicals, plastics
and synthetic fibers, extraction and processing of metals and minerals,
processing of agricultural and seafood products, mechanical engineering and
the production of capital goods. Furthermore, Mexican industry now has an
excellent opportunity to continue building on the successful export performance
of the early 1970s and to substantially expand the volume and range of goods
exported.
1.14      After several years in which private investment  in industry has been
virtually stagnant, an increased rate of industrial investment will be required
to support future growth. During the 1960s private investment grew at about 9%
annually in real terms, almost exactly the same rate as manufacturing output was
growing. Between 1970 and 1976 private investment grew at only 3.2% p.a. while
manufacturing output growth averaged more than 5% p.a. over the same period.
During the second half of 1977 some recovery of industrial investment was
apparent and this trend is expected to strengthen during 1978. In the next 2-3
years investment is projected to grow by 8-10% p.a. in real terms. However,
the achievement of these rates of investment will be dependent on industry's
access to sufficient volumes of credit at suitable terms since profit margins
and corporate savings have declined significantly during the recent recessionary
period.
II. INDUSTRIAL FINANCING
The Banking System
2.01      Mexico's well-developed banking system, comprising almost 200 private,
mixed and publicly owned institutions, with the Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank)
at its apex, has played a major role in financing the development of industry and
the other productive sectors of the economy. Private and mixed financial institutions
are of three main types: some 97 commercial banks which, as of November 30, 1977,
had deposits of around US$5.6 billion equivalent from the public primarily through
checking and savings accounts; 71 investment banks (financieras) which had around
US$6.2 billion equivalent in short and medium term bonds and certificates of deposit,
and are able to make longer term loans than commercial banks; and 21 mortgage ba-nks
(hipotecarias) which had about US$1.8 billion equivalent raised in a similar way
to investment banks but used mainly for financing residential and commercial
construction. Eleven large financial groups--each made up of one or more commercial
banks with branches throughout the country, an investment bank and a mortgage bank--
account for more than three quarters of banking deposits and credits. In recent
years the authorities have been encouraging the consolidation of the smaller banks
into new medium-sized financial groups, and the transformation of these groups into
multibanks able to offer a full range of financial services through their branch
offices. The reasons for this are to simplify administration of the reserve require-
ment system, increase the financing capacity of the medium sized groups and improve
their competitive position, and improve access to the full range of financial
services outside the biggest cities.
2.02      During the 1960s  and early 1970s the banking system developed rapidly,
with the volume of outstanding credit growing faster than GDP and the average
term of credit lengthening. Mexico's open financial system allowed free flow of
capital into and out of the country, and the long period of exchange rate stability



-7-
encouraged US deposits in Mexican banks and foreign borrowings by Mexican firms.
This process was facilitated by sound interest rate policies, maintaining positive
real interest rates and a small premium of Mexican interest rates over those
offered on US dollar deposits. Nevertheless, certain structural weaknesses were
apparent by the early 1970s. One was excessive traditionalism in credit allocation.
Guarantees substantially in excess of the legal minimum (133% of credit granted)
were required, and even credit for projects requiring term financing was decided
primarily on the basis of the financial strength and reputation of the sponsoring
enterprise and its owners,rather than on the basis of an appraisal of the merits
and income earning characteristics of the investment project. Another weakness
was the excessively short-term structure of the banking system's
liabilities brought about in part by the liquidity preference of savers in a
situation where insufficient interest rate premia were offered for longer term
savings. As a result, banks were both limited in the amount of longer term
financing they could provide and forced into a rather high degree of term
transformation. Because of the above weakness, there was a tendency for credit,
particularly term credit, to be concentrated in firms and sectors that were
already well established,to the detriment of new firms and more innovative activities.
The Trust Funds
2.03      To overcome the weaknesses mentioned above, the financial authorities
progressively developed a system of trust funds, whose resources come mainly from
the legal reserves of the banking system, to allocate credit on appropriate terms
to priority activities in the fields of agriculture, industry and tourism. Banks
are able to obtain partial financing from these trust funds for term loans they
make for projects which meet the eligibility requirements and lending terms and
conditions of the appropriate trust fund. The five trust funds designed to
support industry can be divided into two groups. Nacional Financiera S.A.,
the main public sector development bank, administers three trust funds which are
designed to support the development of small and medium scale industry; 1/ Banco
de Mexico administers two other closely related trust funds: Fondo Nacional de
Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) and Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones
de los Productos Manufacturados (FOMEX). The former provides medium and long
term financing for investment projects designed to increase exports or efficiently
substitute imports and the latter shorter term financing for export production and
sales. In addition, in order to support the domestic capital goods industry, FOMEX
has recently been authorized, and provided additional resources, to finance the sale
of domestically manufactured capital goods to Mexican buyers. FONEI, which has
received two previous Bank loans, will be the executing trust fund for the proposed
project. A separate Bank project to assist small and medium industry has been
prepared which involves the aforementioned trust funds administered by Nacional
Financiera.
1/ These trust funds are: (1) Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Pequefia
y Mediana (FOGAIN) which discounts bank loans to small and medium sized
industrial firms; (2) Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
(FIDEIN) which is charged with developing industrial estates and financing
factory buildings and other equipment for firms locating in these estates; and
(3) Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN) which makes minority risk
investments in small and medium sized firms.



-8-
Trends in Credit Availability
2.04      Since 1973 increased inflation (averaging 20% from 1974-1976) and tighter
control of credit expansion and interest rates have slowed down the growth of the
financial system and reduced credit availability (particularly longer-term credit).
Failure to increase interest rates sufficiently and maintain an adequate premium
of Mexican rates over foreign rates, together with growing exchange rate
uncertainty led to a fall in resource mobilization by the banking system and non-
monetary peso liabilities 1/ of the system fell from 32% of GDP in 1972 to 22% in 1976.
In addition, the deepening public sector deficit forced Banco de Mexico to raise
reserve requirements, further reducing credit availability to the private sector which
fell from 23% of GDP in 1972 to t8% in 1976 (Annex 6, T-3).2/Furthermore, as resource
mobilization declined, banks reduced the average maturity of their credit so that
by 1976 few loans of more than 5-year terms were being granted except with trust fund
resources.
2.05      The 1976 peso devaluation accentuated the problems of credit scarcity.
In the months surrounding the devaluation financial savings contracted sharply
and capital flight accelerated. While the financial policies followed by the new
administration (see para. 2.07) have resulted in a sianificant recovery of the
financial system during 1977, term industrial credit seems likely to remain in very
short supply for the next 2 to 3 years. Credit scarcity is compounded by the
fact that the larger companies, which relied increasingly on borrowings from
foreign commercial sources during 1974 to 1976, suffered significant losses as a
result of devaluation and are now reverting to borrowing in the domestic market.
2.06      The trust funds have a vital role to play in the recovery of the financial
system and the alleviation of credit shortage. Over the next several years they
must provide a significant proportion of the term credit needs of the sectord in
which they operate. To augment the resources made available to these funds from
banking system reserves, the Mexican authorities are seeking additional loans from
international agencies. Bank loans have been requested for the trust funds serving
agriculture, tourism, and small and medium industry in addition to the proposed loan
for FONEI. In the longer run, an important role of the trust funds is to influence
the banking system in its allocation of credit that does not flow through the funds
themselves. For example, one of FONEI's objectives is to encourage the banks to
take their lending decisions on the basis of project appraisals rather than relying
mainly on the amount of collateral offered, in order to improve the allocative
efficiency of the system.
Financial Policy and Interest Rates
2.07      With the continuation of prudent demand management implied in the recent
budget, the inflation rate is expected to fall from 21% in 1977 to around 16% in
1978-79 and to decline progressively to international levels by 1981 or 1982. To
boost peso denominated savings and reverse capital flight, in May 1977 investment
banks and mortgage banks were authorized to offer higher maximum interest rates
on time deposits ranging from 7% for call money to 18.5% on 2-year certificates
of deposit.3/ The introduction of these new rates has had a very positive affect
on increasing overall resource mobilization by the banks and on improving the
term structure of bank liabilities. Depending on the future course of domestic
and world inflation and general trends in international interest rates, the
1/ The term non-monetary peso liabilities is used to refer to all liabilities other
than checking accounts and other demand deposits.
2/ As of February 28, 1977, total outstanding banking system credit to the private
sector stood at Mex$ 229.7 billion (about US$10.1 billion equivalent) including
'    Mex$66.3 billion (about US$2.9 billion equivalent) to manufacturing industry.
31 Actual interest rate received by Investors range from 5.6% p.a. to 16' p.a. after
taking into account withholding taxes.



- 9 -
authorities have announced their intention of making further adjustments in
maximum permitted rates so as to sustain a healthy growth in financial savings.
In a parallel move to avoid concentration of scarce credit in the largest and
safest borrowers, stricter limits have been placed on the amounts that individual
banks can lend to a single firm or group of related firms.
2.08      On the lending side, banks and financieras have been switching
increasingly to a system of floating interest rates on medium and long term
loans to reflect the increased uncertainty about their future borrowing costs
and to avoid a situation in which companies are inhibited from investing for
fear of being locked in to high interest rates when inflation declines. Most
banks are now relating their interest rates to the index of the average cost of
borrowed funds to financieras (the ACF Index), which is computed monthly by the
Banco de Mexico (see Annex 1). Between May 1977 and March 1978 this index has
increased from 11.9% to 14.9%, a level which is approximately equal to the annual rate
of inflation recorded in the last quarter of 1977. Banks are presently charging
their clients rates of 3-7 points higher than this index (i.e. 18-22% p.a.), but
the banks margins are e±xpected to be reduced somewhat over the coming year as
their resource position improves and they overcome the problem of funding out-
standing term loans made in the past at low fixed interest rates. Changes have
also been made in the on-lending rates of the trust funds, which have started
to relate their rates to the ACF Index. FONEI, which introduced floating interest
rates in connection with the previous Bank loan (Loan 1205-ME), charges its
intermediaries an interest rate equal to the ACF Index and the final borrowers pay a
rate 2 points higher (i.e. 17.0% p.a.at present). 1/ The other trust funds are now
revising their rates to bring them into line with those of FONEI. Based on the
pre-1973 experience, the ACF Index is expected to settle down at a level 2-3
percentage points above the inflation rate as the economy and financial system
return to stability (see Annex 1).
III. THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI)
Objectives, Management and Organization
3.01      Following discussions between the Mexican authorities and the Bank on
the design of an appropriate mechanism to address Mexico's problems of improving
industrial efficiency, strengthening the balance of payments, and increasing long
term industrial financing, FONEI was established in 1971 as a government trust
fund with Banco de Mexico as trustee. FONEI provides financing by discounting
term loans made by financial intermediaries (commercial and investment banks),
for industrial projects that would have a positive effect on the balance of
payments through exports or efficient substitution of imports. FONEI seeks to
promote industrial efficiency by encouraging industrial enterprises to prepare
detailed feasibility studies of their projects and the financial intermediaries
to base their lending decisions on a careful appraisal of the project. To help
in achieving these objectives, the Bank made two previous loans to FONEI--the
first (Loan 824-ME) for US$35 million in June 1972 and the second (Loan 1205-ME)
for US$50 million in April 1976.
1/ When adjusting its interest rates to take into account movements in the ACF index,,
FONEI rounds to the nearest quarter of one percentage point (see para. 3.10).



- 10 -
3.02      The highest decision-making body of FONEI is its Board (called the
Technical Committee),which is composed mainly of high level government officials.
Its 10 members include representatives of the Ministries of Finance, of National
Patrimony and Industrial Development, and of Commerce, Banco de Mexico, Nacional
Financiera, Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT) 1/, and two
representatives of the private sector nominated by the chambers of commerce and
industry 2/. The Director of Credit of the Ministry of Finance chairs the Technical
Committee. The Committee, which takes active interest in directing FONEI's
activities, meets about once a month to discuss policy issues such as the type
of enterprises supported by FONEI, characteristics of its financing, sectoral and
geographical priorities, and FONEI's strategy for future development. The Committee
also considers and authorizes all proposals for FONEI's financing. The representatives
of Banco de Mexico tend to be the most active members of the Committee. As the
trustee, Banco de Mexico also provides FONEI the required staffing, office
facilities and administrative services.
3.03      FONEI's chief executive is its Director.  Since inception FONEI has
had three Directors. The first two helped FONEI establish itself as an effective
and competent financing institution and to become known among the industrial and
banking communities. Mr. Villasefior, who has been FONEI's Director since December
1976, is well motivated and is providing enthusiastic and dynamic leadership to
the staff of 21 professionals. He has been paying particular attention to expanding
the scope and quality of FONEI's activities and promoting FONEI's operations
throughout Mexico. Mr. Villasejior is assisted by two well-qualified and capable
sub-directors--Mr. Rodriguez, who has the overall responsibility for the technical
departments, and Mr. Acevedo, who has overall responsibility for loan administration
and financial matters.
3.04      Under the leadership of the Director and his deputies, FONEI's personnel
are organized in four departments, namely the Evaluation, Supervision, Accounting
and Operations Departments, each headed by a department manager (see Organization
Chart on page 11). This represents the result of a stre'amlining of the organization
structure which FONEI undertook last year on its own initiative, and the recent
(November 1977) creation of a 3-member Supervision Department to formalize and
expand FONEI's subproject follow-up activities, which were earlier being carried
out at a modest level by the Evaluation Department.
1/ IMIT is a research and development institution that is also the consultant most
frequently used by FONEI to carry out its project appraisals (see para. 3.12).
2/ Confederaci6n de Camaras Industriales (CONCAMIN) which is the federation
of all chambers of commerce representing industry in Mexico, and Camara Nacional
de Industria de Transformaci6nn (CANACINTRA), which is the chamber representing
small and medium scale industry.



- 11 -
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FONEI a!
|TFCHNICAL COMMITmTEE
DIRECTOR
Jesus Villasenor N.
SUB-DIRECTOR (Technical)n   in                S-DIRECTOR (Operations and Finance
Lic. Manuel Rodriguez Cc . All t DepaR  n     pito Raul Acevedo C.   b
to theneedsof theinstiution   In orderd  to mee  th  exadnJcp   n ee
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nl
EVALUATION      ||SUPERVISION             ||OPERATIONS       |        ACCOUNTING
DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT
Ing. Fernando Salinas B.  Ing. Arturo Palacios . Armando Vlasquez A.  Jose Enmilio
of i fs , oBecker R.
evauaionan  suerison  apbiltis  ypovdinaprpriateiotrAiconiLng
fAcilities  t  its staff.|Theseplans,whicharereflectei Operantions  te DAvopnt
full supprt,espeialythougfaca(2)           iSnecialista   othrank
l         ~~~~~(6)              (1)
al Figures in parantheses indicate the number of professional staff under the respective department, as of
,iovember 30, 1977.
i.05     Following the change  in the Presidential administration in Mexico in late
1976, FONEI experienced a substantial turnover and some extended vacancies in its
professional staff, especially in the technical departments.  However, FONEI
appears to have overcome these difficulties and a stabilization of its professional
staff can now be expected.  All the department manager positions have now been
filled with competent people. FONEI's present second level management and
professional staff are relatively young, but generally well qualified and responsive
to the needs of the institution. In order to meet the expanding scope and level
(paras.4.01 to 4.03) of its operations, FONEI is planning to increase the number
of its profesional staff, and to further 'strengthen its project
evaluation and supervision capabilities by providing appropriate training
facilities to its staff. These planis, which are reflected in the Development
Strategy Paper recently drafted by FONEI (see para. 3.23), merit the Bank's
full support, especially through facilitating training at EDI and other Bank-
sponsored training programs. 1/ FONEI recognizes that further staff turnover is
likely to occur from time to time, since its professional staff gets valuable
.1/ A beginning has already been made in this respect. As part of the Bank's assistance
in training during the progress of the FONEI-II Loan, one of FONEI's senior
analysts participated in the Developing Banking Course offered by EDI, and another
analyst visited Washington for two weeks for familiarization with the Bank's
operations, project evaluation procedures and experience with other DFCs. In
addition, Mr. Fernando Salinas, the current head of FONEI's Technical Department,
recently participated in a three-month Industrial Projects Course in Tokyo (during
October-December, 1977) sponsored jointly by EDI and the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency.



- 12 -
training and exposure while working with F'NEI and may be offered attractive
opportunities from the private industrial sector. In future, FONEI therefore
intends to have a sufficient number of analysts in training to provide an
allowance for any future turnover of professional staff.
Operating Policies and Procedures of FONEI
3.06      Operating regulations and nature of projects financed.  The policies and
procedures which govern FONEI's lending operations are set forth in its Operating
Regulations (see Annex 2). These Operating Regulations, which may be modified by
FONEI's Technical Committee in consultation with the Bank, specify the type of
projects that can be financed by FONEI, terms and limits of financing, interest
rates, criteria for project selection, responsibilities of the intermediaries and
the final beneficiaries, and procedures for FONEI's authorization of financing.
The Operating Regulations allow FONEI to partially finance loans by credit
institutions for the purchase and installation of fixed assets, including
machinery and equipment, construction of buildings and other civil works provided
that the projects supported involve creation of new productive capacity, expansion
of existing capacity or provision of services leading to a favorable balance of
payments impact through exports or efficient substitution of imports. 1/
3.07      To qualify for an export project, FONEI requires the borrowing enterprise
to demonstrate that the products manufactured can compete in price and quality
with comparable international products, and that the foreign exchange earnings
generated by the project in the first five years of its operation will be sufficient
to cover all its investment and other costs in foreign exchange. To qualify for
an import substitution project, the enterprise must demonstrate that the project
is economically efficient and that the foreign exchange savings attributable to
the project in the first five years of its operation would cover the corresponding
foreign exchange costs. In order to ensure efficiency in the case of import
substitution projects, under the first FONEI loan FONEI's Operating Regulations
included a requirement that the domestic sales price of the products should not
exceed the c.i.f. prices of similar imported products by more than 25%. However,
FONEI in consultation with the Bank, now uses a more comprehensive procedure for
ensuring economic efficiency,i.e. economic rate of return (ERR) calculations
using international prices for both inputs and outputs on all its projects. 2/
3.08      Terms and limits of financing.  According to FONEI's Operating Regulations,
the minimum amount of financing provided by FONEI for a single investment project
is Mex$4.5 million (about US$200,000 equivalent), and the maximum size is Mex$100 mil-
lion (US$4.4 million equivalent). These limits reflect upward revisions last year
1/ FONEI defines as an 'import substitution project' any project whose products would
replace either (i) already existing imports of similar products or (ii) imports
that would be necessary in the absence of the project, after taking into account
expected growth of domestic demand, installed capacity and planned expansions in
capacity to manufacture comparable products.
2/ Applying a methodology similar to that recommended under standard Bank guidelines
for DFC subprojects.



- 13 -
(from a minimum limit of Mex$3.5 million and maximum limit of Mex$37.5 million
prevailing at the time of signing of loans 824-ME and 1205-ME) to take
account of the effects of devaluation and world inflation on the cost of imported
capital goods.  The upper limit is approximately equal in real terms to the
limit of Mex$37.3 million set when FONEI.was established in 1971. In addition,
to facilitate FONEI's meaningful participation in relatively large projects in
priority sectors such as capital goods and secondary petrochemical production,
FONEI can approve financing in excess of Mex$100 million in exceptional cases
provided that prior authorization is obtained from the Ministry of Finance.
FONEI's larger minimum loan size now matches the upper limit for FOGAIN's fixed
asset loans. FONEI's loans have maximum maturities of 13 years including up
to three years of grace. 1/
3.09      Within the above-mentioned limits, FONEI participates jointly with the
financial intermediary and the final borrower in the financing of fixed asset
costs of projects. To ensure that client companies have an adequate capital
base, FONEI's financing is limited to 65% of the fixed asset costs in the case
of new companies and 72% of fixed asset costs in the case of expansion projects.
The intermediary iE required to provide financing of at least 15% of FONEI's
financing in the cese of new projects and 11% in the case of expansion projects.
In addition, the intermediary is required by FONEI to ensure that the projects
have adequate working capital financing. Thus, the final borrower has to
finance at least 25% (new projects) or 20% (expansion projects) of the fixed
asset costs and part or all of the permanent working capital. In practice, the
amount of financing that FONEI provides for a particular project is determined as
a result of the project appraisal, and averages about 50% of the fixed asset
cost or 40% of the total project cost.
3.10      Interest rates. Under the First Bank Loan (Loan 824-ME), FONEI charged
a fixed interest rate of 11% in pesos to final borrowers, including a spread of
two percentage points to the intermediary bank. In connection with the Second
Bank Loan, FONEI agreed to adopt a new interest rate structure to better reflect
trends in interest rates being charged by banks on term loans made with their
own resources. Specifically, FONEI's interest rate to final borrowers was set
at 1.5 points above the index of the average cost of funds to financieras (ACF
Index) rounded to the nearest quarter percentage point. Final borrowers
were given the option to accept a fixed interest rate equal to the FONEI
interest rate at the time of signing of the subloan agreement, or a floating
interest adjusted every six months to match FONEI's interest rate prevailing at
the time of the interest payment. In practice, however, none of FONEI's final
borrowers opted for the floating interest rate due to investors' expectation
of high inflation rates and the resulting large uncertainties regarding interest
rates.
3.11      Reflecting continued trends in the banking system towards the use of
fully floating interest rates based on the ACF Index (see para. 2.08), FONEI,
in consultation with the Bank, decided to further modify its interest rate
structure in April 1977 when about one half of the Bank Loan was committed.
Since then, its interest rate has been set at 2.0 percentage points above the
ACF Index 2/ and final borrowers are no longer offered the option of fixed interest
rate subloans.  As of  March  1978 FONEI's interest rate (based on the ACF Index of
14.9%) was 17.0% which is slightly higher than the annual rate of inflation realized
in the last six months of 1977. As explained in Annex 1, the ACF Index moves
1/ FONEI may also grant loans for up to 80% of the costs of executing feasibility
studies or technology development programs when these relate to potential projects
eligible for FONEI's financing.  Such loans are granted for terms of up to 10 years.
2/ Rounded to the closest 0.25 percentage points.



- 14 -
gradually as the level of interest rates changes and it is expected that the index
will increase slightly and then stabilize during the next 2-3 years. Since the Govern-
ment has announced its intention of maintaining borrowing interest rates that permit
adequate resourc  mo-bilization in the financial systemi,ithe ACF index would-be a
suitable yardstick for determining FONEI's onlending interest rates including those
under the proposed project. Based on the latest Bank projections on inflation
rates in Mexico (16% in 1978 and 1979, 14% in 1980, 11% in 1981 and 7% thereafter),
FONEI's interest rates should become increasingly positive in real terms over the
next few years.
3.12      Project appraisal.  When FONEI was established, few, if any, of the
Mexican banks had technical staff in sufficient members and with the qualifications
and experience required to carry out detailed project appraisals to FONEI's standards
(see para. 3.14). Also, since the volume of FONEI's projects channeled through
a single intermediary was low (especially in the early years), most of the
intermediaries were reluctant to set up in-house appraisal units. Since FONEI
itself did not wish to use a large portion of its staff capacity in carrying out
detailed appraisals or to incur the costs of acquiring adequate professional
diversification this would require, it adopted a system of using outside
consultants for appraisal work. FONEI's staff select and guide the work of the
consultants, whose fees are paid by FONEI, review the results of the appraisals
and recommend to the Technical Committee whether, and under what terms and
conditions, a project should be approved for financing. FONEI has used several
different groups of consultants, the most important among them being Instituto
Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT). 1/ IMIT has carried out about
40% of the appraisals of FONEI's projects, the rest being distributed among
private consulting firms and individual consultants. FONEI has in recent months
been attempting to spread the appraisal work among an increasing number of
consultants, in an effort to cut down the average processing times (see para. 3.16)
and to identify areas of particular strength of the individual consultants.
3.13      The quality of the appraisals was somewhat uneven in the earlier years,
reflecting the varying experience of the consultants, but has evolved quite
satisfactorily through the first two Bank loans, as FONEI took an increasingly
active role in guiding the consultants' appraisal activities, and coordinating
the relations among the consultants, the intermediaries, and the final borrowers.
Recent appraisal reports of FONEI's subprojects generally included an adequate
treatment of the organizational, management, marketing, and technical aspects of the
enterprise undertaking the project, as well as a comprehensive analysis of the
incremental economic and financial impact of the project. Minor weaknesses remain
in its analysis of the total financing plan including working capital requirements.
Following suggestions of FONEI and in line with recommendations of a previous Bank
supervision mission, the consultants have been showing greater flexibility than
earlier in tailoring the evaluation procedures to the specific features of
individual projects (such as the past experience of the enterprise in the concerned
production activity, the type of market, established management), rather than
applying identical procedures for all projects.
1/ IMIT is a decentralized public agency that carries out research and development
work to help improve products and production processes, in addition to formulation
and evaluation of industrial investment projects. It is highly regarded in
Mexico for the professional quality of its work.



- 15 -
3.14      Participating intermediaries.  Although any of Mexico's almost 200
financial institutions are eligible to participate as intermediaries of FONEI
financing, many of the smaller banks do not have clients with suitable projects.
Through September 1977, 28 institutions belonging to 14 financial groups had
obtained financing from FONEI. In line with its objective of encouraging
participating intermediaries to take a more active role in project appraisal,
FONEI has focussed its promotion on the 7 financial groups most disposed to
working with it. Of FONEI's operations in the past 5 years, around 90% have been
with these 7 groups (which are not all among the largest seven).  The wide
geographic and subsectoral spread of these groups give  virtually any industrial
enterprise access to FONEI's financing.
Distribution of FONEI's Operations by Intermediary
Intermediary Group           Projects             Credit a/           Average Size
No.         %       Mex$ millions   %       Mex$ millions
Banco Nacional de Mexico  26          34.7         615.5      33.3         23.6
SOMEX/Banco Mexicano       11         17.7        317.5       17.2         28.9
Banco Comercial Mexicano  10          13.3         241.1      13.0         24.1
Banpais                     6          8.0        136.0        7.4         22.7
Banco del Comercio          5          6.7        135.6        7.3         22.1
Banco del Atlantico         4          5.3        116.0        6.3         29.0
Banco de Londres y Mexico  6           8.0        114.7        6.2         19.1
Banco de Industria y
Comercio                  1         1.3          37.5        2.0         37.5
Others (6)                  6          8.0        136.3        7.4         21.7
Total               75       100.0       1,849.9      100.0        24.7
a! Contracts on September 30, 1977, excluding 16 loans approved but not signed.
3.15      In the context of the second Bank loan, FONEI agreed to place greater
emphasis on increasing the involvement of its intermediary banks in the project
appraisal process in order to encourage them to make their lending decisions on
the basis of the results of the such appraisals rather than relying primarily
on collaterals for security. FONEI aimed gradually to transfer to the intermediaries
the responsibility for coordinating the appraisal work of the consultants, with
the intention that at a later stage, some intermediaries would themselves carry out



- 16 -
the project appraisal through in-house project appraisal units or assume full
responsibility for selecting and managing the consultants. iWhile some success has
been achieved, progress has not been as rapid as expected initially. Although the
intermediaries were required to accept the responsibility for coordinating the
consultants' work in projects with subloans of more than Mex$30 million, only in a
minority of cases were the resulting detailed project appraisals used as the
decisive input to the intermediary's own decision on the financing of the project.
One obstacle to the intermediaries becoming more involved in the appraisal work has
been the lack of a clear statement from FONEI and proper publicity of FONEI's willing-
ness to reimburse the intermediaries for the cost of appraisals carried out either
by their in-house staff or consultants contracted directly by them. More
importantly, the relatively long time required for detailed project evaluation
has made the borrowing enterprise and the intermediary reluctant to wait for
completion of the evaluation before making a decision on the composition of the
project and its financing.
3.16      To address these problems, FONEI's Technical Committee has recently
instructed management to review and clarify the arrangements for sharing with
the intermediaries the cost of appraisals. FONEI has also been taking several
measures over the past year to cut down the project processing time, including:
(i) encouraging the potential client companies and financial intermediaries to
approach FONEI at a relatively early stage of project preparation, and to prepare
detailed feasibility studies of their projects along FONEI's suggested guidelines;
(ii) preparing instruction booklets clearly outlining FONEI's requirements
regarding items to be included in the appraisal reports, and the desired depth of
analysis under each of them; and (iii) managing the work of the consultants more
closely and urging them to adopt more flexible evaluation procedures focussing
on the characteristics of the particular projects under consideration. In 1977,
to expedite project processing within FONEI, the Technical Committee delegated to
FONEI's Director the authority to initiate appraisals of the projects on the basis
of a staff review of the preliminary information submitted by the intermediary
and the final borrower. In June 1977 the Technical Committee also delegated to
the Director authority to approve loans of up to Mex$15 million (US$650,000
equivalent).
3.17      As a result of the above measures  FONEI was able to reduce the median
time lag between the receipt of an application for financing and its approval by
its Technical Committee (including initial contact, preliminary screening, detailed
appraisal and consideration by the Technical Committee) from nearly nine months in
1975 to seven months in 1977. Another tangible result of FONEI's recent efforts
was that one of the participating intermediaries, SOMEX-Banco Mexicano 1/ appraised
one of its projects using its own in-house technical staff; the quality of this
appraisal was quite satisfactory, but SOMEX-Banco Mexicano has indicated that it
will not be able to continue this practice for all of its projects due to other
priorities on its staff time. None of the other intermediaries appears as yet
1/ SOMEX-Banco Mexicano is a mixed bank, majority-owned by the Government but with
strong representation by the private sector.



- 17 -
to have an in-house appraisal team adequately qualified to carry out project
appraisals meeting FONEI's requirements. In a few instances, however, upon
FONEI's request and encouragement, reasonably good quality studies of the
investment projects have been accomplished by the borrowing enterprises them-
selves, usually i-- cooperation with some consultants hired on their own, thus
diminishing the need for FONEI or the intermediary to commission a separate
consultant study. FONEI is now concentrating on inducing the intermediaries
to choose the consultants and oversee their work. As outlined in its Development
Strategy Paper (para. 3.23), FONEI also intends to continue its other efforts
towards increasing intermediaries involvement in project appraisal, including
reimbursements to the intermediaries for the cost of their appraisals and, possibly,
higher interest rate margins to intermediaries that are willing to carry out
feasibility studies and project appraisals (para. 5.10).  These measures should
lead to more focussed and rapid appraisals that are relevant to the intermediary's
concerns while still meeting FONEI's requirements.
3.18      Project supervision.  By law intermediaries are required to supervise
term loans to ensure that the loan is used for the purposes intended. Under
its loan contractS.E'ONEI requires the intermediaries to submit periodic progress
reports and findings based on their supervision of projects financed by FONEI.
Intermediaries, however, have been lax in submitting these reports and FONEI
has not been strict in this matter. Rather, it has itself attempted direct
supervision based on plant visits to projects to detect problems, follow-up on
specific loan conditions, and to compare performance with expected results. A
staff member from the interested intermediary is invited to participate and the
intermediary receives a copy of FONEI's report, including any recommendations for
corrective action.
3.19      This procedure, if implemented generally, would be adequate,but
although FONEI could visit a reasonable proportion of its projects in the early
years, this has now become impossible with the current size of FONEI's portfolio.
In recognition of this problem FONEI is establishing a three-stage supervision
system. First, intermediaries will be held strictly responsible for submitting
periodic reports on all projects. Second, from the projects in operation about 50 per
year will be selected for more intense supervision,for which the intermediary
will be requested to produce a more complete report focussed on comparing expected
with actual outcomes, particularly with regard to exports and import substitution.
Third, on the basis of these reports, someone from FONEI's new Supervision
Department (para. 3.05) and from the intermediary would make a joint visit to
follow up on projects not developing as expected. These plans are also reflected
in FONEI's Development Strategy Paper (para. 3.23).
3.20      Promotion.  While FONEI had always engaged in promotional activities to
introduce the industrialists to its financial services, the amount of attention
it could devote to promotion was limited in the earlier years due to other
institution-building demands. However, since assuming the leadership of FONEI at
the end of 1976, Mr. Villasefior has been taking a keen interest in promotional
activities. In particular, he has been paying frequent visits- to important groups
of bankers and industrialists at regional centers throughout Mexico to explain
FONEI's objectives and activities to them. FONEI has recently assigned a
professional full-time to promotion work. Through its promotional activities
FONEI aims to achieve a greater geographical diversification of its clientele and
to increase the relative proportion of loans to exporting and other priority
industries. The increased emphasis on promotional activities is partly responsible
for the recent increase in the demand for FONEI's credits.



- 18 -
FONEI is also examining the feasibility of  stationing   promotion agents in
the regional offices of Banco de Mexico in some industrial centers outside
Mexico City.
3.21      Procurement and disbursement procedures.  FONEI requires the consultants
and/or the intermediaries concerned to verify as part of their project appraisal
that the goods and services procured under the project are competitive in price
and quality, and are appropriate for the purpose intended. In addition, FONEI
ensures through documentation requirements as well as through plant visits by
its own staff and/or the supervision staff of the intermediaries, that the
proceeds of its financing are used only for goods (machinery, equipment, buildings)
and services authorized by FONEI at the time of loan appraisal. Overall,
disbursement procedures are thorough and have enabled smooth disbursement of
the proceeds of the first two Bank loans to FONEI. The recent establishment of
a separate Supervision Department should enable FONEI to pay even greater attention
in the future to disbursement matters.
3.22      Auditing arrangements.  FONEI's annual accounts have been audited for the
last three years by Alonso Ochoa Ravize, a reputable Mexican auditing firm. In
addition, Banco de Mexico's internal auditors also audit FONEI's accounts
periodically. All the audit reports on FONEI's accounts since inception have
been unqualified. The accounting procedures and auditing arrangements are
satisfactory.
3.23      Development Strategy Paper.  To assist its Technical Committee, whose
membership has turned over almost completely following the change of administrations,
FONEI's management has recently prepared a Development Strategy Paper by compiling
and expanding on a number of FONEI's previous statements on its medium term
institutional and operational goals and its strategy for achieving them. The
Development Strategy Paper, which would also help the understanding of the relevant
policies at all levels within FONEI, mainly covers the following points:
(a) FONEI's plans for involving the intermediaries more deeply
in the appraisal process through such means as holding
courses for their staff, reimbursing them, to the extent
necessary, for the cost of appraisals and continuing
efforts to reduce the cycle time for project appraisals
(para. 3.17).
(b) Details of FONEI's new supervision system (para. 3.19).
(c) FONEI's locational and sectoral priorities, including
service export projects (para. 4.02) and plans to
identify suitable projects of these types.
(d)  The expansion in and training of staff to enable FONEI
to implement these improvements and meet the expected
increases in demand for its services.
3.24      During the appraisal mission and loan negotiations FONEI discussed and
reached agreement with the Bank on the contents of its Development Strategy Paper,
which is attached as Annex 3 to this report.



- 19 -
Past Operations and Performance
3.25      Resources.  When FONEI was established in 1971  the Mexican Government
provided an initial equity contribution ofMIex$125 million (then US$10 million
equivalent) to enable FONEI to commence operations and defray administrative
and operating costs. The first Bank loan to FONEI of US$35 million made in mid-
1972 is now fully disbursed. FONEI is responsible for servicing interest and
other charges on the outstanding balance of this loan, but the Government under-
took to repay the principal in order progressively to increase FONEI's capital
base. Since this loan was only available to cover the c.i.f. costs of imported
fixed assets financed by FONEI, the Government also undertook to make available
to FONEI additional   funds of at least Mex$375 million (US$30 million) to cover
FONEI's financing of local costs and domestically manufactured fixed assets.
These funds were made available by the Banco de Mexico out of the legal reserves
of the banking system in exchange for 5-year renewable obligations (Series A)
issued by FONEI on which an annual interest of 9% p.a. is paid. The second Bank
loan of US$50 million was made to FONEI in 1976 under the same arrangements as
the first loan, with Banco de Mexico undertaking to provide additional local
resources (Series B) of at least Mex$500 million (US$40 million) at an interest
rate of 10% p.a. and having a maturity at least equal to that of the Bank loan
(i.e. 16 years). The Banco de Mexico resources are provided as needed for
disbursements and therefore the full amounts agreed would appear on FONEI's
balance sheet only upon full disbursement of the second Bank loan in 1979. As
of year-end 1977 FONEI's total disbursements amounted to Mex$ 1,737 million of which
47% I/ had been financed out of the proceeds of the two Bank loans, 44% were
covered by Banco de Mexico resources, and the remaining 9% was financed via FONEIT's
own equity and loan repayments.
3.26      Characteristics of FONEI's operations.  As of October 31, 1977, FONEI had
approved financing fbr 91 subprojects (net of cancellations) totalling Mex$ 2.5 billion
to help finance approximately Mex$ '7.6 billion in total fixed asset costs. 2/- The
characteristics of these subprojects are shown in Annex 6, T-4. Bank funds'of
approximately US$83.1 million have been committed'to about 85% of FONEI subprojects
involving 90% of FONEI's financing. 3/ FONEI has financed mainly medium-sized and
larger firms as these are more likely to have projects with exporting or obvious im-
port substituting potential and because smaller firms receive financing from a separate
1/ In projects using Bank funds the Bank has generally financed 50-55% of FONEI's
disbursements, but in the interval between the two Bank loans FONEI financed
6 projects entirely from its local resources.
2/ FONEI more typically finances around one-half of fixed asset costs but two very
large projects of whose costs FONEI financed only a small part distort the totals.
3/ In principle, FONEI uses Bank fund4in all of its project but 7 projects had no
direct or off-the-shelf import content and 6 projects were financed after full
commitment of FONEI I and before FONEI II became available.



- 20 -
trust fund, FOGAIN and other trust funds of Nacional Financiera. 1/ The average
firm receiving FONEI financing had around US$9 million equivalent in total assets. The
proportion of FONEI's lending going to larger firms increased slightly between
FONEI-I and FONEI-II, probably because after the peso devaluation the large firms
were no longer able or willing to obtain financing primarily from foreign banks and
had to rely increasingly on domestic borrowing. Nevertheless, medium-sized firms
defined as those having less than Mex$ 35 million in equity received 42% of FONEI's
financing. FONEI has been successful in achieving a progressively wider geographic
distribution of its financing. Around 22% has gone to firms located in Mexico City,
14% in Guadalajara and Monterrey, 36% to other major cities and 28% to other areas.
Under FONEI-II the share of finance going- to Mexico City firms fell while that for
firms in other areas rose substantially. Roughly half of FONEI's credit has gone
to new firms and around 5% of the remaining half has gone to established firms
with new product lines.
3.27      Within the limits set by its Operating Regulations, FONEI attempts to
adapt the terms of its loans to project needs although the participating
intermediaries also play an important role in setting loan terms. The average
maturity of FONEI's loans is around 7 years with 2 years of grace. Under
FONEI-II the borrower couldchoose between fixed and floatinR rates tied to the ACF
(Annex 1). However, all chose fixed rates at 13.25% or 13.5% until May 1977 when
FONEI eliminated the fixed rate option. Since then BONEI's loans have been made
at floating rates, which are now equal to 17.0%(para. 3.11). Roughly 60% of FONEI's
approvals have been for subprojects above the US$750,000 "free limit" and have,there-
fore, been reviewed by the Bank. Another one third of its lending has been below the
"free limit" and the remaining 10% involved no Bank funds.  The average subproject size
has been Mex$ 83.2 million in fixed assets and the average FONEI loan Mex$ 28.1 million.
Excluding one atypical subproject, FONEI has financed about half of the cost of
fixed assets of its subprojects. Intermediaries, which finance much of the sub-
projects working capital requirements, financed 8% of the fixed assets. SubDroject
sponsors contributed a quarter of fixed assets costs and the remainder came from
other sources such as suppliers' credits or direct foreign loans.
3.28.     FONEI subprojects have been widely distributed among industrial subsectors.
Metal and electrical products, which include a substantial number of capital
goods items, account for over one-half of FONEI's credit and chemical products
for another one quarter. FONEI subprojects are expected to have a very
substantial balance of payments impact. Export subprojects (para. 3.07) have
absorbed 32% of FONEI's financing; mixed export/import substitution subprojects 23%:
and pure import substitution subprojects only 45%. The import substitution subprojects
when operating at full capacity are expected to substitute imports of US$440 million
per year. The 43 export and mixed export-import substitution subprojects financed
by FONEI, based on FONEI's appraisals, would result in an increase in exports of
about US$179 million per year. These exports represent 29% of the incremental
output of the firms receiving FONEI financing compared to only about 5% for in-
dustrial firms in general. In the course of supervision FONEI has collected data on
actual versus expected exports by 21 firms whose projects were in operation in 1976.
The data from these firms show that while all but one of the firms were exporting,
actual exports were only US$44.2 million, compared to projected exports of US$81.6 mil-
lion (see Annex 6,T-13). Given the difficulties exporting firms faced in 1976 arising
1/ A separate loan of US$47.0 million to Nacional Financiera to support small and
medium scale industry is expected to be presented to the Board in April 1978.



- 21 -
from the lingering effects of the world recession, the overvaluation of the
peso and shortages of many items in the domestic market, this performance
is quite creditable. For 1977 these firms project substantially higher exports.
3.29      In addition to their substantial balance of payments impact, FONEI's sub-
projects will also generate other favorable economic and social benefits. The 84 sub-
projects on which adequate data are available 1/ are projected to create about 11,000
new jobs at an average investment cost per job of US$26,000, which is comparable to
the corresponding figures for medium to large scale industry in countries at a similar
stage of development. In addition, many of FONEI's subprojects involve in part the
replacement or upgrading of existing industrial plant, thereby contributing to the
preservation of existing jobs. Since the bulk of production inputs (other than capital
goods) are supplied domestically, these subprojects will also have a substantial in-
direct emplcyment creation effect 2/, Averale financial and economic rates of return
on the subprojects are estimated at 20% and 29%, respectively.
Financi4l Results
3.30      Assets and liabilities.  Annex 6, T-5 shows FONEI's audited balance sheets
for 1972 to 1976 and estimated results for 1977. These reflect the rapid growth
of FONEI's operations, with total assets represented almost entirely by term
loans, growing at 68% p.a. to reach Mex$1.7 billion in 1977. As Bank loan repayments
by the Government, which result in an increase in FONEI's capital are still low, its
paid in capital and accumulated profits have grown less rapidly than its assets to
reach Mex$ 158 million by end-1977.  However, FONEI's total equity is shown as being
negative (by Mex$ 137 million) because of an adjustment for foreign exchange losses.
To interpret these statements, the accounting treatment used by FONEI's auditors
needs explanation. Although the Government and not FONEI is repaying the
principal of two Bank loans, the disbursed amounts of these loans are shown in
FONEI's accounts as debt which is being amortized in line with the Government's
repayments.  Consequently, in 1976 and to a lesser extent in 1977, the peso
amounts owed on Bank loans was adjusted upward on FONEI's balance sheet to
reflect the peso devaluation, and a corresponding exchange loss was recorded as
a reduction in FONEI's equity. As the Bank loans are repaid by the Government,
the peso equivalent of the amounts repaid will be subtracted from FONEI's out-
standing debt and a corresponding addition made to FONEI's equity. Part of this
addition goes to reduce the exchange loss and the remainder is shown as an
increase in FONEI's paid in capital. Thus when the two Bank loans are fully
repaid the exchange losses on account of the principal amounts of the loans will
be eliminated, and FONEI's paid-in capital will have increased by an amount equal
to the peso equivalent of the Bank loans at the time of their disbursement.
Thus, although FONEI's total equity is shown as negative for 1976 and 1977, this
is purely the result of the above accounting convention and does not affect
FONEI's financial viability or operational capacity. The ratio of FONEI's total
debt (including the outstanding balance of Bank loans) to its paid-in capital
and accumulated profit rose to 11.7:1 in 1977 which, while quite high, is
not excessive since FONEI does not incur credit risks in its operations (see
para. 3.32) and is not responsible for repaying the Bank loans. FONEI's financial
structure is discussed further in para. 4.07, in the context of its projected
financial results over the next 5 years.
1/ Of the 7 subprojects not included in these eatimates  6 were comparatively small
modernizations and expansions for which the employment effects were not estimated,
while the seventh was a large chemical project of which FONEI financed only 3% of
the total investment.
2/ A recent study in Colombia, where a lower proportion of production inputs are
supplied domestically, indicated that medium sized industrial projects can generate
indirectly at least 50% of the amount of employment generated directly. Colombia:
Special Study-Development of Financiera Assisted Projects, January 23, 1976.
Report No. 1037-CO.



- 22 -
3.31      Profitability.  Annex 6, T-5 also shows FONEI's profit and loss statements for
the past five years. In consultation with its auditors, FONEI has decided that
the exchange losses on the principal portion of the Bank loans discussed above
should not be taken through the profit and loss aecount as the GDvernment will
automatically absorb them. Therefore, they are not reflected in these
statements. However, FONEI does bear the foreign exchange risk associated with
the interest and other charges on the Bank loans and its results for 1976 and
1977 have been influenced accordingly. In 1974 and 1975 FONEI's profits were
modest but improving, amounting to a return of about 1% of average total assets,
and returns of 1.8% and 4.2% of average equity.  This improvement in profitability
was primarily the result of increasing leverage and a proportionate reduction
of administrative expenses as lending volume expanded, from 2.9% of average
total assets in 1974 to 1.4% in 1975. This trend continued in 1976 and 1977 with
administrative expenses dropping to 1.0% of average total assets in the later year. 1/
In 1976 FONEI's profitability was seriously affected by the rise in its borrowing
costs resulting from the peso devaluation, since most of its outstanding loans
were at fixed peso interest rates, and FONEI recorded a loss of Mex$6.4 million for the
year. FONEI raised its interest rates by an additional half point in April 1977
and required all borrowers to accept fully floating interest rates on loans
granted after that date. Since these changes only affect new loans, they were
not sufficient to avoid further losses in 1977. Nevertheless, they are expected
to be sufficient to restore profitability by 1978 (see para 4.08 ), since FONEI's
floating interest rates have already increased by more than 3 percentage points since
April 1977, and the volume of its new operations to which these interest rates
apply is growing rapidly.
3.32      Arrears and Provisions.  As a second tier institution, FONEI does not
bear any credit risk in its financing operations. The intermediaries, which
bear the credit risk, are responsible for paying FONEI on time whether or not they
receive repayment from their industrial clients. In practice, since FONEI is a
trust fund of Banco de Mexico, the Central Bank, paymentsto FONEI are made out of
the accounts that the intermediary banks are required to maintain with Banco de
Mexico as part of the reserve requirement system. Consequently, FONEI does not have
to make provision in its annual statements for possible losses on lending operations.
Nevertheless, FONEI does require its intermediaries to report to it whether any
of their clients are in arrears, and is prepared in exceptional cases to consider
rescheduling the repayments of an intermediary bank if the latter reschedules
its loan to an industrial client. To date this has only been necessary in the case
of one project.
IV. FONEI'S FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESOURCE NEEDS
Operational Priorities
4.01      In carrying out its general mandate to support efficient exporting and
import substituting projects, FONEI intends to give increased emphasis in its
promotional activities to identifying and helping to develop projects in sectors
that have high priority in national plans for industrial development. FONEI expects
to finance an increasing number of capital goods and medium sized chemical projects
in view of the effort being made by the Government to encourage more rapid and
better integrated development of these sectors. Similarly, FONEI is devoting
more attention to promoting projects for the industrial processing of agricultural,
mineral and fish products. FONEI is also developing closer working links with
1/ This level of administrative expenses is reasonable considering that FONEI pays
for the cost of project appraisals undertaken by outside consultants and is
engaging in promotional and project supervision activities.



- 23 -
the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute j/ and with FOMEX in order to identify sectors
and firms with good export prospects and to promote FONEI's services with them.
In planning its promotional efforts and allocating its available human and financial
resources, FONEI continues to give priority to export oriented projects.
4.02      While FONEI's Operating Regulations permit it to finance projects
involving the production of industrial goods or services which would have a
favorable balance of payment impact, to date it has financed only projects
involving the production of industrial goods. However, the Government has
recently assigned FONEI the task of promoting and assisting selected projects
designed to expand exports of services from the northern border zone. In
particular, attention is being focussed on ways to reinforce the border assembly
industry program, to provide better opportunities for smaller Mexican industries
to sell their products to the substantial number of visitors from across the
US border, and to further develop the sale of labor intensive services to
these visitors, based on the plentiful supply of skilled and relatively low
cost labor available.  FONEI is contemplating financing in the future service
exports projects, including mainly: (a) cons-truction of factory buildings
for lease to foreign assembly plants that are not permitted by law to own land
in the border zone; (b) construction of large scale commercial centers to sell
Mexican goods and services to US visitors; and (c) enterprises, such as automobile
repair centers, selling services and replacement parts to visitors. Since these
activities are new to FONEI, and the last category somewhat experimental, FONEI
is approaching them cautiously, and is currently developing guidelines and
criteria for evaluating their foreign exchange earnings potential, economic
impact and financing needs. FONEI expects to finance about 10 projects of
these types during the next 2-3 years (para. 5.01).
Operations Forecast
4.03      FONEI's lending operations have grown rapidly since it began full
operations in 1973, and it has become an increasingly important source of term
finance for industry. The rate of growth of loan approvals has averaged over 20%
p.a. in constant prices since 1973. A shortage of resources during the interval
between the two Bank loans led to a temporary decline in 1975, but there was a
considerable rebound (71% growth) in 1976-, despite the recessionary conditions and
economic uncertainties then prevailing. Demand for FONEI's financinR remained at
a fairly high level during the firstehalf of 1977 and increased more rapidly in
the second half. For the year as a whole FONEI approved 32 projects requiring
financing of Mex$1,108 million. By November 1977 FONEI's pipeline of projects
at various stages of preparation amounted to some 50 projects requiring financing
of about Mex$1,800 million. FONEI expects demand to continue to increase strongly
over the next few years since (i) industrial investment is now recovering after
a period of relative stagnation and is projected to grow by 8-10% p.a. in 1978
to 1980; (ii) availability of credit from alternative sources is likely to remain
restricted for some time notwithstanding the recent improvement in resource
mobilization by the banking sytem; and (iii) the new floating exchange rate
regime should make exporting and efficient import substituting projects more
attractive financially than in the recent past.
4.04      Based on the considerations outlined above, FONEI expects the number of
projects it approves each year 2/ to increase gradually from 36 in 1978 to 48 in
1/ Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior - IMCE.
2/ FONEI does not distinguish between approvals and commitments in its financial
projections since its approval of a project is regarded as a firm commitment
on its part subject only to legal processing.



- 24 -
1980 and then to stabilize at that level in 1981 and 1982 (Annex 6, T-6).
In view of the rates at which FONEI is currently receiving financing applications
(about 4 per month),this forecast appears conservative.  The average subloan size
in current prices is expected to increase also from Mex$45 million in 1978 to
Mex$55 million in 1980, which is consistent with the present project pipeline
and recent trends, and takes into account the increase to Mex$100 million of
FONEI's maximum loan amount. On the basis of the above assumptions, approvals
are forecast to increase from Mex$1,620 million in 1978 to Mex$2,640 million
in 1980. The implied growth rate of 27% p.a. in current prices seems -conservative,
particularly in view of FONEI's assumption that domestic inflation will average
only 7% p.a. (i.e. domestic inflation will not significantly exceed world inflation).
Resource Requirements
4.05      To finance the projected level of loan commitments of Mex$3,720 million
(US$163   million equivalent) in 1978 and 1979, FONEI had available only Mex$ 78 mil-
lion in uncommitted Bank and Banco de Mexico resources at the beginning of 1978.
Loan repayments, profits and minor items will provide a further Mex$ 528 million
during the course of 1978 and 1979 leaving a net resource need for commitment of
Mex$ 3,114 million (Annex 6, T-7). This gap would be filled by the proposed
Bank loan and additional funds to be made available by the Banco de Mexico from
the proceeds of bond issues. 1/
4.06      FONEI has been able to use the proceeds of the previous two Bank loans
only for financing direct imports or off-the-shelf purchases of imported machinery
and equipment, which have represented about half of FONEI's total financing. If
the same procedure were used for the proposed third loan, FONEI would have to
rely on Banco de Mexico to provide about Mex$ 1,300 million of resources for
commitment in 1978 and 1979, a substantial increase over the requirements during
the previous two years. To limit the amount of scarce counterpart resources it
would have to provide (para.2-06), Banco de Mexico has requested that the Bank
finance also the foreign exchange content of the domestically manufactured fixed
asset items financed by FONEI, which is estimated at 25% of the cost of these
items (see para. 5.01). This, together with the financing of direct and off-the-
shelf imports, would result in the Bank financing approximately 60% of FONEI's
commitments in 1978 and 1979. A Bank loan of US$100 million has therefore been
requested of which about US$40 million would be committed in 1978, US$55 million
in 1979, and US$5 million early in 1980. This arrangement would reduce the amount
of additional resources that would have to be provided by Banco de Mexico to
complement the proposed loan to about Mex$1,030 million (US$45 million equivalent).
During loan negotiations confirmation was obtained that counterpart resources
of at least this magnitude will be made available to FONEI on satisfactory terms and
conditions. Annex 6, T-8 and T-9 show FONEI's projected resource position and sources
and applications of funds over the next five years. By early 1980 FONEI would need
additional resources for commitment in the form of new borrowings from international
agencies, Banco de Mexico or other sources.
1/ Resources made available by Banco de Mexico in connection with the first two
Bank loans are designated series A and series B bonds, respectively in Annex 6, T-7
In connection with the proposed loan the new issue would be designated series C.



- 25 -
Projected Financial Results
4.07      FONEI has projected its financial position over the next five years on
the basis of the operations forecast described above. (Annex 6, T-10 and T-11). The
assumptions made in preparing these projections are shown in Annex 6, T-12. 1|
The continuing rapid 4ncrease of FONEI's operations, far exceeding loan repayments,
would lead to a rapid growth in the loan portfolio of over 52% p.a. in 1978-80.
Debt, consisting basically of bonds issued to Banco de Mexico and Bank loans, would
grow almost as fast, 45% p.a. Equity would increase from minus Mex$ 137 million
(see para.3.30) in 1977 to Mex$ 232 million in 1980, as paid-in capital and
accumulated profits rise at 45% p.a. and the exchange loss would be progressively
reduced, assuming that no further devaluation occurs. The ratio of debt to capital
and accumulated profits would remain about 11.7:1 which is reasonable given
automatic increases in capital implicit in the Government's obligation to repay
Bank loans (para.3.30 ), and the fact that all credit risk is borne by the
participating intermediaries.
4.08      FONEI's interest income would continue to rise rapidly as an increasing portion
of its lending is made aL. the new higher floating interest rates, projected to average
around 14% net of the intermediaries' margins.  Although either   higher or lower
interest rates are possible depending on the Government's success-with resource
mobilization and inflation, the projected level is reasonable under the assumption
of gradual reduction in inflation rates (para. 2.08). FONEI's interest expense
would grow more slowly than income and the average spread would increase both
because the expected spread on Bank resources would be higher than in the past
(5.5% versus 3.0%) and because the portion of loans made from FONEI's own capital
and loan repayments would be rising (Annex 6, T-9).  Administrative expenses are pro-
jected to rise slightly to 1.1% of average total assets in 1978,reflecting the planned
expansion in supervisory, appraisal, and promotional staff (para. 3.05), but would
increase only moderately thereafter. The increases after 1978 may be somewhat
underestimated as they imply a rather drastic fall in the ratio of administrative
cost to total assets to 0.7% in 1980 and 0.5% in 1982. This underestimate, however,
is roughly balanced out by an overestimate of the amount FONEI will be required to
pay for Bank funds. Thus, assuming no further devaluation of the peso, FONEI's
1976-77 losses should turn into a small profit in 1978 and increasingly larger ones
in 1979-82. Profits would reach 2.8% of average total assets in 1980 and 4.0% by
1982 and would yield an average return of 27% p.a. on capital and reserves during
1978-82.
4.09      These quite favorable results would be modified in several respects  if
further movements in the exchange rate should occur to offset differences between
Bank assumptions of Mexican inflation and the 7% p.a. assumed for world inflation. 1/
First, FONEI would have to obtain about Mex$250 million 2/more from Banco de Mexico to
maintain the same real level of operations as forecast and to match the higher peso
value of the Bank loan disbursements. Second, its foreign losses as recorded on the
1/ FONEI assumes Mexican inflation at 7% p.a. in 1978-1982, equal to world inflation,
and consequent exchange rate stability of Mex$22.9=US$1.00. If the exchange rate
moves to offset the difference between the Bank's assumptions of Mexican inflation
(16% in 1978-79 , 14% in 1980, 11% in 1981 and 7% in 1982) and world inflation, the
exchange rate would be likely to drop by 5- 8% p.a. over the next few years before
stabilizing in 1981 or 1982.
2/ To ensure that sufficient funds are made available, it was confirmed
at loan negotiations that counterpart funds equivalent to US$45 million will be
provided.



- 26 -
balance sheet would continue to increase for the next few years, and its ratio
of debt to capital plus reserves would rise to 13.5:1. Third, exchange rate
movements would raise FONEI's interest payments on Bank loans and eonsequently
lower its profits. The rate of return on equity would drop to 13%, slightly
above the average rate of inflation in 1978-82. Overall, FONEI would be able to
maintain a sound financial position under these assumptions of inflation and
devaluation with its present interest structure. Should inflation decline less
rapidly and more substantial exchange rate movements occur, FONEI could be
expected to take action, as it did in 1977, to raise the relending rate
sufficiently to maintain adequate profitability.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND THE BANK LOAN
5.01      The resources provided through the proposed loan would help FONEI to meet
the expected level of demand for its financing during a commitment period of about
two years after loan signing. Subprojects financed would comprise export-oriented
subprojects and economically efficient import substitution subprojects with export
prospects, in accordance with the criteria specified in FONEI's Operating Regulations
(para. 3.06). Overall, about 70 subloans involving production of industrial goods
are expected to be financed under the proposed loan, with average investment cost
per subproject of about Mex$ 125 million (about US$5.5 million equivalent) and an
average FONEI subloan of Mex$ 50 million. In addition, a limited number (about 10)
of subprojects involving service exports are expected to be financed (see para. 4.02
and 5.05). The table opposite gives an indication of the likely composition of the
subprojects to be financed, their total costs, the estimated amounts of resources
from the proposed Bank loan and FONEI's other resources (including loan repayments,
income from operations and borrowings from Banco de Mexico), and participation of
the intermediaries and the final borrowers.
The Proposed Bank Loan and its Features
5.02      Loan amount and terms.  The proposed US$100 million loan would cover the
direct and indirect foreign exchange components of FONEI's financing during the
commitment period./lStandard interest and commitment charges would be payable on the
loan by FONEI. NAFINSA would be the Borrower(as an agent of the Government), and would
make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to transfer the proceeds of the Bank loan to
Banco de Mexico (for the account of FONEI) for implementation of the project. In
addition, the Government as the Guarantor would assure availability of US$45 million
equivalent counterpart resources to Banco de Mexico (as the trustee) for channeling them
them to FONEI under conditions satisfactory to the Bank. V The terminal date for
submission of subprojects for Bank financing would be June 30, 1970; the closing
date for disbursement under the Bank loan would be June 30, 1982 (schedule of estimated
disbursements is presented in Annex 4).
5.03     While the conditions of the proposed loan would be similar for  the most
part to those of the FONEI-II Loan, they would differ in four important respects;
1/ The most recent estimates by FONEI of the demand for its financing (submitted
during the loan negotiations) indicate that the loan could be committed in a period
of about-21 months.
2/ This US$45 million would be additional to an amount of US$22 million equivalent
which would be generated internally by FONEI during the commitment period from
repayment of past loans and income from operations.



Total Project Costs and Financing Plan
(Mex$ millions)
FONEI                   Participating  Project  Other local  or    Total Project
Bank   Local Resources  Subtotals   Intermediary  Sponsor  Foreign Banks,etc.          Costs
A. Manufactured Goods Projects
Fixed Assets                2,175        1,185           3,360           545        2,010          1,235             7,150
Imported machinery &
equipment                 1,780          -             1,780
Locally made machinery
& equipment                 276          829           1,105
Installation, civil
works & construction        119          356             475
Working Capital                -            -               -            890          800             90             1,780
Subtotal                 2,175        1,185           3,360         1,435       2,810          1,325              8,930    s
B. Service Export Projects
Fixed Assets 1/               115          345             460            60          180            -                 700
Working Capital                -            -               -             40           60            -                 100
Subtotal 2/                115          345             460           100          240            -                 800
C.  Total All Projects
In Mex$ millions           2,290        1,530           3,820         1,535        3,050          1,325             9,730 3
(In US$ millions equiv.)  (100.0)        (66.8)         (166.8)       ( 67.0)      (133.2)        ( 57.9)           (424.9)
As x of total costs         23.5%        15.7%           39.3%         15.7%        31.3%          13.6%              100%
1/  Service export projects are expected to involve mainly construction of buildings and civil works by lc .l contractors.
2/ While the maximum amount of loan proceeds that can be used for service export subprojects is limited to US$10 million,
it is likely that the amount used will be closer to US$5 million in view of the experimental character of these projects
and the heavy demand expected for financing manufactured goods projects.
3/ The foreign exchange content of the total project costs is estimated to be about US$152.2 million. The proposed Bank
loan of US$100 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange content of the items financed biy FONEI, or abput 66%
of the total foreign exchange costs of the projecta financed.



- 28 -
(i)   In addition to financing the c.i.f. cost of imDorted
fixed assets, FONEI would be'able to obtain reibbursement
under the'Bank loan for the indirect foreign exchange
component of the domestically manufactured items it finances
(para. 5.04).
(ii) Subject to certain conditions, the proceeds of the Bank
loan would be available to help FONEI finance a limited
number of subprojects involving service exports (para. 5.05).
(iii) FONEI's free limit would be increased from US$750,000 under
FONEI-II to US$1.5 million under FONEI-III (para. 5.07).
(iv) A limit of US$5 million would be placed on the amount of the
Bank loan that could be provided to any single subproject
(para. 5.09).
5.04      Expenditures eligible for Bank financing.  In the case of FONEI's
subprojects involving production of industrial goods, the Bank loan would cover
the c.i.f. cost of direct imports.as well as of "off-the-shelf" purchases from
domestic distributors if c.i.f. prices can be established, or alternatively, up
to 70Z of the domestic price of imported goods when c.i.f. prices cannot be
established (tariffs, local taxes, domestic freight and markup represent about
30% of the purchase price on the average). In addition, the Bank loan proceeds
could be used to cover 25% of FONEI's financing provided for domestically
manufactured machinery and equipment, and costs of installation and industrial
construction. I/
5.05      Expenditures for subprojects designed to increase the export of services
(see para. 4.02) would also be eligible for financing under the Bank loan following
procedures similar to those outlined in the above paragraph. However, since such
subprojects are expected to comprise primarily the construction of buildings
and related facilities and civil works by local contractors, Bank financing will
be requested mainly to cover the indirect foreign exchange component of the locally
placed contracts, estimated to average 25% of the contract price (Annex 5). As
explained in para. 5.07, all subprojects involving the export of services will
require prior review and approval by the Bank before being eligible for financing
under the proposed loan. Moreover, the cumulative amount of the proceeds of the
loan available for financing such subprojects would be limited to a maximum of
US$l0million in view of the comparatively small number of subprojects expected and
their experimental character.
5.06      As under the FONEI-IT loan, expenditures made up to 180 days prior to the
date on which the Bank receives a subloan for approval would continue to be eligible
for Bank financing, in view of the longer processing times occurring in the two-tier
mechanism involving both FON2I and the intermediary. Using the above criteria for
determining the Bank's participation in FONEI's financing, the Bank loan would cover
1/ This is a conservative estimate of the foreign exchange content of locally produced
items financed under these categories.  Annex 5 presents a detailed analysis, based
on a NAFINSA-UNIDO study, to show that the indirect foreign exchange component of
machinery and equipment manufactured in Mexico would be about 35.6% of their ex-
factory cost or 29.7% of the delivered price to the purchasing companies. FONEI's
financing covers up to 72% of the delivered price, which includes the distributor's
costs and margins. The Annex also indicates that the foreign exchange component
expenditures for civil works is about 15%, or in the range of 25-30% of FONEI's
financing for such expenditures.



- 29 -
approximately 60% of FONEI's total commitments to subprojects during the loan
commitment period. The criteria would also ensure that the proceeds of the
Bank loan would not cover more than 72% of any individual subproject; 1/ on
the average, they would cover about one quarter of total subproject costs. 2/
5.07      Free limits.  Under the proposed loan, all industrial goods subprojects
(subprojects that involve the export and/or import substitution of industrial goods)
requiring more than US$1.5 million of Bank financing in total from the proposed and
the previous two Bank loans would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank. In light of the expected size distribution of FONEI's subloans, application
of this free limit would result in the Bank reviewing about one third of FONEI's 
subprojects that would account for one half of the loan proceeds. The proposed
doubling of the US$750,000 free limit that was applicable under the FONEI-II loan is
justified in view of the greater experience of FONEI and its consultants in project
appraisal, and the expected rise in the average size of subprojects as a result of
inflation and the increase in FONEI's maximum subloan size. All subprojects involv-
ing exports of services would be subject to prior review and approval of the Bank,
in view of the Bank's and FONEI's lack of prior experience with this type of sub-
projects. However, on the basis of a review of the first few such projects submitted,
the Bank would be prepared to consider a partial waiver of this requirement and agree
with the Borrower and the Trustee on an appropriate free-limit for such subprojects.
When submitting a service export subproject for consideration by the Bank, FONEI
would be required to pay special attention in its appraisal report to analyzing the
subproject's foreign exchange earnings potential, economic impact and lack of alter-
native sources of financing on adequate terms. In addition, evidence would be
required demonstrating that the export demand for the services to be provided is
reasonably firm and reliable. FONEI has confirmed its agreement with these arrange-
ments through an official letter following the loan negotiations.
5.08      Loan repayment and interest payment responsibilities.  As in the case of
the FONEI-I and FONEI-II Loans, the proposed loan would be repaid by the Mexican
Government in order to further increase FONEI's equity as the repayments are made,
but interest and other charges on the loan would continue to be borne by FONEI.
The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the principal repayment
obligations of the Bank loan, whereas the foreign exchange risk on the interest
payments and commitment charges would be assumed by FONEI. Since the Government would
repay the principal, the loan would be made for a period of 17 years, including four
years of grace, which are the maximum Bank terms for Mexico under the current guide-
lines.
5.09      Onlending terms and interest rates.  The terms and conditions of the sub-
loans made using the proceeds of the Bank loan would be consistent with FONEI's
Operating Regulations (para. 3.07), with the additional restriction, however, that
total financing provided to a single subproject out of the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan shall not normally exceed US$5.0 million. This latter restriction is
proposed to ensure that Bank support would not be overly concentrated in a few
large projects 7(those exceeding by large amounts the normal upper limit of
Mex$100 million of FONEI's financing per project), Nevertheless, the Bank would be
1/ The maximum use of Bank funds would occur when FONEI had financed its maximum
percentage of project costs (72%) and these were all direct imports.
2/ Bank funds would finance 60% of FONEI's subloans which in turn cover about
40% of the total costs of the projects on average.



- 30 -
prepared to make exceptions to this limit for projects of exceptional economic merit
without access to alternative sources of finance on adequate terms.
5.10      Consistent with its Operating Regulations, FONEI would charge floating
interest rates to the intermediaries as well as the final borrowers, with adjustments
once every six months. The lending rate to the final beneficiaries on loans dis-
counted with FONEI would be two percentage points above the ACF index (see para. 2.08)
rounded to the nearest 0.25 percentage points. The interest rate may be modified,
however, in agreement with the Bank, if this is seen as necessary in the light of
future changes in the financial environmental and the costs of the intermediaries.
During the loan negotiations, FONEI explained that, in general, it would continue
to allow a margin of two percentage points for the intermediaries, but may modify its
Operating Regulations in the future to allow higher margins for those intermediaries
that carry out feasibility studies and project appraisals; in cases of exceptionally
large subprojects it may finance (para. 5.09), FONEI may also consider margins of
somewhat less than two percentage points.
5.11      Procurement and disbursement.  Procurement and disbursement procedures for
directly imported goods and off-the-shelf purchases of imported goods financed under
the proposed loan would be similar to those under the first two FONEI laons (see
also para. 3.21) and would follow the procedures customary for Bank DFC projects,
with FONEI having the responsibility for ensuring the competitiveness of the items
procured in price and quality and their suitability for the purpose intended.
FONEI confirmed through an official letter that it would pay even more attention to
analyzing procurement decisions in the case of subloans exceeding its normal maximum
limits, and ensure a reasonable opportunity for both domestic and foreign suppliers
to bid.
Project Justification and Risks
5.12      The propesed project would reinforce the Government's efforts to stimulate
the recovery of private industrial investment during a period of considerable
credit scarcity, and would have a substantial favorable impact on Mexico's
balance of payments, by increasing the resources available to FONEI to finance
industrial projects that lead to exports or substitute imports efficiently. It
would help FONEI partially to finance about 80 subgproiects involving aggregate _
investment costs of about Mex$ 9.7 billion.  Based on the characteristics of sub-
projects financed in the past by FONEI and a preliminary review of the financing
applications currently under evaluation, a tentative forecast can be made of the
likely economic impact of the subprojects expected to be financed under the proposed
loan. These subprojects, when fully operational,are projected to lead to net foreign
exchange earnings or savings of about Mex$ 3 billion annually (about US$130 million
equivalent). They would also have a substantial employment impact, generating
13,000 to 16,000 new long term jobs in total, at an average investment cost per
job in the range US$26,000 to US$33,000. In addition, thev should also helD to
generate a similar number of jobs indirectly. About 80% of FONEI's financing is
expected to go to projects outside Mexico City, thus contributing to industrial
decentralization and regional development.
5.13      The project would also help FONEI achieve a number of important
institutional improvements, including: increased involvement of Mexican banks in
carrying out detailed appraisals of their projects and using them as a key input
to their lending decisions; strengthening project supervision procedures; increasing
the scope of FONEI's-operations and promotional activities; and strengthening the
capacity and capability of FONEI's technical departments.



- 31 -
5.14      As the third Bank operation with FONEI, which is a reasonably efficient
and mature financial institution, with capable management and sound operating
policies and procedures, the project presents no special risk. Should the Government
be less successful than expected in controlling inflation, the recovery in industrial
investment, which began in the second half of 1977, might not maintain its momentum.
On the other hand, resource mobilization by the banks would be also adversely affec-
ted, tending to offset any fall in demand for FONEI funds resulting trom a lower
rate of investment. Should the Government depart from its present policy of main-
taining a realistic exchange rate, industrialists might be less willing to mount
export and import substitution projects, but this appears unlikely in view of the
action taken and policy statements made by the present administration during its
first year in office.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the following agreements were obtained, and
understandings reached:
(i)  from the Government and Banco de Mexico on
(a) the provision by Banco de Mexico of the required counterpart
resources to FONEI, at satisfactory terms and conditions to
complement the Bank loan and FONEI's internal resources
(para. 5.02); and
(b) the Government's repayment of the principal of the loan
(para. 5.08), and assurance of the availability of the
required counterpart resources to Banco de Mexico (para. 5.02).
(ii)  from the Government, Nacional Financiera, and Banco de Nexico on
(a) expenditures eligible for Bank financing (paras. 5.04 and
5.06); and
(b) FONEI's onlending interest rates (para. 5.10) and its respon-
sibilities for payment of interest and other charges on the
Bank loan (para. 5.08).
(iii) from Banco de Mexico as trustee for FONEI on
(a) the cumulative limit of US$10 million on the total Bank
financing for service export subprojects (para. 5.05);
(b) the different free limit arrangements for subprojects
involving production of industrial goods and for service
export subprojects (para. 5.07);
(c) the limit of US$5 million for the maximum amount of the
proceeds of the loan that could be onlent for a single
subproject (para. 5.09); and
(d) procurement and disbursement procedures (para. 5.11).
6.02      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a loan of
US$100 million with a maturity of 17 years including 4 years of grace on conditions
as outlined in Chapter V.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
Since 1974 financial institutions in Mexico have been increasingly
adopting variable interest rate schemes for term lending operations. The
change from fixed rate lending, which had been the practice in the past, came
after inflation had accelerated after 1973 to levels--20% and more p.a.--unknown
in Mexico for twenty years and after Banco de Mexico had raised the maximum
interest rate on deposits by almost 4 percentage points above the 1972 level.
Variable rates were used for the first time on a large long-term loan from a
group of banks and financieras to several large public enterprises where it
was agreed that the rate would be set several points above the average cost
of funds to financieras 1/ and would vary as this base rate varied. Since
that time, the use of variable interest rates has become even more generalized
and by 1977 pract-Lcally no term loans were being made except at variable
interest rates.
The average cost of funds to financieras (ACF) is a rate calculated
monthly by Banco de Mexico in order to determine how much to pay financieras
for required reserves kept with Banco de Mexico. Thus, it is a ready-made
indicator of financial costs. It is a weighted average (gross of tax) of
interest rates paid on financial bonds and certificates, promissory notes,
and the newly-created certificates of deposit, instruments whose maturity
varied from sight to one year. The ACF excludes checking accounts, savings
deposits and mortgage bonds and certificates issued by commercial banks and
mortgage banks even though in practice the latter pay rates approximately
equal to rates paid by financieras.
Banco de Mexico generally looked with favor upon the development of
variable-rate lending recognizing it as a way of preventing an even more
rapid contraction in term lending activity of the financial system in response
to the uncertainties created by inflation during that period. Banks liked
the principle since it could prevent a profit squeeze on deposits accepted at
short term and re-lent at longer term. Borrowers accepted the idea basically
because the alternative would have been a considerably higher fixed rate,
because it was not really all that different to a series of rolled over short
term loans and because many were familiar with variable rate Eurodollar loans.
Movements in the ACF are determined chiefly by the rates paid on various
classes of deposit  instruments and changes in the volume of savings attracted
by different instruments. Maximum rates that banks can pay on each instrument
are set by Banco de Mexico to avoid excessive fluctuations in rates and un-
desireable large movements in deposits between financial institutions or between
1/ Financieras are the term lending arms of banking conglomerates, now formally
fused with commercial and mortgage banks into multipurpose banking institutions--
multibanks. Resources mobilized by the financing divisions continue to be the
main source of term loans from multibanks and to be subject to their own
regulating regime.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
instruments with different term characteristics. Nevertheless, through 1972
rates were set high enough to attract substantial real increases in resources
and the banking system was growing faster than GDP. During that time, the
ACF at around 10% was 5-7 points greater than the inflation (Table 1). During
1973-76, the inflationary period leading up to the abandonment of the fixed
parity of the peso in relation to the US dollar in September 1976, the ACF
rose to near 12% as deposit rates were raised several times but never by enough
to exceed inflation (except for brief periods). Resource mobilization, consequently,
suffered and the financial system shrank when measured in constant prices.
The new administration has announced a policy of setting interest rates
which, in relation to inflationary expectations, would promote the renewed growth
of resource mobilization. The first step in this policy was taken in May 1977
when interest rates on the longest term deposits (2 years) were increased
from 15.17% to 18.52% (12.75% to 16% after tax); as a result the ACF
reached about 14.9% by March 1978.
A secondary determinant of changes in the ACF is changes in the relative.
amounts held in the various instruments. On at least two occasions changes in
those relative amounts have importantly affected the ACF. In late 1976, deposit
rates were raised but the ACF did not rise because the public, due to general
uncertainty, shifted a larger portion of its deposits into financial bonds
paying lower rates but withdrawable at sight. On the other hand, the effect
on the ACF of the May increase mainly in longer term deposit rates was
reinforced by a relative shift from shorter to longer term deposit instruments.
The increase in deposit rates in May 1977 accompanied by a decline in inflation
from 23.0% p.a. in the first semester to 16.4% in the second, has led to an
encouraging increase in the volume of peso denominated financial savings.
There are no reliable indicators of interest rates paid by borrowers so
it is impossible to determine exactly what effect the new variable-rate schemes
has had on lending interest rates. Besides, adoption of the new scheme was
not instantaneous and several variations were tried out along the way. It is
likely that the spread between the ACF and the rate now paid by the borrower is
higher today than in 1974 since the scarcity of peso credit intensified following
devaluation. However, the rates being paid in May 1977, around 20% p.a. or
roughly 8 points above the ACF of 11.93%, at that time, have increased little in
the second semester as the ACF climbed to 14.30% in December, implying a
decrease in the spread.
If the annual rate of inflation decreases gradually as expected from about
16% in 1978 to 7% by 1982, and the recent rapid growth of deposits is sustained,
the level of ACF over the next few years can be expected to be relatively stable,
with only slow and gradual changes. If, however, the progress in controlling
inflation were significantly less successful, the monetary authorities could
be expected to raise deposit rates producing a further rise in the ACF.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
It is likely, therefore, that FONEI's lending rate set 2 points above the ACF
would be positive in real terms over the life of a subloan, starting
in 1978. There is, of course, no guarantee that deposit rates and the ACF would
not again become negative in real terms as they were in 1973-76, but having had
such a clear, recent example of the damage this does to the financial system,
the authorities are not likely to contravene their stated policies by permitting
this to occur again.
Deposit Rates, the ACF and Inflation
Inflation during
Highest Deposit                           quarter,annualized
Year  Quarter               Rate                  ACF                   rate
1971   1                     11.48               10.53                  4.9
2                    11.11                10.41                  3.9
3                    11.11                10.30                  4.3
4                    11.11                10.19                  4.2
1972   1                     10.60               10.03                  7.7
2                    10.60                 9.97                  4.1
3                    10.60                 9.91                  5.8
4                    10.60                 9.90                  4.6
1973   1                     10.60                9.87                 13.6
2                    10.88                 9.87                14.6
3                    12.71                10.41                29.9
4                    12.71                10.65                 28.5
1974   1                     12.78               10.88                 29.9
2                    13.74                11.35                13.1
3                    14.21                11.57                 15.7
4                    14.21                11.88                 24.5
1975   1                     14.21               11.86                 10.4
2                    14.21                11.89                 16.7
3                    14.21                11.91                  9.9
4                    14.21                11.97                  8.3
1976   1                     13.91               11.78                 21.0
2                    13.91                11.76                  7.4
3                    14.63                11.74                22.8
4                    15.17                11.99                 64.0
1977   1                     15.17               11.99                 32.7
2                    16.28                12.59                 15.4
3                    18.52                13.83                 21.7
4                    18.52                14.30                 13.9
1978   1                     18.52                14.88                n.a.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)
(Translation)
The Federal Government, represented by the Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Publico, created in Banco de Mexico, S.A., a trust fund, Fondo de Equipa-
miento Industrial. The resource of this fund will be devoted to promote the
establishment and expansion or modernization of industrial or service firms whose
scale and efficiency permits them to supply foreign markets or to substitute
imports, thereby helping to strengthen the balance of payments and to raise the
productivity of national industry.
In March 1978, the Technical Committee of FONEI approved new General Rules
of Operations which appear below. These replace the previous ones contained in
Circular Number 1824/77 of September 14, 1977.
1.      The objectives of the Industrial Equipment Fund (a trust fund of Banco de
Mexico) shall be to (a) grant credits through financial intermediaries to promote
the production of industrial goods and services which generate foreign exchange
by supplying the export markets or save foreign exchange by the efficient substi-
tution of imports with reasonable export prospects, and (b) encourage the financial
intermediaries to appraise the projects subultted for FONEI's financing.
2.      FONEI may carry out the following operations:
(a) Discount loans granted by credit institutions for the purchase and
installation of fixed assets (including machinery, industrial equip-
ment and facilities), the construction of buildings to install such
fixed assets, and preoperative costs;
(b) Finance preinvestment or feasibility studies and studies on technology
development programs (including adaptation, production and integration
of technologies). The latter would be directed preferentially towards
the design and development of capital goods, defined as machinery,
equipment and their components used in producing goods and services.
(c) Other financial transactions related to those under (a) and (b) above.
3.      The financing operations mentioned in 2(a) and 2(b) above shall relate to
the following:
(a) The equipment of new industrial plant or the expansion or moderniza-
tion of existing industrial plant whose products have reasonable
prospects of being exported, or substitute imports efficiently;
(b) The equipment of projects that render services which lead to foreign
exchange earnings or savings;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(c) The development of the design and technology for producing capital
goods (including the development of prototypes) that could lead to
foreign exchange earnings or savings.
4.      For FONEI 'i finance industrial projects with the aim of import substitu-
ting, the following requirements must be met:
(a) The products manufactured by the borrowing enterprise shall be
competitive in price and quality with similar products manufactured
abroad.
(b) The products manufactured as a result of the project shall be of
priority character.
5.      FONEI may grant loans for up to 80% of the costs of executing feasibility
studies or technology development programs when these refer to projects eligible
for FRONEI's assistance. Such loans shall be granted on terms of up to 10 years
depending on the type and size of such study or program. Should they result in
the execution of the corresponding project, the loan for the study or program may
be consolidated with the loan granted by FONEI for the execution of the project.
6.      The credit institution acting as the financial intermediary for FONEI's
financing shall be subject to the following basic requirements:
(a) The financial intermediary shall ensure that the borrowing enterprise
will have sufficient resources for its working capital needs;
(b) In cases of loans exceeding Mex$30 million, the financial inter-
mediary shall be in charge of the economic, financial and technical
aspects of the project evaluation;
(c) The financial intermediary shall undertake to service the FONEI loan
punctually and in full, regardless of whether or not it has received
the payments from its borrower. It shall pay immediately to FONEI
any sums received from the borrower as advance repayment of principal.
(d) The financial intermediary shall periodically supervise the situation
and progress of the projects financed and submit to FONEI,at least
annually, a supervision report on each of the projects.
7.      In the selection of projects to be financed by FONEI, the following general
interest aspects, among others, shall be considered:
(a) Foreign exchange generation and/or savings;
(b) The economic and financial rates of return;
(c) Value added;
(d) Utilization of labor;
(e) Industrial decentralization and regional development.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.      FONEI's operations shall be denominated in domestic currency.
9.      The minimum of each of the financings authorized by FONEI shall be
Mex$4.5 million and the maximum Mex$100.0 million. The lower limit shall not
apply to the financing of feasibility studies or technology development programs.
With the approval of the Trustee, the Technical Committee may approve credits in
excess of Mex$100 million for high priority projects such as those involving
capital goods production.
10.     Within the limits of the foregoing Rule, FONEI will finance the purchase
of fixed assets in the following proportions:
(a) For projects whose object is the creation of a new firm, up to 65%
of the fixed assets. The financial intermediary will participate
with at least 15.4% of FONEI's credit and the final borrower will
financeat least 25% of the said assets.
(b)  With reference to projects that promote the expansion or moderniza-
tion of existing plants, FONEI can finance up to 72% of the fixed
assets. The financial intermediary will participate with at least
11.1% of FONEI's credit and the final borrower will finance at least
20% of said assets. The contribution of the final borrower will be
made through increases in equity or through internal generation of
funds during the construction period of the project. In financing
projects supported by FONEI,other financial institutions besides
the financial intermediary, equipment suppliers and,in general,any
other source of funds, may also participate.
11.     The terms and other conditions of FONEI's financing will depend on
the characteristcs of the proposed investment. Loans may be granted for a maximum
of a 13-year period which may include up to 3 years of grace.
12.     The rate of interest that financial intermediaries charge final borrowers
in credits granted with resources of FONEI should not be more than 2 percentage
points above the rate referred to in the following clause.
13.     FONEI will charge financial intermediaries a rate of interest equal to the
average cost of domestic currency resources mobilized by all financieras on the
basis of the estimates prepared monthly by Banco de Mexico rounded to the nearest
one quarter percentage point. The initial rate will be that corresponding to the
month immediately preceding the month of the subloan signing; this rate will be
adjusted every 6 months as necessary in conformance with the preceding paragraph.
14.     FONEI will charge to the financial institution which it finances a commit-
ment fee on undisbursed balances of 1% per year. Financial institutions may pass
this charge on to the final borrower.
15.     The resources of FONEI may not be used for projects that have adequate
and sufficient alternative sources of financing.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
16.     The agreements signed by FONEI with the financial intermediaries, and
those signed by the latter with the final borrowers shall specify that FONEI is
entitled at all times to obtain any information it may consider necessary concerning
execution of the projects, to inspect and supervise the execution and operation
thereof, and to require the final borrower to submit financial staterents certified
by external auditors acceptable to the Trustee.
17.     FONEI may enter into agreements with other trust funds or agencies to
facilitate the provision of integrated financial and technical assistance to the
client enterprises.
18.     Approval of the Technical Committee is required for each and every one of
the financing operations carried out by FONEI pursuant to these Regulations.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI's Declaration of Operational and
Institutional StrateRv, 1978-80 (Translation)
(Development Strategy Paper)
The following is a declaration of FONEI's operational and institutional
strategy for achieving FONEI's goals over the 1978-80 period in conformity with
its institutional policies.
Types of Projects to be Financed. FONEI will continue to give highest
priority to financing efficient exporting and import substituting industrial
projects. Within sectors with good export prospects, FONEI will give special
attention to projects that process agricultural, mineral, or seafood products.
Among import substitution projects, projects to produce capital goods and secondary
petrochemicals will receive special emphasis. Projects in those areas would be
considered of special priority and could, with authorization by the Ministry of
Finance ("Hacienda"), receive a loan in excess of Mex$100 million.
In response to the Government's having assigned to FONEI the task of
financing development projects along the northern frontier, FONEI will finance
service projects in this area which can be shown clearly to earn or save foreign ex-
change. FONEI will consider financing three main types of projects; (a) construction
of factory buildings for rent or lease to exporting firms, (b) centers designed to
sell a service(mainly to foreign visitors)such as repairs of automobiles or consumer
durables, (c) commercial centers designed to sell goods(to nationals)which would
otherwise be procured abroad,and/or locally produced goods to foreign visitors.
FONEI will also give special attention to projects located outside the
major metropolitan areas and particularly outside the Mexico City area. When
and as the Government defines certain areas as of high priority, FONEI will make a
special effort to assist projects in those areas.
Promotion. The purpose of FONEI's promotion is to familiarize an increasing
number of industrialists and financial institutions with FONEI's activities in order
to generate sufficient demand to permit FONEI to select the projects which best fit
its objectives. FONEI will carry out its promotion through visits by its staff to
groups of businessmen and bankers throughout the country, through pamphlets and
audiovisual material and possibly through the establishment of representatives
attached to Banco de Mexico in one or more industrial centers outside of Mexico City.
Appraisal through Intermediaries. One of FONEI's basic objectives is to
encourage financial intermediaries to make increased use of project appraisal in
coming to lending decisions in order that investment projects of higher economic or
social benefit receive adequate financing. FONEI considers that the banks would be
disposed towards adopting such techniques if they are seen to be advantageous to the
banks themselves. Therefore, in order to encourage banks to gain experience in project
appraisal, FONEI would be prepared to partially reimburse the costs financial inter-
mediaries incur in appraising projects, whether carried out by their own staff or



ANNEX 3
Page 2
through consultants. FONEI may also consider allowing a somewhat higher margin
to intermediaries which assume the full responsibility for the appraisal of projects.
Both the proportion of cost that is reimbursed and the additional spread that may be
offered may be varied from time to time in order to achieve an increasingly signi-
ficant involvemenF of financial intermediaries in the appraisal process. FONEI
considers that in the next two to three years, approximately a third of FONEI's
projects would be appraised by the financial intermediaries.
FONEI is aware that one of the difficulties faced by financial intermedia-
ries in appraisal of projects is that in most cases the project sponsors have not
prepared the project in sufficient detail or do not present the project proposals
in a form that facilitates appraisal. FONEI will therefore encourage industrialists
who seek its financing to present the project to the intermediary in as well prepared
a form as possible, and to this end will prepare appropriate guides and instruction
materials.
Finally, in recognition of the shortage of persons with the training and
experience to prepare and appraise industrial projects, both within intermediaries
and within consulting firms, FONEI will organize courses for industrialists, consul-
tants and staff of financial intermediaries on different aspects of project formu-
lation and appraisal.
Supervision. FONEI has three objectives in supervising projects after a
loan is granted: (a) to ensure that the funds are used for the purposes intended
and that all contractual conditions are met; (b) to aid the firm in overcoming
any problems that may have developed in the course of carrying out the project; and
(c) to know the outcome of projects financed with regard to exports and import
substitution, price levels, financial and economic returns, employment generation,
etc., in order that FONEI in the future may increase the developmental impact of
its operations.
Recognizing the impossibility of supervising in detail all the projects
in its growing portfolio, and in order to increase the involvement of the financial
intermediaries in supervision activities, FONEI recently modified its Operating
Regulations to make the intermediaries formally responsible for supervision of the
projects and for submitting progress reports periodically to FONEI. On the basis
of this information and other information that it may have, FONEI will select a
limited number of firms for direct supervision. These firms would receive a ques-
tionnaire designed to detect significant deviations of actual from expected results.
These questionnaires would permit FONEI to select a still smaller number of firms
meriting a more complete supervision including plant visits in which the intermediary
would be invited to participate.
Staffing. It is estimated that FONEI's current staff would be adequate to
process the expected level of financing applications in the coming year. FONEI may
however consider the appointment of a "promoter" and, possibly, one regional repre-
sentative to be stationed outside Mexico City. The increase in project appraisal
work over the next year would be absorbed mainly through contracting external consul-
tants.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
As a financial institution with well qualified technical staff, FONEI
should expect some amount of turnover in its staff. FONEI would therefore plan
for and recruit sufficient staff to take account of the expected levels of turn
over in the future. The training courses to be organized by FONEI as described
above would also be part of FONEI's personnel planning strategy.



ANNEX 4
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter        Disbursements in Quarter        Cumulative Disbursements
1978-79
September 30, 1978                       0.25                              0.25
December 31, 1978                        0.75                              1.00
March 31, 1979                            2.40                             3.40
June 30, 1979                            4.20                              7.60
1979-80
September 30, 1979                       7.20                             14.80
December 31, 1979                        9.00                             23.80
March 31, 1980                          10.00                             33.80
June 30, 1980                           11.40                             45.20
1980-81
September 30, 1980                      10.80                             56.00
December 31, 1980                        10.00                            66.00
March 31, 1981                           9.50                             75.50
June 30, 1981                            8.50                             84.00
1981-82
September 30, 1981                       6.50                            90.50
December 31, 1981                         5.00                            95.50
March 31, 1982                           3.50                             99.00
June 30, 1982                            1.00                            100.00



ANNEX 5
page 1
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Estimation of the Foreign Exchange Component of
Domestic Fixed Assets Financed by FONEI
This annex outlines the methodology used to estimate the foreign exchange
component of domestic fixed assets financed by FONEI. It deals first with
projects involving the establishment or expansion of capacity to produce
manufactured goods, which are expected to account for about 91% of FONEI's
financing over the next 2-3 years. It then examines briefly the foreign exchange
component of service export projects which are expected to account for about 9%
of FONEI's financing.
Manufactured Goods Projects
By its Operating Regulations, FONEI is authorized to finance the cost to
the investing company of procuring, and installing fixed assets including the
cost of any associated civil works and construction. An analysis of the projects
financed by FONEI over the past two years indicates that, on average, about 70%
of FONEI financing of domestically supplied fixed assets has been for the
procurement of machinery and equipment made in Mexico and about 30% for installation,
civil works and construction.
In order to estimate the foreign exchange component of machinery and
equipment manufactured in Mexico the recent NAFINSA-UNIDO study of Mexican capital
goods production has been used. Based on a survey of 72 producers, this study
concludes that on the average, 24% of the production cost of locally manufactured
capital goods is represented by directly imported production inputs. A further 42%
of production cost is represented by locally produced parts, components and raw
materials. These locally produced items themselves have an import content, which
the study estimates at 13% of their cost, and use locally produced inputs accounting
for a further 53% of their cost.1/ Thus, to determine the overall direct and indirect
foreign exchange component of capital goods production in Mexico it is necessary
to take into account the foreign exchange component of the locally produced inputs
by summing the following series:
F.E. component of production cost = .24+.42 (.13+.53 (.13+.53 (.13+.....
= .24+.42 (.13+.13 (.53+.532+.533 ...))
= .24+.116
= .356
Thus, the direct and indirect foreign exchange component of domestically manu-
factured machinery and equipment is estimated to be 35.6% of the production costs.
Allowing for profit margins and distribution costs (of about 20%), this percentage
would be equivalent to about 29.7% of the delivered price to the companies
purchasing the machinery and equipment. It is on this delivered price that FONEI
bases its financing.
1/ These local inputs in turn have an estimated foreign exchange content of 13%.



ANNEX 5
page 2
The foreign exchange component of civil works including construction
and installation, has been estimated at 15%, based on statistics provided by
Banco de Mexico for all such activities in Mexico and the results of a recent
study of hotel construction costs undertaken by civil engineering consultants
in connection with the Tourism Development Loan.
To determine the average foreign exchange component of domestically
supplied fixed assets financed by FONEI we have to take into account that 70%
of such fixed assets are machinery and equipment with a foreign exchange cLmponent
of 29.7%, and that the other 30% of the fixed assets are installation, civil
works and construction having a foreign exchange component of 15%. On this
basis, the average foreign exchange component of all domestically supplied fixed
assets financed by FONEI would work out at about 25%.
Service Export Projects
FONEI has not financed any service export projects in the past and is
still in the process of defining selection criteria for such projects. Therefore,
it is not possible to estimate accurately their foreign exchange content at this
time. However, an approximation should suffice since service export projects are
only expected to account for about 9% of FONEI's total financing.
The service export projects are likely to comprise mainly the construction
of industrial buildings and construction and equipping of commercial centers
and automotive repair shops. Consequently, a higher proportion of their
domestically supplied fixed assets will be represented by civil works and
construction than is the case for manufactured goods projects.  Thus, one
would expect their foreign exchange component to be lower. However, these
projects will be located in the northern border Zone where typically a higher
proportion of imported inputs are used in civil works and construction then is
the case for projects in the interior of the country. For example, hotel projects
in the border area were estimated by the civil engineering consultants to have a
foreign exchange component of 40%, compared with 20% for hotels built in the rest
of the country. Consequently, it seems reasonable to use the same figure
(i.e. 25%) for the foreign exchange component of domestic fixed assets used in
service export projects as for the manufactured goods projects.






ANNEX 6
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
SUPPORTING TABLES






ANNEX 6
T 1
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Imports as Ratios to Domestic Demand, 1967-1974
S ** e * t                         137        1i"        1 m       1970       ion        19n        137       1 74
1       Peeroeq _  *ttectias *m  1S r fnin
end ccl products                       .027      .022       .023       .019       .031       .036      .085       .089
lb      Usic patetmchsc.1s                     .069       .055       .063      .067       .085       .101       .085       .079
2        set prfutcts                          .014       .009      .009       .015:      .014       .010       .020       .035
3       Fleur 4e tS.l  and baking                           -          -       .001       .002       .002       .004       .002
4       Other feed preducts*                   .021       .018       .01      .025       .024       .031       .040       .054
S       3vwerages                              .007       .006       .005      .005       .011       .014       .014       .013
6       Tobacco                                .005       .007       .001      .003         -        .001         -          -
7       Textiles                               .020       .016       .018      .016       .015       .015       .022       .027
a       Clothing. icluding footwear            .009       .012       .015      .015       .018       .019       .021      .019
9       Wood product                           .035       .037       .043      .044       .041       .046       .055       .051
10       Paper produce.                         .120       .115       .133      .139       .112       .109       .133       .179
11       Printing and Publishing                .047       .051       .046      .044       .061       .112       .088       .071
12       Leather and products                   .011       .011       .013      .013       .012       .019       .017       .014
13       Rubber and products                    .060       .048       .047      .043       .036       .038       .044       .050
14       2asic chuicals                         .460       .438       .401      .363       .362       .390       .398       .486
15       Synthetics and plastics                .181       .154       .148      .128       .098       .095       .090      .207
16       Fertilizers and insecticides           .097       .120       .076      .057       .076       .081       .070       .099
17       Ptrfumes and soaps                     .009       .009       .008      .006       .008       .010       .011       .016
18       Pharnacauticals                        .126       .170       .136      .122       .141       .129       .119       .110
19       Other chemicals                        .146       .144       .135      .146       .120       .139       .156       .181
20       I6outallic mineral products            .036       .037       .036      .031       .026       .025       .029       .027
21       Basic metals                            .078      .065       .063       .072      .056       .050       .077       .120
rotal products                         a.&.       U.&.      n.a.       .053       .047       .058       .057       .053
Non-electric machinery                 n.a.      n.&.       n.S.       .514       .467       .474      .509       .550
22-2S    U *lectric machinery                   nc.        n..       n.a.       .147       .144       .207       .178      .171
Transport equipment                    Ua.       n. c.  n.&.           .218       .176       .196      .216       .215
27       Miscellaneous                          .153       .169       .170      .173       .162       .171       .186       .209
Total                                  .105      .105       .100       .10W       .099       .102      .114       .131
* rncludes sugar
Source: fScional Financiers, 1977.



ANNEX 6
MEXICO                            T-2
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Manufactured Exports (1965-76)
Exports (Millions of US$)               Growth Rate (%)
1965      1970       1974       1976       1965/74      1974574'7
Food products                   37.4      45.6       89.0       104.0       10.1          8.0
Textiles                        25.9      32.1      192.2       119.2      224.9         -5.2
Chemicals                       37.7      69.3      259.0       228.0       23.9         -6.2
Other                         105.8      211.4      692.0       740.8       23.2          5.5
Total Manufacturing
Exports                     206.8      358.4   1,232.3    1,192.0         21.9        -1.6
Total merchandise exports  1,113.9   1,281:3   2,850.0    3,297.8           11.0          7.6
Manufactured/Merchandise
exports (X)                  18.6       28.0       43.2        36.1      n.a.         n.a.
Value added in manufactured
exports a/                   64.1      125.4      479.3       405.3      25.0         -8.0
Value added in assembly
industry                      -         80.9      443.5      520.1       n.a.          8.4
Total value added in
-manufactured exports         64.1      206.3      912.8       925.4      34.3          0.7
Value added in
manufacturing             5,233.9   7,672.0  16,721.9   19,637.7          -             -
VA in manufactured exports/
manufacturing (Z)             1.5        2.7        5.5         4.7       n.a.        n.a.
Source:  Banco de Mexico Indicadores Economicos and Informe Anual, various
issues
a/ Value added in manufacturing exports is estimated at 31% of output for 1965.
35% in 1970, and 34% in 1974 and 1976 (based on data from Direcci6n General de
Estadisticas), 'Mex$ converted to US$ at exchange rates of 12.50 in 1965, and 1970,
Mex$14.30 in 1974, and M!ex$15.40 in 1976.



MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
-Indicators of Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability from the
Mexican Banking System (as at year-end)
1970         1971          1972          1973          1974          1975          1976
(1) Non-monetary peso Liabilities
of Banking system a/
Mex$ billions                   119.9        139.4         162.5         178.5         208.3         258.4         258.7
as % of GDP                     28.6          30.8          31.7          28.8          25.6          25.8          22.0
(2) Total Banking System Credit
Outstanding (peso denominated)
Mex$ billions                  130.1         154.0         173.5         192.5         232.2         290.8         392.2
as % of GDP                     31.1          34.0          33.9          31.1          28.5          29.1          32.1
(3) Banking System Credit to
Private Sector
Mex$ billions                   93.5         109.7         116.4         124.9         153.4         183.2         223.1
as % of (2)                     71.8          71.2          17.0          64.9          64.1          63.0          56.9
as % of GDP                     22.3          24.2          22.7          20.2          18.9          18.2          18.3
(4) Banking System Credit to
Manufacturing Industry
Mex$ billions                   33.3          38.5          40.0          42.6          55.5          71.2          98,1
as % of (2)                     25.4          25.0          23.0          22.1          24.0          24.5          25.0
(5) Banking System Credit to
Private Manufacturing Industry
Mex$ billions                   27.2          31.8          30.2         -32.5          42.4          48.7          63.7
as % of (2)                     20.9          20.6          17.4          16.9          18.3          16.7          16.2
a/  The term 'non-monetary liabilities' is used in this context to refer to all liabilities of the banks except checking
accounts and other demand deposits.



HBXICO             '                                 AN.8BX 6
t-o of fSpt ea 30, 1977)
Clossif iont   of           During Co_it-ant of           D-urig Coitant of
SuboroisOto                        PON8I I                       FOlII                            TOtALS
Proj cts    mlieP. Protects                Hiiop                                         2
By CbARACThlISTIC OF
FIRM
Avorooe lion of Pire
50 nod ions  13          ~~~~~239.7        12           321.3        23         27.5     561.3        22.0
50 - 100              10          1888              12           159.6       14          15 4     348 4       13.6
101  - 200                  9          214.0              3            74.8        12         13.2     248.8       11.3
201  - 300                  5          144.0              1            34.3         6          6.6     178.3         7.0
301  - 400                  1           37.5              3           101.5        4           4.4     139.0         5.4
401  - 500                  1           20.0              -            -           1          11.0      20.0        0.8
500                      1           37.5              5           272.7        6           6.6     310.2        8.2
Un-loonifiod                8           184 3            13           525.3        23         25.3     709.6        27.8
Totol                 48        1,065.8             43        1,489.8         91        100.0   2,555.6       100.0
Lo..tino
Menico City                13           246.4            12           310.5        25         27.5     556.9        21.8
Gondalojoen nod
Mootorosy                 8           149.6             7           197.0        15         16.5     346.6        13.6
Other  njoro itios         22          515.1             14           425.1        36         39.6     940.2        36.8
Otbor oroon                 S          154.7             10           557.2        13         16.5     711.9        27.6
Totol                 48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91        100.0   2,555.6       100.0
Type of Firm
Ne                         16          475.6             20           674.9        36         39.6   1,150.5       45.0
Eroynoion                  32          590.2             23           814.9       53          60.4   1,405.1       55.0
Tctal                 48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8       91         100.0   2,553.6      100.0
BY CHARACTERISTIC OF
LOAN
(MooS illioun)
Sion of Lon-
25 ad loon               26          248.2             17           215.1        43         47.3     463.3        18.1
26 - 30                    22          417.6             12           408.6        34         37.4   1,226.2       48.0
51 - 75                    -            -                13           776.1       13          14.3     776.1        30.4
75                       -            -                 1            90.0        1           1.1      90.0         3.5
Totol                48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91        100.0   2,555.6      100.0
Motority (Y-oo)
0 - 3                     S          112.8             11           298.5       16          17.6     411.3       16.1
5.1 - 8                   33          652.3             27           939.6       50          54.9   1,591.9       62.3
0.1 - 10                   6          198.3              4          151.7        10          11.0     390.0       15.3
10                      4          102.4              1           40.0          5          5.5     162.4        6.4
Total                48        1,065.8             43        1,489.8        91         100.0   2,555.6      100.0
Dunk FiD-ocing
A Sobprojectn              21          617.7             16          819.7         37         40.6   1,437.4       56.2
0 Sobprtjnotn              19          255.4             22          595.3        41          45.1     850.7       33.3
0Q -.n of Book food.        R          192.7              5           74.8         13         14.3     267.5        10.5
Tot.l                48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91.      100.0    2,555.6       100.0
BY CHARACTERISTIC OF
SU5P80JECT
Pe tipation of Output
Inport oubntitotiOo        19          492.3             23           634.7       42         46.1    1,147.0         44.9
Import cbotitcttio-eort 14             260.3              7           329.4        21         23.1     589.7         23.1
loport                     13          313.2             13           305.7        28         30.8     018.9         32.0
Totol                48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91        100.0   2,555.6        100.0
Sobsector
Food                        5            83.8             1           34.3          6          6.6     118.1          4.6
Beverase                    1             7.5             -            -            1          1.1       7.5          2.9
Teotilon                    1            37.5             1            3.5          2          2.2      41.0          1.6
Inthor                      1             8.5             -             -           1          1.1       8.5           -
Pop-o                       4           122.5             2           92.3          6          6.6     214.8          8.4
Bldg. _t-rdl 6 ceneot       4            89.1             2           78.6          6          6.6     167.7          6.6
Gln-                       1            28.8             -             -           1          1.1      28.8          1.1
d.i-nl1  6 petro-hboirols 10            203.4            16          446.9         26         28.6     650.3         25.4
Motal products             20           453.5            16           624.2        36        139.5   1,077.7         42.2
Eloctric.l prodorto         1            31.2             5          210.0          6          6.6     241.2          9.4
Total                48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91        100.0   2,555.6        100.0
Fionocil Bo.n of Rtotoo
10 - 14.99                  9           298.2            12           486.5        21         23.1     784.7         30.7
15 - 19.99                  9           235.1            18           645.4        27         29.7     880.5         34.5
20 - 24.99                 10           293.7             3           131.8        13         14.3     425.5         16.6
25 - 29.99                  4            64.6             3            89.2         7          7.7     153.8          6.0
30 - 34.99                  6            63.1             3           102.2         9          9.9     105.3          4.1
35 -                        4           101.5             4            34.7         8          8.8     136.2          5.3
Not nalno-ntod              6            95.9           _               -           6          6.8       95.9         3.7
Toto1 ONEI          48        1,065.8             43         1,489.8        91       100.0    2,555.6        100.0
Totol Projoct Canto             2,666.1                       4,882.6                          7,548.1
F1NEI, 2 of Toto1                 40.0                           30.5                             33.9
A-orgo Cost
No. of Projorto           No. of Jobs           Toto1 I-yeotmot Cost               Par .ob
Cast  pot Job                                                                     (U05 nillion)                   (V85)
(05$)
I.e-- thon 13,000                   19                   4,445                         30.76                       6,900
13,001-40,000                       29                  3 829                          72.77                      19,000
40,001_80,000                       23                  2,110                         110.676                     50,100
Morn th e 80,000                    14                     929                         163.70 b/                 176,000 bl
- aroiloi.                          6                  0.0.                           19.33                       0.0
Totol                   91                  11,414                         397.24                      33,00O b/
of IDtlodiDg projstts -o finoocod yith B-ak ftuds.
b/  Th..e figra ore diotortnd by coo vry lrg pro.jont fop  Us$87.8 million of vhith FOb        I dionood only 32.  Thin project
woo o highly onpithe    ioton..i  chomical project hn-ing an i8 othe     .os.t pe job  -roted of US* 321.000.  If this prO.jt
-1onoldod, tbhovorogo cot p-r job cro.ntd fcc rho 84  tber project  for  hbih dato in oviloble vould be oS26,000.



ANNPX 6
T-5
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI's Income Statement and Balance Sheet (1972-1977)
(Mex$ millions)
INCOME STATEMENT                                         Audited                     _                  Estimated
1972         1973        1974          1975         1976                1977
Interest Income                  5.8         10.3         18.8          47.8        77.4                134.7
Commissions                       _            -           0.2           0.8         1.3                  1.0
Total Income                   5.8         10.3         19.0         48.6         78.7                135.7
Interest Expense                               -           6.4          32.6        68.6                119.1
Commission Expense               1.4          3.3          3.0           2.0         6.7                 13.0
Cross Spread                   4.4          7.0          9.6         14.0          3.4                 3.6
Administrative Expense           2.3          4.2          7.2           8.1         9.8                 13.9
Operating Profit
(Loss)                           2.1          2.8          2.4          5.9         (6.4)              (10.3
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Liquidity in Banco de
Mexico                      124.2         87.4           51.3         4.4        29.2                  63.1
Outstanding Credit             -          57.7         294.7       726.2       995.3                1,607.5
Interest & Commissions
Payable                       4.0          5.0           8.0        14.6        14.7                   34.5
Fixed and Other Assets        0.4          0.4           0.4         0.3          0.5                   0.5
Total Assets                128.6        145.5         354.4       745.5    1,044.7                1,705.6
Liabilities
Bank Loan 824-ME               -            -          116.0       260.0       606.5                 735.1
Bank Loan 1205-ME             -             _
Banco de Mexicooeries A)    -              -          100.0        332.0       375.0                 375.0
Banco de Mexico3eries B)    -              _                         -         100.0                 399.9
Other liabilities            1.5         15.6           6.0          8.6        20.8                  25.9
Total Liabilities           1.5         15.6         222.0       600.6    1,102.3                1,842.9
Equity
Paid-in Capital           125.0         125.0         125.0       131.7       146.0                 161.2
Accumulated Profits         2.1          4.9            7.4        13.2          6.8                  (3J5)
Exchangc Rate Loss           -                   -        _                  (210.4)               (295.0)
Total Equity            127.1        129.9          132.4       144.9       (57.6)               (137.3)
Total Assets =
Liabilities + Equity       128.6        145.5          354.4       745.5    1,044. 7               1,705.6



ANNEX 6
T- 6
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Operations Projections (1978-1982)
(Current Prices)
1977        1978      1979      1980     1981      1982
Approvals
No. of projects                  32          36         42       48        48        48
Average size                     34.0        45.0       50.0     55.0      55.0      55.0
Total (Mex$ millions)         1,108.0    1,620      2,100    2,640    2,640    2,640
Disbursements
28% of approvals of the year              453.6      588.0   739.2    739.2    739.2
47% of approvals of 1 year ago             511.8     761.4 1,987.0  1,240.8  1,240.8
22% of approvals of 2 years ago                      239.8   356.4    462.0    580.8
3% of approvals of 3 years ago            125.2      65.3.    43.4     48.6      63.0
Total (Mex$ millions)          1,091.1   1,654.5 2,126.6  2,490.6  2,623.8



MEXICO                                 ANNEX 6
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI)PROJECT             T-7
FONEI: Loan Commitments and Resouces (1978-1982)
(Mex$ millions)
1978      1979       1980        1981       1982
Loan commitments                         1620.0    2100.0    26400.0    26400.0    26400.0
Available for commitments from
existing resources:
1. Uncommitted portion of
FONEI II                              48.0
2. Banco de Mexico bonds
series B                              30.0      -           -           -         -
3. Loan repayments                      163.9      280.0      317.5       507.1     782.0
4. Profits and Other                     28.0       56.4      108.5       253.5     341.8
New resources needed for
commitments                            1350.1    1763.6       2214.0     1879.4    1516.2
New resources for commitment             1350.1    1763.6      2214.0      1879.4    1516.2
1. Bank FONEI III                       925.2-   1260.0      104.80
2. Banco de Mexico bonds
series C                            424.9      503.6       101.9
3. Banco de Mexico bonds
series D and other new resources       -                  2007.3     1879.4   1516.2
a/ (1,620.0 - 48.0 - 30.0) x .60
b/ 2100 x .60
c/ 2290 - 925.2 - 1260



ANNEX 6
MEXICO                                 T-8
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Resource Position(1978-1982)
(Mex$ millions)
1978       1979        1980       1981        1982
Disbursements                          1,091.9    1,654.3    2,126.0    2,490.6    2,623.8
Available for disbursements                       1,793.0    2,498.0
from existing resources
1. Bank - FONEI II for
loans approved:
a. Before Dec. 1977                   464.0      326.0       -          -
b. After Dec. 1977                     36.0       12.0       -          -
2. Banco de Mexico bonds
series B for loans approved:
a. Before Dec. 1977                   377.0      113.1       -          -
b. After Dec. 1977                     23.0        7.0       -          -
3. Repayments of loans made:
a. Before Dec. 1977                   163.9      280.0       245.3      273.6       253.8
b. After Dec. 1977                     -          -           72.2      233.5       528.2
4. Profits and other                      28.0       56.4       108.5      253.5       341.8
New resources needed for
disbursements                                       860.0    1,700.0    1,730.0    1,500.0
New resources for disbursement            -         860.0    1,700.0    1,730.0    1,500.0
Bank FONEI III                                    360.0    1,250.0       680.0        -
Banco de Mexico bonds Series C         -          500.0       450.0       30.0        -
Banco de Mexico bonds Series D and    -            -           -       1,020.0    1,500.0
other new resources
Total Funding                         1 091.9    1,654.5    2,126.0    2,490.6    2,623.8



ANNEX 6
MEXICO                                                 T-9
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI: Past and Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
(Mex$ millions)
1974      1975        1976        1977         1978        1979       1980       1981       1982
Beginning Working Capital           87.4      51.6          4.4        29.2        63.4        49.4       49.7       70.1       44.2
Sources
Bank Loan 824-ME                116.0      150.7       373.3       161.5         -           -          -          -          -
Bank Loan 1205-ME                 -          -           -         307.0       500.0       338.0        -          -          -
Bank PONEI III                    -          -           -           -           -         360.0    1,2zo.0      680.0        -
Banco de Mexico A               100.0      232.0        43.0         -           -            -          -          -          -
Banco de Mexico B                 -          -         100.0       299.9       400.0       120.1         -         -          -
Banco de Mexico C                 -          -           -           -           -         500.0      450.0       30.0        -
Banco de Mexico D and other       -          -           -           -           -            -          -        102.0   1,500.0
Other liabilities                 (9.5)      2.6        12.2         5.1        25.5        31.1       29.2       30.4       28.4
Profits                            2.4       5.9         (6.4)     (10.3)         5.1       53.3      136.1      236.8      370.6
Equity-a/                         -          6.7        14.3        15.2        16.4        42.6       72.0        78.0       84.4
Loan recoveries                    1.5      13.0        58.5       109.3       163.9        280.0     317.5      507.1       782.0
Total Sources              210.4      410.9       594.9       887.7    1,110.9    1,723.1   2,254.3   2,382.3   2,765.4
Applications
Loans disbursed                 243.5      444.5       327.6       721.5    1,091.9    1,654.5   2,126.0   2,390.6   2,623.8
Increase in interest and
commissions receivable             2.8       6.6         5.1        14.8        16.2        27.5        36.2      39.6        39.6
Increase in other receivables   0.2         (0.1)        0.2         -           0.1          0.2       0.2        -          -
Amortization Loan 824-ME- I/       -         6.7        26.8        32.9        30.0         32.2       34.6       37.1       39.8
Amortization Loan 1205-MEW        -          -           -           -           -          25.0       53.1       57.7        62.7
Exchange rate loss                -          -         222.6       102.3         -            -         -           -          -
Amortization of exchange
rate loss a/                      -          -         (12.5)      (17.7)      (13.6)       (14.6)    (15.7)       16.8      (18.1)
Total Applications        246.5      457.7       570.1       853.8    1,124.6    1,724.8   2,234.4   2,608.2   2,745.1
Increase (Decrease) in
Working Capital                    (36.1)    (46.8)        24.8        33.9       (13.7)        0.3       20.4      (25.9)      20.3
Ending Working Capital              51.3        4.4        29.2        63.1        49.4        49.7       70.1       44.2       64.5
a/ Amounts shown for amortization are used to increase equity and to reduce the accumulated exchange rate loss.



MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (PONEI) PROJECT                         ANNEX 6
T-10
FONEI: Past and Projected Balance Sheet
(Mex$ millions)
Historical                  Est.                              Projected
1974        1975        1976        1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982
Assets
Liquidity in Banco de
Mexico                      51.3         4.4        29.2        63.1        49.4       49.7        70.1        44.2        64.5
Outstanding Credit         294.7       726.2       995.3    1,607.5    2,535.5    3,910.0   5,718.5    7,702.0    9,543.8
Interest & Commissions
Payable                      8.0        14.6        14.7        34.5        50.7       78.2       114.4       154.0       190.9
Fixed and Other Assets       0.4         0.3         0.5         0.5         0.6        0.8         1.0         1.0         1.0
Total Assets               354.4       745.5    1,044.7    1,705.6    2,636.2    4,038.7   5,904.0    7,901.2    9,800.2
Liabilities
Bank Loan 824-ME           116.0       260.0       606.5       735.1       705.1      622.9       638.3       601.2       561.4
Bank Loan 1205-ME            -           -           -         307.0       807.0   1,120.0    1,066.9    1,009.2          946.5
Bank FONEI III               -           -           -           -           -        360.0    1,610.0    2,290.0    2,290.0
Banco de Mexico A          100.0       332.0       375.0       375.0       375.0      375.0       375.0       375.0       375.0
Banco de Mexico B            -           -         100.0       399.9       799.9      920.0       920.0       920.0       920.0
Banco de Mexico C            -           -           -           -           -       500.0        950,0      980.0       980.0
Banco de Mexico D
and Other                    -           -           -           -           -          -           -       1,020.0       252.0
Other liabilities            6.0         8.6        20.8        25.9        51.4       82.5       111.7       142.1       170.5
Total Liabilities         222.0       600.6    1,102.3    1,842.9    2,738.4   4,030.4    5,671.9    7,373.5    8,763.4
Equity
Paid-in Capital            125.0       131.7       146.0       161.2       177.6      220.2       292.2       370.2       454.6
Accumulated Profits          7.4        13.2         6.8        (3.5)        1.6       54.9       191.0       427.8       798.4
Exchange Rate Loss           -           -        (210.4)    (295.0)    (281.4)   (266.8)    (251.1)    (234.3)    (216.2)
Total Equity             132.4       144.9       (57.6)    (137.3)    (102.2)         8.3      232.1       563.7    1,036.8
Total Assets
Liabilities + Equity        354.4       745.5    1,044.7    1,705.6    2,636.2   4,038.7    5,9.04.0    7,901.2    9,800,2



MEXICO                                    ANNEX 6
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT               T-ll
FONEI:  Past and Proiected Income Statements
(Mex$ millions)
Historical            Est.                  Projected
1974    1975    1976         1977        1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Interest Incc=          18.8    47.8    77.4        134.7       236.9   404.8   641.5   934.9  1239.7
Commissions              0.2      0.8      1.3         1.0         2.0     1.5      1.0      1.0     1.0
Total Income          19.0    48.6    78.7        135.7       238.9   406.3   642.5   935.9  1240.7
Interest Expense         6.4    32.6    68.6        119.1       193.3   301.9   451.4   624.3   789.3
Commission Expense       3.0      2.0      6.7        13.0        12.6    23.6    22.0    35.2    33.3
Expense
Spread                 9.6    14.0       3.4         3.6       28.0    80.8   169.1   276.4   418.1
Administrative
Expense               7.2      8.1      9.8       13.9        22.9    27.5    33.0    39.6    47.5
Operating Profit
(Loss)                  2.4      5.9    (6.4)      (10.3)        5.1    53.3   136.1   236.8   370.6
Adjustments for
Exchange Rate Changes a/
Higher Interest
Expense               -        -       -           -           6.6    23.3    48.8    78.7   101.7
Adjusted Profits       2.4      5.9      =  )      (10.3)       (1.5)   3        87.7   158.1   268.9
As a Percentage of Average Total Assets
Historical              Est.                     Projected
1974    1975    1976         1977        1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Interest Income          7.5      8.7      8.7         9.8       10.9    12.1    12.9    13.5    14.0
Commissions              0.1      0.1      0.1         0.1        0.1      0.1      -       -        -
Total Income              7.6     8.8      8.8         9.9       11.0    12.2    12.9    13.5    14.0
Interest Expense         2.6      5.9      7.7        8.7         8.9      9.0      9.1     9.0      8.9
Commission Expense       1.2      0.4      0.7         1.0        0.8      0.7      0.4     0.5      0.4
Total Financial
Expense                3.8      6.3     8.4         9.7         9.7      9.7      9.5     9.5      9.4
Spread                   3.9      2.6      0.4        0.3         1.2      2.4     3.4      4.0      4.7
Administrative
Expense                2.9      1.5     1.1         1.0         1.1      0.8     0.7      0.6      0.5
Operating Profit
(Loss)                 1.0      1.1    (0.7)       (0.7)        0.2      1.6     2.7      3.4     4.2
Adjustments for
Exchange Rate Changes a/
-       -        -           -          0.7      1.6      2.3     2.7      2.6
Adjusted Profits
(Loss)                1.0     1.1   _C07)         (0.7)       0.5)              0.4     0.7      1.6
Average Total Assets  250.0   550.0   895.1        1395.1.    2170.9  3337.5  4971.4  6971.4  8850.7
a] Assuming exchange rate moves to offset differences in Mexican inflation and world inflation of
9%   in 1978 and 1979,  7% in 1980 and 4% in 1981.



ANNEX 6
T-12
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI)PROJECT
FONEI: Principal Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
1.  Disbursements and Resources:       As per Tables T-7 and T-8
2.  Exchange Rate:                     Mex$22.9 = US$1.00, 1978-82
3.  Administrative Expenses:           1978-budgeted increase, with further annual
increases of 20% during 1979-82.
4.  Interest Rates and Commissions (in percent)
a. FONEI-I
i.  Interest Income        9.0
ii.  Interest Expense
-  Bank funds          7.25 + 0.25 1/
-  Banco de Mexico    9.00
b. FONEI-II
i.  Interest Income        Fixed at ACF = 11.5; floating at ACF = 14.0
ii. Interest Expense
-  Bank funds          8.50 + 0.75 1/
-  Banco de Mexico    10.00
c. FONEI-III
i.  Interest Income        Floating at ACF = 14.0 (16.0 to final borrower)
ii. Interest Expense
-  Bank funds          8.50 + 0.75 1/
-  Banco de Mexico    Floating at ACF = 14.0
d. After FONEI III
i.  Interest Income        Floating at ACF = 14.0
ii. Interest Expense
-  All foreign         8.50 + 0.75
resources
-  Banco de Mexico    Floating at ACF = 14.0
1/ Commission paid to Nacional Financiera for loan administration.



ANNEX 6
T-13
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Projected and Realized Exports in 1976 by a Sample of Enterprises Financed by FONEI
(US$'000)
Enterprise                                                Projected                 Actual
Cementos Anahuac del Golfo, '3.A.                           13,890                  14,478
Cementos de Chihual:xua, S.A.                                1,354                     392
Ladrillera Industr:ial, S.A.                                   405                     649
Fabricacion de Ma.quinas, S.A.                               3,248                   2,600
Condumex, S.A.                                               7,200                   2,682
Camesa, S.A.                                                 2,272                   1,910
Promociones Inrvustriales Me>icanas, S.A.                    4,240                     858
Fabricas Orion, S.A.                                         5,704                   1,650
Dekormex, S.A.                                                  736                      28
Quimica Mexama, S.A.                                         4,336                   4,194
Cia. Fundidora del Norte, S.il.                              6,348                       88
Herramientas Nacionales, S.A.                                 1,146                     207
Polynova, S.A.                                                7,952                      _
Tequila Vda. de Romero, S.A.                                    290                     172
Kelsey Hayes de Mexico, S.A.                                  2,192                  5,148
Productos Deshidratados de Me:xico, S.A.                     5,040                   3,607
Flecha Dorada, S.A.                                           2,176                     394
Frexport, S.A.                                                5,256                     984
Taloquimia, S.A.                                              1,080                     844
Industrias Resistol, S.A.                                     4,016                     584
Cia. Siderurgica de GuadalajsLra, S.A.                          -                    1,863
Industrias Monterr,ey, S.A.                                   2,672                     831
Total                    81,553                 44,163



ANNEX 7
MEXICO
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. The Manufacturing Sector and the Financial System
Al   INDICADORES ECONOMICOS, Volume V, No. 10 of September 1977
A monthly publication prepared by Banco de Mexico S.A. giving
statistics on the economy as a whole, on the banking system,
and on industrial production.
A2   ACTIVIDAD ECONOMICA Niumeros 27, 28 and 29 of August to October
1978.  Monthly bulletins published by the Centro de i7studos
Econ6micos del Sector Privado in Mexico, c:ommenting oii recent
developments in monetary policy, private Esector investment,
and industrial activity.
A3   RECUPERACION DE LA ECONOMIA MEXICANA,           1977 - the results
of a survey, carried out by the Instituto 7?anamericano de Alta
Direcci6n de Empresa, into the state of in-vestmeni and
production of 850 private industrial firms.
A4   Economic Projections for the Mexican econ4omy in 1977, 1978 and
1979 prepared by the Centro de Estudios Es on6micos del Sector
Privado in October/November 1977.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Pros ect
Bi   RESUMEN DE LAS CARACTERISTICAS ADMINISTRAT IVAS., F.TNANCIERAS Y
ECONOMICAS DE LOS PROJECTOS FINANCIADQS POCR FONEti An analysis
of the principal characteristics of the suibprojects financed
by FONEI as of November 1977.
B2   FONEI's audited financial statements 1974  to 1976.
C. Selected Working Paper Prepared by Bank Staff.
Cl   The Mexican Financial System - Developmenit, Decline and Recovery.
A working document prepared by the apprai!sal mission



