Document of
FILE Copy                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2295-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
April 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribulon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official dutdes. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$12.50 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and the Mexican Peso has been
floating since then. The rate of exchange has fluctuated in the range of
Mex$22-23 to the US dollar for several months. It was traded at Mex$22.75
per US dollar on March 30, 1978.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACF     =  Index of the average cost of borrowed funds to financieras
(investment banks); this index stood at 14.9 in March 1978.
FOMEX   =  Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados
(Trust Fund for Promotion of Exports of Manufactured Products)
FONEI   =  Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
(Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment)
NAFINSA - Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PEMEX   =  Petroleos Mexicanos, S.A.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO - THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Nacional Financiera, S.A. <NAFINSA).
Guarantor:                United Mexican States.
Project Executing
Agency:                 F'ondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) a Federal
Government trust fund managed by the Banco de Mexico.
Amount:                   US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Seventeen years including four years of grace at an
interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:          Industrialists would receive loans in pesos and
interest charges would be two points above the index
of the average cost of funds to financieras (the ACF
index); interest rates would be adjusted every six
months to reflect changes in this index. (The ACF
index stood at 14.9 in March 1978.)
Project Description:      FONEI would provide medium and long term financing
to industrial enterprises through the commercial
banking system to help finance machinery, equipment
and other fixed assets for projects which would
improve Mexico's balance of payments by increasing
exports of goods or services or by substituting
imports efficiently. The Bank loan would finance
the foreign exchange component of FONEI's financing
over a period of about two years.
Estimated Cost:                                                 US$ million
Total cost of subprojects                 425
Sources of Financing:                                           US$ million      %
]?roject sponsors                         133        31.3
Participating intermediaries               67        15.8
Other local or foreign banks               58        13.6
FONEI                                     167        39.3
of which:
Internally generated funds and
local borrowing                   (67)     (15.8)
Bank loan                          (100)      (23.5)
425      100.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Disbursements:            The loan is expected to be disbursed as follows:
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Years             1979   1980   1981   1982
Annual                    7.6   37.6   38.8   16.0
Cumulative                7.6   45.2   84.0  100.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 1941b-ME of April 11, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the guarantee of United
Mexican States for the equivalent of US$100 million to finance the foreign
exchange component of the Industrial Equipment Fund's (FONEI's) financing over
a period of about two years. The loan would bear interest at 7.5 percent per
annum and would have a repayment period of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace. Resources would be onlent in pesos at a fully adjustable interest rate
two points above the average borrowing rate of financieras. Repayment terms
would be of up to 13 years including 3 years of grace. The Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico
in April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion
which follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creatingta stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector
growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could
not improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure,
credit, and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity
even more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated
steadily, primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.5
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16,. 1978).



-2-
percent per year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic
growth rate made adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employ-
ment difficult. Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively
unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976-- the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stablization program was negotiated which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's program may exceed
US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
percent (January-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments has been reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at



-3-
US$2.2 billion for 1977, compared to US$3.5 billion in 1976. Total public
sector financial requirements dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9
percent in 1977. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increasing.
Perhaps most importantly, there is a general feeling of increased confidence
in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was necessary, but its
price has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second
year in a row GDP grew only by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a
further decline of real per capita income. While control of inflation will
remain as the overriding short-term objective--the Government's announced
target is to reduce inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978
economic program aims at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity
through a recovery of private and public investment. Increased public sector
savings, further strengthening of the financial system and therefore in-
creased availability of credit to the private sector, and continuation of a
carefully managed wage policy (the annual increase in minimum wages agreed
upon in January 1978 averaged about 14 percent) are the main means the
Government will rely upon to attain the above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks ahead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a)  Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth of the last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
receive incomes equal to less than one-half the national
average. The members of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidLy than in the past--it will grow at about
3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which implies an
average annual Lncrease by some 670,000 workers during 1978-82;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
The challenge of providing productive jobs for both new
entrants and existing under-productive workers is an awesome
one.
(b) Crop and livestock production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-65, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-75. This near-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture was relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as
the works became costlier and easily accessible export markets
for high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New
approaches are required now to assure both production growth,
and increases in income for Mexico's poor rural families.



(c) The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much discussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. Public statements by the
present Administration indicate that it wants to reverse
this trend.
(d) The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances much easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e) The rapid growth and heavy concentrations of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcity of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employment opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined,with the intensification of the
Government's family planning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Portillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employment should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above.
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use, should
reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and water
resources. In addition, the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which had



- 5 -
been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Development of intensive agriculture in
the tropics and of a nationwide program to construct tropical small irrigation
and drainage works are also new features of the Government's agricultural
policy. These initiatives, together with the more realistic exchange rate
and remunerative support prices, promise a resumption of growth of production
for both domestic and export markets and increase the possibilities of an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fields. The Government has decided to use these large
hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's over-all development prospects. To meet this objective,
PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the State-owned oil monopoly) has launched an
ambitious six-year investment program amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977
prices (about 25 percent of total public investment). This program would:
(a) almost triple the production of oil and condensates, from 292
million bbl/yeaLr in 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b) more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 million
bbl/year in 1982;
(c)  substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethylene); and
(d) enable export of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about US$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
and incentives maintained for non-petroleum exports, the balance of payments
on current account would shift from a deficit of US$2.1 billion in 1977 to a
surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.
15.       The prospect oE rapidly rising petroleum exports, as well as pre-
viously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery of
agricultural production and exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured
exports, have greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on
the basis of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum production
and exports than those m,entioned above, the current account deficit can be
expected to decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly



-6-
positive by 1982, thus reducing Mexico's external borrowing requirements
(Annex I). Mexico's debt service ratio has been increasing over the
recent past and reached 46 percent in 1977. This comparatively high debt
service ratio is more a reflection of the low level of exports relative to
GNP and the high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks than
it is an indication of a high level of external debt relative to the size of
the economy. When middle income developing countries are ranked by the ratio
of external public debt to GNP, Mexico appears about average. The debt service
ratio is expected to peak at slightly over 50 percent in 1979 and, mainly as
a result of the rapid expansion of petroleum exports, then decline sharply to
levels of around 30 percent in the early 1980's. Debt service on Bank loans
amounts to about 4 percent of public debt service; this ratio is projected to
decrease over the next two years and to increase to some extent afterwards.
The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's total medium and long
term public debt, and this ratio is likely to increase to some extent over the
next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms considering the country's strong medium-and long-term potential and the
comprehensive economic strategy which the Government has adopted to realize it.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
16.       As of February 28, 1978, Mexico had received 50 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,624.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1,486.4 million were fully disbursed. As of
February 28, 1978, the Bank held US$2,142.2 million of which US$787.2 million
had not yet been disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for
agriculture and rural development (15 loans for US$923.4 million), 27 percent
for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation
projects (12 loans for US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been
for industry (US$205.5 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism
(US$114 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program and
because of scarcity of counterpart funds, some projects fell behind schedule
in 1976 and 1977. Following review with the Government, a steel loan was
terminated (Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project
was reduced and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan were
cancelled (R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other
projects has been modified. Other projects under implementation and affected
by the stabilization program are being reviewed by the Government and further
discussions will be held with the Bank shortly. By and large, adequate budget
support for the ongoing projects has now been secured. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
17.       As of February 28, 1978, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.5 million, of which US$38.3 million had been sold,
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



-7-
repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.2 million,
consists of US$26.2 million in loans and US$5.0 million in equity. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of February 28, 1978 is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
18.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to: (i) support
policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits of econo-
mic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued economic
growth by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or indirectly
significant contributions to output, exports, and employment; and (iii) help
resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently facing. The Bank
is preferentially supporting projects that make relatively modest demands on
budgetary resources and have a strong positive balance of payments effect,
projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor, projects
that promote higher levels of employment and those that help to decentralize
economic activity. The project under consideration meets the first two of these
criteria and in addition is expected to have a significant employment impact.
19.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent with
the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier approach
has been developed. First, to strengthen infrastructure development and agri-
cultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing popula-
tion more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for rising
import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor and
improve their standards of living through a combination of directly productive,
support and social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen Mexico's
institutional capability to use scarce agricultural resources more efficiently.
In support of this strategy, the Bank has made seven loans over the past four
years, totalling US$579 million, for irrigation, rural development and agri-
cultural and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive Directors
approved a US$120 million loan for an Integrated Rural Development Project--
PIDER II--under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from
directly productive activities. This fiscal year, an agricultural develop-
ment project focusing on the humid tropics was recently approved by the
Executive Directors and an agriculture credit project has been appraised
and will be submitted to the Executive Directors in the coming weeks.
20.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas.  Thus, a major steel project which the Bank helped finance has recently
started operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of
Mexico and the Executive Directors approved a US$50 million loan in FY75 to
support a fertilizer project which promotes new poles of development in the
resource-rich southeast region and the north central area. A small- and
medium-scale industry development project was recently approved by the
Executive Director and a fertilizer project is currently being processed
for submission to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to



- 8 -
help generate additional resources for investment financing: the Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of a specialized institution for efficient supply of bulk drinking
water in the Mexico Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs.
22.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families in
selected priority cities. A project to assist in the development of the
conurbation zone of Lazaro Cardenas was recently approved by the Executive
Directors.
23.       The Government, pressed to reduce the external deficit on current
account, is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign
exchange earnings and promote employment. In support of this policy, the Bank
has granted three loans for tourism projects in Mexico; two to provide infra-
structure in new poles of tourism and one, approved by the Executive Directors
this year, to help finance tourism superstructure.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Background
24.       Over the last decades, manufacturing has grown rapidly in Mexico
and has played an important role in providing employment opportunities. 1/
It directly employed about one quarter of the new entrants to the labor force
between 1950 and 1969. In 1970, manufacturing accounted for approximately
23 percent of gross domestic product, directly employed 17 percent of the
labor force and probably provided indirect employment through related activi-
ties to a similar proportion. Growth in the volume of manufacturing sector
output was 9 percent per year during the 1960s, considerably more rapid than
the 7 percent per year growth in gross domestic product. This impressive
performance was fostered by a large and active class of entrepreneurs, a
comparatively large and growing domestic market, favorable government policies
and the availability of investment financing. During 1970-1975 manufacturing
growth slowed somewhat to 6.2 percent per year, but was still above the
annual GDP growth rate of 5.7 percent. Development of the sector has followed
a pattern common to several other large industrializing countries, with import
1/   A full review of the industrial sector of Mexico may be found in
"Mexico: Manufacturing Sector - Situation, Prospects and Policies"
Dated May 1, 1977, Report No. 1671-ME.



- 9 -
substitution almost complete in consumer goods, and to a lesser extent in
intermediate goods. However, development of the capital goods sector is less
advanced in Mexico than in comparable countries.
25.       Manufacturing is highly concentrated.  The Federal District and the
surrounding State of Mexico accounted for 52 percent of all manufacturing
production in 1975; Nuevo Leon and Jalisco, the states where Monterrey and
Guadalajara are located, had 9.7 and 5.2 percent respectively, with none of
the remaining 29 states having more than 4 percent of the national total.
This concentration is not unusual in industrializing countries because, during
the initial phases, the necessary support services to entrepreneurs are
available mostly in the main cities. Nevertheless, the extent of concentra-
tion is already presenting serious difficulties, particularly in Mexico City
where problems of transport, water supply, and air pollution are becoming
increasingly difficult t:o resolve. The Government has adopted policies to
encourage decentralizatiLon of future industrial development away from Mexico
City, including higher rates for services such as water supply in the Federal
District.
26.       Public enterprises, firms owned by domestic entrepreneurs and foreign-
owned companies co-exist: in Mexico. The public sector's stake in industry
increased rapidly during the 1970s; public investment in manufacturing increased
from 20 percent of totaL industrial investment in 1971 to 59 percent in 1974,
while the private domestic sector's share in new investment declined. Because
of the private sector's hesitancy during the latter years, and because of in-
creasingly scarce credit, this period was atypical. At the same time, the
Government invested substantial resources in a few key industries such as steel,
petroleum, chemicals and fertilizers to assure domestic sources of supply at
low prices so as to infLuence production costs in industries which depended on
these inputs. Foreign owned enterprises have made an important contribution
to industrial production and expansion in Mexico and have been instrumental
in transferring technology. Despite regulation of foreign ownership and of
payments for foreign technology, patents and trademarks introduced in 1973,
foreign private investment remained buoyant from 1973 to 1975. In 1976 and
1977 the pace of both domestic and foreign investment slackened because of
recessionary conditions and the uncertainties caused by the peso devaluation,
but the investment climate has now improved significantly.
Protection
27.       Mexico's industrialization strategy has emphasized import substitu-
tion, and protection for local manufacturing remains an important feature of
industrial policy. Protection was given both by tariffs and, more importantly,
by quantitative restrictions. Although some tariffs are as high as 100 per-
cent, most lie in the 10-30 percent range. Moreover, tariffs have been subject
to numerous exceptions, especially for imports of capital goods. Quantitative
restrictions on the other hand became more widespread as the process of import
substitution progressed. However, levels of realized protection have not been
excessive for most products, and the industrial sector has developed with
reasonable efficiency. With import substitution almost complete in many
industrial subsectors, government policy is now encouraging improvement in



- 10 -
efficiency in those subsectors where prices are still above international
levels, and in areas where there are significant opportunities for further
import substitution such as the mechanical engineering, capital goods and
basic and secondary chemicals. The trend towards stricter import licensing
was reversed in 1977. To promote increased efficiency of manufacturing
industry, licensing requirements are being relaxed and tariffs are being
rationalized.
Exports
28.       Since 1970, increased emphasis has been given to promoting manufac-
tured exports. Export incentives were introduced in 1971 and included
rebates of indirect taxes, duty exemptions on imported inputs and increased
credit to finance export sales. These measures resulted in manufactured
exports growing at 39 percent annually in dollar terms between 1970 and 1974,
compared to 12 percent annually in the previous five years. Excluding exports
by border assembly industries, manufactured exports reached $1.2 billion in
1974, or 20 percent of total goods and service exports. During 1975 and 1976,
the world recession and the increasing over-valuation of the peso led to a
decline in manufactured exports measured in constant prices, but with the
devaluation in late 1976 and the economic recovery that is now starting
manufactured export performance should improve noticeably. The Government has
successfully avoided an acceleration of inflation following the large devalua-
tion in 1976, and moderate cost increments as well as adjustments in the
exchange rate since then have enabled most exporting firms to remain competi-
tive. The bulk of exports come from large firms, though in some sectors such
as food, apparel and footwear, a significant proportion is produced by medium
sized firms. Increasing attention is being given to the role of industrial
associations and trading companies in promoting exports by smaller companies.
Industrial Financing
29.       Mexico's well developed banking system, comprising more than 200
public, private and mixed ownership institutions, has been the primary source
of financing for industry. Commercial banks and investment banks (financieras)
make industrial loans and investments primarily from resources they mobilize in
the private sector via current accounts, deposits, and the issue of certificates
and bonds, but they also have access to discounting facilities with public sector
trust funds. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the banking system developed
rapidly and the volume of outstanding credit grew faster than GDP. Mexico's
open financial system allowed a free flow of capital, and the long period of
exchange stability encouraged foreign deposits in Mexican banks and foreign
borrowings by Mexican firms. Credit was readily obtained by industrial firms
judged to be a reasonable credit risk. Nevertheless, certain structural
weaknesses were apparent by the early 1970s. One was an excessive conserva-
tism in credit allocation. Guarantees substantially in excess of the legal
minimum (133 percent of credit granted) were required, and even credit for
projects requiring term financing was decided primarily on the basis of the
collaterals offered, rather than on the basis of appraisals of the merits and
income earning characteristics of investment projects. The excessively
short-term structure of the banking system's non-monetary liabilities resulted
from insufficient interest rate premiums to savers for longer term deposits.
This limited the amount of longer term financing that banks could provide.



- 11 -
30.       To improve the amount and nature of credit available to industry,
the financial authorities developed a system of trust funds, which provide
partial financing to banks for term loans for projects meeting eligibility
requirements. Trust funds are in two groups; Nacional Financiera S.A.
administers three which are designed to support the development of small and
medium scale industry, while the Banco de Mexico administers two other closely
related trust funds: Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI) and Fondo de
Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados (FOMEX). FONEI
provides medium and long term financing for investment projects designed to
increase exports or efficiently substitute imports, and FOMEX provides shorter
term export sales financing and has recently been given additional resources
to finance the sale of domestic capital goods to Mexican buyers. FONEI, which
has received two previous Bank loans, will be the executing agency for the
proposed project. A Bank loan to assist small and medium industry through the
aforementioned trust funds administered by Nacional Financiera was recently
approved by the Executive Directors.
31.       Since 1973, increased inflation and tighter control of credit
expansion and interest rates have slowed down the growth of the financial
system and reduced credit availability, particularly longer-term credit.
An insufficient differential between domestic and foreign interest rates,
together with growing exchange rate uncertainty led to a fall in the volume
of resources mobilized by the banking system. Excluding demand deposits, the
value of peso denominated s,avings captured by banks declined as a propor-
tion of GDP from 32 percent: in 1972 to 22 percent in 1976 while the deepening
public sector deficit further reduced credit available to the private sector,
which fell from 23 percent of GDP in 1972 to 18 percent in 1976. As their
resources declined, banks reduced the average maturity of credit so that by
1976 few loans with terms of more than 5 years were being granted except
with trust fund resources. The 1976 peso devaluation accentuated the problems
of credit scarcity; in the months before and after the devaluation financial
savings contracted sharply and capital flight accelerated, while the larger
companies, which previously relied on borrowings from foreign commercial
sources, suffered heavy losses due to the devaluation and started to rely
increasingly on domestic borrowings.
32.       To boost savings and reverse capital flight, investment banks and
mortgage banks were authorized to offer higher interest rates to savers in
May 1977. This has had a positive impact on the volume of savings captured by
banks. The Mexican authorities have declared their intention of allowing
further adjustment in rates so as to make a healthy growth of financial
savings possible. On the lending side, banks and financieras have been
switching progressively to a system of floating interest rates on medium and
long term loans to reflect increased uncertainties about the future cost of
funds. Most banks are now relating their interest rates to the index of the
average cost of funds borrowed by the financieras (the ACF index), which is
calculated monthly by the Banco de Mexico. Between May 1977 and March 1978
this index has increased from 11.9 percent to 14.9 percent in response to the
increased interest rates paid to savers. Changes have also been made in the
on-lending rates of the trust funds, several of which are now relating their
rates to the ACF Index.



- 12 -
Industrial Employment and Expansion Prospects
33.       While the administration concentrates its efforts on restoring
economic stability in the short term, priority is being given in the medium
term to regaining a rapid rate of industrial growth in order to increase
employment, reduce the trade deficit and stimulate growth in other sectors.
The Government has indicated that emphasis is to be placed on taking advant-
age of remaining opportunities for efficient import substitution, diversifying
and expanding manufactured exports, and promoting more rapid development of
industrial and related activities outside the present areas of geographic
concentration. In agreements signed with groups of industrial enterprises
early in 1977, the authorities undertook to assist the private sector in
carrying out long-term investment plans aimed at increasing production in
various fields, and reaffirmed the Government's commitment to create an
environment favorable to the development of private initiative, complemented
by public enterprise.
34.       The Government appears firmly committed to a policy of increasing
employment opportunities, particularly in urban areas, through an expansion of
industrial activity. In view of the success achieved by the new administration
during 1977 in stabilizing the economy and restoring private sector confidence,
and considering the favorable industrial policies being followed by this admin-
istration, prospects appear good for industry to regain by the early 1980s the
high rates of growth achieved in 1960s. Industrial output is expected to grow
as rising petroleum output and exports reduce the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulate the economy. There are substantial opportunities for growth
in a number of industrial subsectors. Given the Government's policy of
improving efficiency by liberalizing the import licensing system and ration-
alizing tariffs, and the large demand for machinery and equipment resulting
from the expansion of the petroleum industry and basic and secondary petro-
chemicals, the capital goods industry is presented with an excellent oppor-
tunity to expand. Mexican industry also has an excellent opportunity to
continue building on the successful export performance of the early 1970s
and to substantially expand the volume and range of goods exported, provided
the Government continues its present policies of maintaining a realistic ex-
change rate and improving industrial efficiency. The proposed project is
oriented towards partially filling the financing needs of export and efficient
import substitution projects that are also expected to have substantial employ-
ment impact.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed loan's main objectives are to (a) support the Govern-
ment's efforts to stimulate an increased level of industrial investment, (b)
improve Mexico's balance of payments through providing term credit to industrial
projects that lead to exports or substitute imports efficiently, and (c) promote
industrial efficiency by encouraging industrial enterprises to prepare detailed



- 13 -
feasibility studies of their projects and banks to base their lending decisions
on a careful appraisal of the projects. A brief project description may be
found in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The
staff appraisal report (No, 1941b-ME dated April 11, 1978) entitled "Third
Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project" is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. 'Che project was appraised in November 1977 and
negotiations for the Loan took place in Washington in April 1978. The Mexican
negotiating team was headed by Mr. Fernando Torres, representing NAFINSA as
financial agent for the Government, and included Mr. Villase'nor, Director of
FONEI.
36.       The Bank participated actively with the Government in establishing
FONEI in 1971 as a trust fand of the Federal Government administered by Banco
de Mexico, designed to reinforce Mexico's balance of payments by providing
term financing, through commercial and investment banks, to enterprises to
produce industrial goods and services for export markets or to substitute
imports efficiently. To support these objectives the Bank made a US$35 million
loan to FONEI in 1972 which is now fully disbursed. FONEI also received a
capital contribution equivalent to US$10 million from the Government and the
equivalent of about US$30 million in the form of renewable medium term
borrowings from the Banco de Mexico. The Bank made a second loan to FONEI in
January 1976 for US$50 million. In spite of the industrial recession expe-
rienced in Mexico over the past two years, this loan as well as the counterpart
local resources of about US$40 million equivalent are now fully committed,
slightly ahead of schedule.
The Institution
37.       FONEI's Operating Regulations indicate how it seeks to pursue its
objectives. It partially rediscounts loans granted by credit institutions
to finance productive fixed assets. Preference is given to export projects
but import substitution projects are also financed provided they are efficient
and also have reasonable prospects of producing for export in the medium-term.
In order to ensure efficiency, FONEI insists on economic and financial tests
in appraising its projects. The minimum amount of financing provided by FONEI
for a single investment project is Mex$ 4.5 million (about US$200,000 dollars
equivalent), and the maximum is Mex$ 100 million (US$4.4 million equivalent),
though in exceptional cases FONEI can approve financing in excess of the
maximum limit for projects in priority sectors. Within the above limits,
FONEI's financing may cover up to 6t percent of the fixed assets costs for
projects involving new productive capacity, and 72 percent of such costs for
those involving expansions of existing capacity. The final borrower has to
finance from its own resources at least 25 percent of the fixed assets cost
in the case of new projects and 20 percent for expansion projects, with
intermediaries and other banks financing the balance of the cost of assets.
FONEI subloans may be made for a term of up to 13 years with a grace period of
up to 3 years. Assurances, have been obtained that the Bank will be consulted
when changes are made in FONEI's Operating Regulations (Section 2.01(c) of
the draft Project Agreement).
38.       As of October 31, 1977 -- the time of appraisal -- FONEI had approved
91 subloans totalling Mex.$ 2.5 billion. Analysis of these operations confirms
that FONEI has financed economically sound projects that will have a positive



- 14 -
impact on the balance of payments. A majority have been export projects, or
combined export and import substitution projects. FONEI has supported mainly
medium sized and larger industrial firms, since the bulk of Mexican exports
come from such firms and because other institutional mechanisms are available
for supporting the smaller industrial enterprises (see para 30). Approximately
45 percent of FONEI's credit has gone to new firms and a significant proportion
of the remainder has gone to established firms with new product lines. The
industrial activities benefitting most from FONEI operations have been mecha-
nical and electrical engineering (51 percent of total financing) and chemical
products (25 percent). When fully operational, subprojects financed by
FONEI in the past are expected to export goods worth US$180 million equivalent
and substitute about US$440 million of imports each year. They are also
projected to create about 11,000 new jobs at an average cost of about US$26,000
per job. FONEI has also been quite successful in encouraging decentralization
of industrial investments, with nearly 80 percent of its financing going to
enterprises outside Mexico City. On average, projects financed by FONEI in
the past are estimated to yield financial and economic rates of return of
20 percent and 29 percent respectively.
39.       FONEI's Board ("Technical Committee") which is responsible for
the formulation of policy and approval of loans, is composed of ten members,
including high level officials of the various economic ministeries, Nacional
Financiera, Banco de Mexico and the chambers of commerce and industry.
FONEI is headed by capable managers who are supported by a qualified and
motivated professional staff. Following the change of Administration in late
1976, FONEI experienced a substantial turnover in its professional staff,
especially in the Technical Department. However, it has now overcome these
difficulties and has recently streamlined its organizational structure. In
order to meet the expected expansion in its level of operations, FONEI is
planning to increase the number of its professional staff over the next few
years.
40.       FONEI's financial position is sound.  Since it is a second tier
financial institution discounting loans to established banks, its credit
risks are minimal. By assuming the responsibility for repayment of the
previous Bank loans from budgetary resources, the Government has made satis-
factory arrangements for gradual capitalization of FONEI as the latter's
operations grow. FONEI is responsible, however, for paying the interest
and other charges on Bank loans. While FONEI achieved modest profits each
year until 1975, it incurred losses in both 1976 and 1977, mainly as a result
of the peso devaluation; since almost all of FONEI's outstanding subloans
carried fixed interest rates denominated in pesos, FONEI's spread was reduced
drastically. This adverse trend is expected to be reversed with FONEI's
adoption of fully floating interest rates for subloans; FONEI is expected to
be profitable again from 1978 on.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
41.       Since few banks have adequate technical staff to carry out detailed
project appraisals, and since it would not be feasible for FONEI to employ a
large technical staff including specialists in diverse subsectors, FONEI has



- 15 -
used outside consultants to appraise subprojects. The quality of appraisals
is generally good, and finaincial, marketing, technical and economic aspects of
subprojects are coverec adequately.  FONEI has attempted to involve partici-
pating intermediaries n lore closely in the appraisal process and to encourage
them to make their lending decisions on the basis of project appraisals rather
than relying primarily on collaterals for security. However, the relatively
long time taken for appraisal has limited FONEI's success in this endeavour.
FONEI has recently taken several measures to streamline appraisal procedures
and manage the work of consultants more closely; this has reduced FONEI's
total project processing time over the past two years.  FONEI is continuing
its efforts to further reduce the time required to process projects, and has
reaffirmed its willingness to reimburse intermediaries for the costs of
appraisals carried out by them directly or through outside consultants.
42.       FONEI's project supervision activities slackened somewhat during the
last two years due to the rapid growth in its portfolio and the resulting
heavy work load on its technical staff. FONEI has recently taken steps to
correct this through the creation of the new Supervision Department and by
increasing its technical staff. FONEI also intends to increase the direct
involvement of intermediaries in supervision activities.
Future Development of FONEL
43.       FONEI has stepped up its promotional activities over the last two
years in order to achieve a better geographical distribution of its clientele
and to increase the proportion of loans to medium-sized enterprises. In spite
of the generally cautious attitude towards investment, FONEI's loan commitments
grew substantially in both 1976 and 1977.  In total, 28 banks have participated
as intermediaries in FONEI's operations to date. More recently, the recovery
in industrial investment has resulted in a substantial increase in requests
for FONEI financing.
44.       While FONEI's primary focus is on projects designed to increase
the production of manufactured goods, the Government has recently requested
FONEI to assist selected projects designed to expand exports of services
from Mexico's northern border zone. Accordingly, FONEI is examining the
possibility of financing, on an experimental basis, mainly three types of
service exports projects in the northern border areas: (i) the construction
of factory buildings for lease to industries, some of which would be owned by
foreign companies which are not permitted under Mexican Law to own real estate
in the border areas. Such companies frequently wish to take advantage of the
relatively low labor cost and other incentives available in Mexico; (ii) con-
struction of large scale commercial centers designed to sell Mexican goods
to visitors from across the border, and (iii) facilities for enterprises such
as automobile repair centers that can sell services to visitors. FONEI is
in the process of developing detailed criteria for the selection and evalua-
tion of these service export projects.
45.       FONEI expects demand for its resources to rise rapidly over the
next two years as industrial investment recovers and as a result of FONEI's
promotional efforts. Based on estimates of likely demand, FONEI would
require additional resourc:es of about US$145 million equivalent to meet
expected commitments over the next two years. The proposed US$100 million



- 16 -
loan would cover the foreign exchange component of FONEI's financing over
these two years. The Bank of Mexico would provide counterpart resources of
about US$45 million equivalent to enable FONEI to carry out the project.
46.       The principal amount of the proposed loan would remain in FONEI
as equity and FONEI would be charged interest and other charges on the Bank
loan only. The Government will carry the foreign exchange risk on the
principal amount and FONEI would carry the risk on interest and other
charges (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed loan
would be repaid to the Bank on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule
of 17 years including 4 years of grace; no link is called for between the
amortization schedule of the Bank loan and the composite of the amortization
schedule of FONEI's subloans since the Government would provide NAFINSA with
the funds required to repay the principal of the loan.
On-Lending Terms and Conditions
47.       For the Second Bank loan, FONEI agreed to adopt an interest rate
structure to reflect better the trends in interest rates being charged by
banks on term loans made with their own resources. FONEI's interest rate
to final borrowers was linked to the ACF Index, which is considered a realistic
measure of the cost of domestic resources (para 32). Final borrowers were
offered the option of either a fixed interest rate, equal to the FONEI's
interest rate prevailing at the time of signing the subloan, or a floating
rate adjustable every six months to match FONEI's prevailing interest rate.
Reflecting continued trends in the banking system towards the use of freely
floating interest rates based on the ACF index, FONEI further modified its
interest rate structure in April 1977. Since then, its interest rate has been
set at 2.0 percentage points above the ACF index and is adjusted every six
months for both new and outstanding subloans. This mechanism to determine
interest rates to final borrowers would apply for purpose of the project
(Section 2.02 of the Draft Project Agreement). As of March 1978, FONEI's
prevailing interest rate under the above mechanism was 17 percent.
48.       To ensure a reasonable diversification of Bank resources, the total
amount of the Bank loan proceeds that could be onlent for a single subproject
would normally be limited to US$5 million (Section 2.02(c)iv of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Bank would be prepared to consider exceptions in the
case of subprojects with high economic merit which do not have access to
alternative sources of finance on adequate terms.
Free Limits
49.       Expenditures for subprojects designed to expand service exports
(para. 44) would be eligible for Bank financing under the loan. Given the
experimental nature of these operations the Bank would review all service
export subprojects until satisfactory criteria for their evaluation had been
evolved with FONEI for each main type of service export subproject,as evidenced
by reviewing its appraisals. Unless the Bank should otherwise agree, the



- 17 -
cumulative amount of the loan proceeds available to finance service export
subprojects would.be limited to US$10 million (Section 2.02(c)iii of the draft
Loan Agreement).
50.       All other subprojects requiring more than US$1.5 million of Bank
financing would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank (Section
2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). This represents a doubling of the free
limit that was applicable under the Second FONEI Loan and is justified because
the average project size FONEI is expected to finance will increase as a result
of inflation and because of FONEI's greater experience in project evaluation.
It is expected that the Bank would review about one third of the industrial
goods subprojects; these and the service export projects which would be re-
viewed would represent about half the amount of the proposed Bank loan.
Procurement
51.       Procurement wou:Ld follow standard Bank guidelines for DFC operations.
In carrying out subproject appraisals, FONEI verifies that goods and services
procured are competitive in price and quality -- it considers various offers,
both national and foreign -- and that they are suitable for the purposes intended.
In addition, FONEI ensures through documentation procedures and plant visits
by its own staff, or the staff of the intermediary bank, that the proceeds of
its financing are only used for the list of goods and services authorized by
FONEI at the time of subloan signing. FONEI would give special attention to
procurement in the larger subprojects.
Disbursement and Auditing
52.       Disbursement of the loan would be made for the fully documented
CIF cost of direct imports and imported goods purchased "off-the-shelf" from
domestic distributors if CIF prices can be established; where CIF prices
cannot be determined, disbursements would be made for 70 percent of "off-the-
shelf" costs of the imported goods, the estimated foreign exchange cost. In
the case of locally manufactured machinery and equipment and local payments
for installation and industrial construction, disbursement would be made for
25 percent of FONEI's financing of fully documented expenditures, which is
a conservative estimate of the foreign exchange cost of such expenditures.
As in the past, FONEI's accounts would be audited annually in a form accept-
able to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
53.       By increasing resources available to FONEI to finance industrial
projects leading to exports or substituting imports efficiently, the proposed
project would help the recovery of industrial investment and would have a
substantial impact on Mexico's balance of payments. The proposed loan would
help FONEI partially finance about 80 subprojects involving aggregate invest-
ments of about Mex$ 9.7 biillion. Based on the characteristics of the FONEI's
past operations, subprojects financed under the loan are expected to lead to
net annual foreign exchange earnings, or savings, of about US$130 million
equivalent at full capacity; they would also have a substantial employment
impact, generating 13,000 to 16,000 new jobs at an average investment cost of
US$26,000 to US$33,000 equivalent per job.. A significant proportion of
FONEI's financing is expected to support projects outside Mexico City, thus
helping the Government to decentralize industrial development.



- 18 -
54.       The project would also help FONEI achieve a number of important
institutional improvements, including an increased reliance on sound appraisal
techniques in lending by Mexican banks and strengthened project supervision
procedures. The scope of FONEI's operations and promotional activities would
be broadened and the capacity of FONEI's staff would be expanded through
appropriate recruitment and training.
55.       As the third Bank operation with FONEI, which has developed a
capable management and sound operating policies and procedures, the project
presents no special risk. Should the recovery in industrial investment, which
began in the second half of 1977, not maintain its momentum, the loan would be
used at a slower rate than expected, but this is not likely in view of the
attitude taken by the present administration to restore the private sector's
confidence.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de Mexico, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 19, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
NIEXICO             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (TfOU KM2)-- ---
_--------------                      MEXICO                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1972.5                                       M7TT RECEN'
AGRIC.     950.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE            BRAZIL         CHILE           SPAIN****
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     370.0*    690.0*  1090.0*/a               550.0*      820.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            36.0       50.4       62.0 /a             92.B         9.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        18.0       26.0      31.0 /a              11.0       12.0         67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         36.o       52.0      65.0 7a              49.0       58.0        105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1       43.8       42.0                38.4        32.9        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           14.0       10.2        8.6                 9.9        11.0          8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         74.0       68.5       52.0               110.0        79.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        56.3       62.4       64.7                59.4        60.6        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        3.1        3.0                 2.6         2.2         1,4
POPULAT1ON GROWTH RATE (Y)
TOTAL                                  3 .1       3.5        3.5                 2.9         2.4         1.1
URBAN                                  4.9        4.8        5.1                 5.0         3.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           50.7       58.7      63.3                 55.9        76.0        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.8        46.2       46.3                42.0        39.0        27.B
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.9        50.1       50.3                55.0        56.3        62,5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.3        3.7        3.4                 3.0         4.7         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0        1,0        1.D                 0.8         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6        2.0        1.B /b              1 .5        1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..       ST.       321.1               250.0       403. ,5
USERS (% OF MARR;ED WOMEN)               .         ,.       13.1                 1.6                .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         11300.0   13000.0   16600.0               29400.0      2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          54.0       45.0       41.0                40.4        21.0        25,o
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)                                  6 6/a,c             7.5         4.1 /8      1,1 l.a
INCOME DISTR.BUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              /7 Ia  27 9            **                35.0  /a   31.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLOS            DD.8 7a  58.3            *x                62.0  TaE  55.8
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.5 7a   3.4            **                 3.0 7i      4.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            10.3 71  10.5            **                10.0 7v    13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..      37.1         .,                45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..       0.3          ..                1.5           .
HEALTH AND N4UTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1800.0    1480.0                          1910.0      2210.0 /b   740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2830.0 /b 162C  ,a        .               3220.0 /b  5830.0 7O F
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            590.0 7Y  9f3.0       830.0 /d            260.0 -    270.0 -    220 .0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         107.0      105.0      117.0               109.0       101 .0      107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0       65.0       66.9                64.0        71.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          29.0 /d   2.RD/b    27.5                  39.0        32.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             12.7        9.8        8.4 /e                ..        3.9          0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        80.0      104.0      111.0                87 .0     107.0        123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      11.0       22.0       30.0                            39.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              17.0       12.1       12.0                11.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      24.0       24.0           ,               17.0        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 62.0 /e   76.0        76.0                64.0        90.0         94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.2          ,,                 1.0         1.3 /c
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                       76.0 /f   61.0 /c       ..                73.0 Ic    40.0 ICd
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                             730        _4 __C
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    .        5. 9.0        ,                48.0           ,
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..      28.0          .,                8.0                 .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0      276.0      301.0                 60.0       143.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           14.0        24.0       40.o                25.0        18.0        71.
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           313.0      567.0      724.0               491.0        806.0      1634 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.8        3.2        3%6                 2.7         5. 0        5 a
-- - - - - - - - ---   I   --
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, duta for 1960 refer te any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimste betw.een
1973 aud 1971.
GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology  (1974-76 basis).
** Income ditrnbutio.n data for 1975 currently be inP revised.
Sn.  Spain han been selacted as an objective country because its per capita intone is higher than Mexioos, and because both countries hove in conmon
the leportance of tourise and the influence of nearby richer countries.
MEXICo     1960      /a  1963;    /b  incladeu midwifery and nursing asailliaries;               /c  1962;      /d  1961-62;       /e  Si  yearn and noer;        /f  Innide
only.
19/ I0    a  Including assistant norses;          /b  1964-66;      /c  Inside only.
MOSF RECENT iSTIMATE:    /a  1976;          /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;                 /c  Larger cities  only;
Id  197i;      /.  1972.
BRAZtIL    1970    /a   .o.o.mically active population;           /b  Hospital personnel;         /c  Inside only.
CHILE      1970      Ga iran Santiago;    Lb  Personnel in government services only;                /c  Data refer to households;          /d  Inside only.
SPAlN      i970      Ia  Eploment office estimate;           Lb  Registered, not all practicing in the  -osntry.
R10, February 14, 1978
DOFINIDTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Anes (th-ouk2                                                                              Pseslatison pe0 nsinig persos - Popslation divided by number of practiclng
TotaL - rotal s-rface area c-oprising land area and island waters.                                sale  and female graduate noose  "trained" or "certified"           es, ad
- Most retest  -scimate of agricultsral area used temperaeily or pe=a-                    atxiliary pereonnol with trafiing so e-p-io-enc.
netiLy for coops, pantores, sacket & kitchen gardase  or to lie fallow.                      PoPslation  ser horsital bed - Populaticn divided by number of hospital beds
asailable is public end Private gene.ral and specialised hsspltal and
GNl  pr ca- ito  7US$) - INP per -apita estimates at corrent merket prices,                       rehabilitatio  rerters;esl. desld   nursing hons  aeid -estbliaohers  for
ca:colated by tsae conversiot method us World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                       custodial and preventive care.
1960: 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                    Per capita supply of calories  17. of re.sirmenet.) - Computed from energy
eqoivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Popslon  and  oital statistic                                                                     available supplies cosprise dnsestic peoductior, imports Ioss e-pertt. and
f'opnlarlot (old-year million)   A 75 of July first;  if not available, average                  changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal foed, seeds, quantitie  -sed
of r.o end-year estimates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data.                                            in fond proceussig and losses in distribution; requirenents were estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and healbt cna-id-
Popslactin density  - per square ko - Mid-year population per squ-ee kiloeter                    ering enviro-tnnal temperature, body weights, age end sex distributions of
(100  hectarcof  tosal are.                                                                    population, asd allowing 107, for waste at household level.
population density - per square k  of agric. Iand - Computed as above for                       Per capita supply of protein (grm  per day) - Protein contest of per capita
agoiculcural land only.                                                                        net supply of food per day; net eupply of food is defined as aboe; require-
meots  for all cn.ntries established by USDA tEon-nio Research Servic
Vital statistics                                                                                  provide for a oiflen-s allowance of 60 grtsa of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rtce per thousand. averare - Annual live births per thousand of                       20 grass of ani=al and pulse protein, of which 10 grass should be anboal
old-year population; ten-year arithletic averages ending in 1960 snd 1970,                      protein; these standards sre Iloer than those of 75 grass of total protein
oc  fiye-ye-a aoerage onding ie 1975 for mast recent estisste.                                  and 23 go-ns of -eissal protein as an aeerage for the world, proposed by FAn
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Anuval deaths per thousand of aid-year                   in the Third World Food Survey.
popuatrion; ten-year arithrletic averages ending is 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Per capita Proteis  eueply from  animal  sod pulse  - Protein supply of fond
sear ac_ra_g  ending tn 1975 for 005t recent estiasto.                                          derived from animals asd pulses in grass per day.
Infa ;t oootaIAcy  rt   7/csn  - Annual deaths of infantu under one year of age                Death rate (/thou)  asge  1-i  - An.ua  daths po  thousand in ag  grop 1-f
per chousand 1o- blotsc.                                                                        years, to children In this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life enpectanoy or birth (yors) - Average ntmber of years of life remalinig at                   1nalntriti.n.
birth; asually five-ycar a-erages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                               Education
Gross rekproduction  rote-borage ctmber of live daughters e wonan will bear                     Adiustedrllment ratio - primary school - EnrolLment of  11 ages as per-
if  her sormal -eprod-ctise period if  he experiences presenrt age-specific                     centage of primary sohool-age populatin; includes childrer aged 6-11 years
fertility  rates', unlly flVe-vear averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries oft?
for deoelaping c-oucrin.                                                                        universal education, enrollment may emceed 100lT  since sote pupils ore beloc
PaeuIation  growth rate t77) - total - Conpound annual growth rates of mid-year                   or above the official school age.
popolation for 1950-60, 1960-70 snd 1970-75.                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratio  - sec. odary  school - Compoted en above; secondary
Population growth rate (2) - urban - Computed like growth rats of total                           education re-qires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                    provides general, -ocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data onang countries.                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age-; orrepondene  courses are generally excluded.
Urban  population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 leers  of schaoling  provided (first and  second  levels) - Tonal years af
definitions of urban areas may affect co-pacability of dats among countries.                    schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction mey be partially  at
completely exclsded.
Age structuoc (perent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational  onrollment (%  of secondary) - Vocational istitot ia clode
and retired  (i5 years and oner) ss percentages of mid-year popslatios.                         technical, isdustrial or other programs whish aperate independentl-   cr us
Age depend ocy ratio - Ratio of population unde- 15 and 65 and over to those                      departments of secondary institutions.
Of ages IS through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy  race (4) - Literate adult, (able to read and write) as per-
Economic  depeodensc  atio- Rstio of population under 15 and 65 and .ovr to I                     contage  of  total adult population aged 15  -parc and cner.
the labor force ic age group of 15-64 yesrr.
Fanilv  planning  - acceptors  (c=unatine, thou) - Cumulativ  nunber of acceptors              HLosing
of bi"ch-control doviccs unde racpicos of national family plannieg progroa                    Peruons per room  (urban) -    -oerage number of portons per room in -ocopied
since inception.                                                                                noo_etionalIdwellings iurban area; d-11iIcc   -Ic ldennprnc
Family  piancing  - users  (7. cc married  omes) - Percencages of married women of                strucotion ad unocpied parts.
child-hearing age (15-41 years) cbs use birth-control devices to all married                  Iccupied  dwelling  swithbut piped water (       07 - Occupied c--necciosaI doelLilof
wno,tcoicsamn 000 crnup n-ra. i                                                                          andb rural areas  itth/ot isside or onteide piped cater tacilities
as percentage of all octupied duellings.
ELloynenc                                                                                       uctesa  to electrIcity (2  of all dwellings) - Co-octional dwellin,s withi
Total labor farce  (thootand) -    sEc-omically active persoes, including armed                   electricity  in living quartera as percent of total dvollings In urban and
forces aed uneoployed but e-cluding hoaseeio-s, students, etc.; definitions                     rural areas.
in sarloas  oon trios are non conporable.                                                     Rural dwellings connected  to eleotrciit  ('1,1 - Computed us abo-e for tura-1
Labor forte in  ag-icoltoon (7) - ugricultural labor force (in farming, forscry,                  dwellings onlY.
hunting end fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
'onemloyed  (-/. of labor force) - nu ployed ace ousuily defined as persons who C.nsumption
are able and willing to caok  a job, not of a job ocn a gi     day, remained son              Radio  sceivers  (per thou pop) -  11  types  of  oeoeioros for radio broadcasts
of a  ob, and soeking vork far s spocified minimme period not exceeding one                     to general pc/slc pe- tbcuh attd of population; eccodes unlicensed recc- aros
keeh; may  ot be comparable bet ween cosetries doe to differeso definitIons                     in countries and in years when regist-ation of radio rots was fn effect;
of unomplaynd and source of data, eg., omployssent office  satistics, sample                    data far recent vears nay not be tomparable since most countrics aboltbed
surveys , compoulorv unemplouttxeet insurance.                                                  licoesing.
Passenger cars (onr thou eop) - Passengee oars co1mprise motor cars soaring
Inc     discribution - Perntacg  of pri-ate income (both bn ca.h and kind)                        Iota than eight persona; excludes ombolances, hearses and military
rece-ied by richest 57., richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorost 40% of house-                    -ehicles.
bolds.                                                                                        Electricity (kbh/yr  ner cap) - A.nnal consumption of industrial. cononeotial,
public and prioes  eIectricity in kilowatt hours per .spita, gonerally
Distributien  of  land  ownership - Percentages of land owsed by wealthiest 10%                   based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but allow-
and po-rest 157. of land owners,                                                                ing for imports and exporta af electricity.
Newsprint (akgvr/yr p cap) - Per sapir annual cocsomption in kilograst
Iealcb  and  Rucritn                                                                              estisated  from domestic production plus  Ier imparts of newsprint.
Population  Per  Physician - Populotion divided by number of practicing
physiciaes qualified from a medical school at uni-eosicy level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
H8XICO - IWC   2 WF)U T DATA SH,R
.9 Ama_                      Pralaisanc  Rst0ra          Prolected                       Grouth aRts                As 7 of GDY
1965        3975  1g76 1 977       1978                                1982      1966170  -1971/7        1976/82 1965        1975      1982
NATIONAL ACOWTS                                                   Constant 1972 Prices. U84 millions
Gros Dostic Product                      26,472.0   36.952.0   48,680.0   49,683.0   50,570.6   53,938.9   72,275.7           6.9         5.7         5.8      99.6    99.1    97.2
Gaios ftc. Te.-  of Trade                   904.0       104.0      424.0       482.6       328.6       418.5    2,075.3   -35.1          32.5        25.5       3.4      0.9      2.8
Gross Doatic Inca                        26,576.0   37,056.0   49,104.0   50,165.6   50,899.2   54,357.4   74,351.0           6.9         5.8         6.1    100.0   100.0   100.0
Inports (ioclading IFS)                   2,768.0    3,928.0    5,648.0    5,339.0    4,549.4    5,269.6         7,118.3      7.3         7.5         3.4      10.4    11.3       9.6
Exports (iport capacity)                  2,624.0    3,152.0    3,960.0    4,470.5    4,761.2    5,223.6    9,057.9           3.7         4.7        12.6       9.9      8.1    12.2
Resource GaP                                54.0        776.0    1,688.0       868.5     - 211.8        45.9   -1,939.6    40.1          16.8         -         0.5      3.4    - 2.6
Con  ption                               21,704.0   30,288.0   39,752.0   39,476.4   39,799.0   41,643.5   54,421.4           6.9         5.6         4.6      81.7    80.9    73.2
Tuvectent                                 5,016.0    7,544.0   11,040.0   11,557.7   10,888.4    12,759.8   17,989.9          8.5         7.9         7.2      18.9    22.5    24.2
Grosn D-etic Sevins                       4,872.0    6,768.0     9,352.0   10,689.2   11,100.2    12,713.8   19,929.5         6.8         6.7        11.4      18.3    19.1    26.8
Gross Ntienl S-aiogS                     4,520.0    6.312,0     8,296.0    9,385.8    9,701.7   11,258.4   18,501.0          6.9         5.6        12.1      17.0    16.9    24.9
TRADe ri GOODS AND NUS                                                Current Prices. U80 Millions                                                                  As . of Total
IIIPOtTS. TOTAL                            2,073.2    3,416.9    8,636.7    8,135.1    7,512.2        9,410.9   16,216.0    10.5          20.4         9.4    100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                                          5.9        74.6      443.0       148.2       223.4       220.7       302.3    66.1         42.8        -5.3       0.3      5.1      1.9
Petrole  cod Products                        26.2        54.2       291.1      291.3       358.0       415.2        -        15.7        40.0         -         1.3      3.4      -
Other Gooda                               1,527.5    2,223.4    5,879.7    5,631.7    4,855.3        6,400.0   11,596.1       7.8        21.5        10.2      73.7    68.1    71.4
-N-Factor Servicea                          513.6    1,064.7      2,022.9    2,063.7     2,075.5     2,375.0    4,327.6    15.7          13.7        11.5      24.8    23.4      26.7
EXPORTS, TOTAL                             1,.964.6    2.745.5    6,0dl.7    6.811.8    7.862,1    9.328.8   20,634.6           6.9        17.2        19.1    100.0   100,0    100.0
Selected Agricultural Goods -/              642.4       711.6      954.2    1,202.8    1,785.6    1,503.5        2,200.2      2.1         6.0        12.7      32.7    15.7    10.7
Petrole-  ond Pmducts                       40.1        38.4      460.1       567.5       835.4    1,697.5      7,002.1    -0.9         64.3        47.5       2.0      7.6    33.9
SGlected Minerala                           189.7       244.3      457.6       456.7       509.6       593.4    1,050.1       5.2        13.4        12.6       9.7      7.5      5.1
Maoofactorea                                132.5       326.9    1,069.3      1,193.0    1,410.7     1,752.1    4,035.6    19.8          26.8        20.9       6.7     17.6    19.6
Other Coeds                                 153.9        26.6       63.3        46.5        52.4        61.2       117.9   -29.6         18.9         9.3       7.8      1.0      0.6
Noc-Foctor Services                         806.0    1,397.7    3,077.2    3,345.3    3,268.4    3,731.1    6,228.7          11.6        17.1        10.6      41.0    50.6    30.2
TRFAE INDICES                                                              A-erae 1972 - 100
Eaport Price lodac                           78.0        90.0       172.1      170.8       177.4       194.1       295.5      2.9        13.8         8.0       -
I.port Price Indeo                           75.0        87.0      153.6       152.4       165.1       178.6       227.8      3.0        12.0         5.8
Ter  of Trade                               104.0       103.4       112.0       112.1      107.4       108.7       129.7    - 0.1         1.6         2.1       -       __       __
VALUE AWED BY SECTrO                                               Constant 1972 Prices. US4 Million
Pricr,y                                   5,082.6    6,244.9      6,183.4    6,260.1    6,725.9      7,443.6    9,612.7       4.2        -0.2         6.5      19.2    12.7    13.3
Secoadory                                 6,988.6   10,790.0    14,849.8   15,103.6   15,322.9   16,451.3   23,923.2          9.1         6.6         7.1      26.4    30.5    33.1
Tortiary                                 14,400.8   19,917.1   27,654.8   28,319.3   28,521.8   30,044.0   38,739.8           6.7         6.8         4.9      54.4    56.8    53.6
Total (GDP)                              26,472.0   36,952.0    48,688.0   49,683.0   50,570.6   53,938.9   72,275.7          6.9         5.7         5.8    100.0   100.0   100.0
CONSOLIDATED POLIC SECTOR YItKNCSS                                 Constant 1972 Prices. US0 Million.                                                                As 7 of GDY
Current Reroipto                          3,042.0    4,942.6    7,346.3       8,325.2    7,853.1     9,410.3   17,315.4    10.2           8.3        11.0      11.4    15.0    23.3
Curreot ERpeditu.ree                      2,329.0    3,156.4    6,222.4       6,902.5    6,643.8    7,416.7   10,652.0        6.3        14.5         6.4       8.8    12.7    14.3
Public S-aingR                              713.4    1,786.2      1,124.0     1,332.7    1,209.3    2,260.9    6,643.6    20.1           -8.9        25.9       2.7      2.3      9.0
R-oorc..  for 1oveot-eet                    776.3    1,864.0    1,193.7       1,427.5    1,259.4    2,315.2    6,736.3    19.2           -8.5        24.8       2.9      2.4      9.1
love tmeot                                1,741.5    2,400.5    4,485.8      48,43.7    4,425.0    5,606.0    7,88003         6.6        13.3         7.2       6.6     9.1      10.6
Deficit (cet)                              -965.2      -536.5   -3,292.1    -3,416.2   -3,165.8   -3,290.8   -1,144.0   -11.1            43.7      -13.5      -3.6    -6.7       -1.5
ALLOCATION OF C8ONGLIDATED                                                                                                                                          As 7. of Tot.1
PUBLIC S0COR EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                       1970    1975     12
Agriocitoro                                 _           843.2    3,245.5        -           _           _           _         _           .           -        8.8    15.9
I.d..try                                    -         3,500.3    6,880.3        -           _           -           -         -                       -        36.3    32.4
Social Welfare                              -         2,384.1    4,269.6        _           -           -           -         -           -          -        24.7    21.0
Teco.port and C-eeCctionos                  -         1,136.9     2,034.6        -          _           _           _         _           _           -        11.8    10.0
G-oeral AdA.ioitrotioo and Othere           -         1,772.3    4,202.4        -           -           -           -         -           -           -        18.4    20.7
Totl                                       -         9,637.2   20,332.6         -          _-                      - _         _         .                   100.0   100.0      -
SELECrED INDICATORS                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Period A-erace
SELPCESE ONOICATORS                                                                                                                                     1966/70     1971715    1976/02
ICOR                                         2.91        2.89       4.99       11.10       13.02        3.23        3.41      -           _             2.90        3.61       5.76
Import Elasticity                            0.75        1.51     - 0.52      - 2.68       -8.28        2.38        1.16      -           -             0.31        0.96      -0.64
Mer,iclU  ScirOo e   tio                    -0.16      - 0.24        0.11        1.34       0.50        0.46        0.35      -           -             0.19        0.10       0.53
LABOR FORCE AND OUTFUT PER (RER                                                                            Val.e Added ore Worker (1972 oricee.
In Million      As  of Total    19017                                         of Avetate
19tiO    17      P9       1970   2EovtIBet          1960       1970        1960       1970      Grosth Rate
Agriculture                                5.4      5.1    50.5       39.2     -0.6          608.8      939,9        34.7        33.0        4.4
Ind-otry                                   2.1      3.0    19.6      23.1       3.6        2,468.9   4,134.9        140.6       145.0        5.3
Service,                                   3.2      4.9    29.9      37.7       4.4        3,222.8   4,044.8        183.6       142.0        2.3
Total          ,                          10.7    13.0   10D.0    100.0          2.0       1,755.6   2,847.6        100.0       100.0         5.0
... Not pplicable or avacilhbl
1/ Includes ug.ar



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYM Sh. MLTRINAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual               Preliminary Estimates                              Projections
1970           1975             1976         1977                   1978           1980            1982
SUMMARY bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                     2,745.4        6,081.5          6,811.8      7,862.1                9,328.8       13,879.9       20,634.6
Imports (including NFS)                     3,416.9        8,636.6          8,135.1      7,512.2                9,458.7       12,256.1       16,271.5
Resource Balan7                            - 671.5       -2,555.1         -1,323.4        349.8                - 129.9        1,623.8       4,363.1
Interest, net -                             - 307.0       -1,266.5         -1,872.0    -2,126.5               -2,350.9        -2,746.6       -2,713.4
Direct Investment Income                    - 267.5       -  657.5         -  636.6    -  739.8                 - 856.4       -1,135.8       -1,486.2
Workers  Remittances                          122.7           174.6           193.0         207.5                 224.1           257.7         295.1
Current Transfers, net                         55.3           123.4           146.9         157.1                 171.6          204.9          245.0
Current Account Balance                    -1,068.0       -4,181.2         -3,491.9    -2,151.7                -2,941.3       -1,795.8          703.8
Private Direct Investment                     322.8           748.8           688.0         688.0                 777.4          983.9        1,234.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net           258.6        3,565.8          4,906.9      3,075.1                2,467.0       -  213.4       -1,588.5
(Disbursements)                            (821.3)      (4,418.6)       (6,123.3)   (5,551.1)               (5,996.2)       (4,748.8)    (3,355.2)
(Repayments)                             (-562.7)        (-852.8)      (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)              (-3,529.2)    (-4,962.2    (-4,943.8)
9ther Capital                                 588.7           31.7         -3,043.0      - 861.4                   21.9        1,233.3        - 133.3
(Public Short Term)                        (139.6)        (842.8)          (839.8)        -                      -           (-200.0)      (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                   (449.1)        (-811.1)       (3,882.8)    (-861.4)                  (21.9)       (1,433.3)         (66.7)
Change in Reserves (- - increase)            -102.1         -165.1            940.0    -  750.0                  -325.1         -207.5       -  373.6
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                      844.1         4,305.7         6,560.5       5,356.8
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                          146.8          310.0            725.0        187.0                   -              -              -
IDA
Other Multilateral                            112.3          121.8            355.1        280.0                   -              -               -
Governments                                    81.0           316.8           118.6         250.0                   -             -               -
Suppliers                                      69.7          116.7            201.9        150.0                   -              -              -
Banks and Financial Institutions              434.4        3,300.1          4,454.8      3,889.8                   -              -               -
Bonds                                          -             140.3            707.5        600.0                   -              -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed         3,226.9       11,095.9         16,002.9    19,078.0                                 Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                on Dec. 31. 1977
Interest on Public Debt                     - 216.9        - 810.5         -1,069.9    -1,237.0
Repayment on Public Debt                    - 474.7        - 852.8         -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                     Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                    - 224.3        - 193.3         -  325.7    -  367.7
Total Debt Service (net)                    - 915.9       -1,856.6         -2,612.0    -4,080.7                Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (%) -                                                                                     Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                      24.0           26.6             32.6         46.0
b.  Total Debt ServIce                       31.8           29.7             37.3         50.6               IBRD                  1,456.8        7.6
c.  Total Debt Service and                                                                                   IDB                     772.7        4.0
Direct Investment Income               44.8            40.2            46.4          59.7              Governments             853.5        4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                   Suppliers               320.8        1.7
a.  Interest as % of prior                                                                                   Bonds                1,821.6         9.6
year's D.O. and D.                       7.4           10.8              9.6          7.7               Other Financial
b.  Amortization as 7. of prior                                                                               Institutions       13,852.6        72.6
year's D.O. and D.                     16.3            11.3            11.0          15.5              Total                19,078.0      100.0
IBRD Exposure                                                                                                                      19080___
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as 7, of                  18.0           10.1              7.7          7.6
Public D.O. and D.
b. IBRD Debt Service as 7. of
Public Debt Service                       7.8            7.0              5.8          4.2
-DA Exposure                                    -               -
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1978)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower                Purpose       Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                       1,486.4
793   1972   NAFINSA                       Tourism               22.0        0.6
909   1973   NAFINSA                       Water Supply          90.0       50.6
968   1974   NAFINSA                       Roads                 90.0       61.1
969   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation            77.0       17.1
970   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation            47.0       43.6
1022   1974   NAFINSA                       Airports              25.0       14.5
1053   1974   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development        50.0       45.6
1110   1975   NAFINSA                        Integrated Rural
Development       110.0       60.5
1111   1975   NAFINSA                       Irrigation            50.0       50.0
1112   1975   FERTIMEX and NAFINSA          Industry              50.0       23.4
1186   1975   Banco Nacional de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S. A.             Water Supply          40.0       38.7
1205   1976   NAFINSA                       Industry              50.0       33.7
1217   1976   NAFINSA                       Agricultural and
Livestock Credit 125.0        48.1
1232   1976   Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA      Railways             100.0       87.7
1420   1977   NAFINSA                       Tourism               42.0       42.0
1462   1977   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       120.0      120.0
1524   1978   NAFINSA                       Tourism               50.0       50.0
TOTAL                                           2,624.4      787.2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              454.7
Total now outstanding                           2,169.7
Amount sold                        92.3
of which has been repaid           64.8            27.5
Total now held by Bank 1/                       2,142.2
Total Undis'bursed                                           787.2
1/     Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1978)
Fiscal                                                              US$ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8      --      0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. I/       Twist Drills               0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.         Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/         Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                 Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --     0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining              1.5      --     1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                    12.0      --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                    Pulp and Paper              2/       2/      2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz           Cement                    10.5      --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975       Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
Total Gross Commitments                             42.5    27.0   69.5
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         16.3    22.0   38.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/                26.2      5.0   31.2
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold
redeemed or repaid.
2/ US$25,000
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31. 1978.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of
Zihuatanejo are complete. The international airport at
Zihuatanejo is now being served by 35 flights a week from
Mexico City. A new bilateral air agreement between Mexico
and the US was signed in January 1978 that will allow Mexican
and US air carriers to serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US
cities. Three hotels with 555 rooms will open by May 1978,
and an additional 1,500 rooms are under construction. The
only category of the loan not yet fully disbursed relates
to the training component (about US$500,000). To use these
funds, the Mexican authorities are preparing a proposal for
additional training facilities at La Paz (Baja California).
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing DaLte: December 31, 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by end of 1978. The Government has
proposed that savings in carrying out some components of the
projects be applied to finance new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. The Government is carrying
out a revision of the bulk water rate, on confirmation of
which a recommendation on changes in the project description
will be submitted to Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. Substantial delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations. Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, the scope of the project was reduced
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
thea  dnot. iur?ort  0 KerE teFna balanced evaluation of strengths and
w   neossneso 10  0j           



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 km) to ten roads plus
part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs. Overall progress is esti-
mated at about 31 percent and completion is now expected for
late 1980 or about two and a half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were
irrigated in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The
technical assistance program and the land settlement
program are proceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation
has been greater than estimated at the time of appraisal
and project costs have risen to about US$371 million
equivalent from the original estimate of US$212 million.
A recent analysis of the project indicates that the rate
of return remains satisfactory, although project costs have
risen, due to rapid increases in commodity prices over the
same period. The Government's request for a supplementary
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is, however, accelerating as
works for the major storage dam have now begun. About 15 percent
of project works are complete and water is being supplied to
25,000 ha of the 100,000 ha to be served by the project. Total
project costs have risen from US$146 million to US$341 million
because of higher inflation than projected at the time of
appraisal and changes in the volume of physical works. The
Government's request for a supplementary loan is under consid-
eration.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Cif these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has
decided to c:onstruct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. Works in all the six airports are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is presently being given priority attention. Budget levels are
under review and will likely be raised. While, as a whole, the
project remains behind the original implementation schedule,
some elements, most notably the extension service, are ahead of
schedule. The project would likely be completed two year aftgr
the original closing date.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking aLction to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding development credit,
agricultural extension, and farmer organization components are
being implemented. The new PIDER management is giving priority
to ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of earlier
PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to improve
cost recovery, investment analysis and programming, monitoring,
and rural iLndustries.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been
reduced from $150 million to $50 million and would be applied
to the first phase of the project. The first phase works would
be implemented over four years. Contracts for priority works
are being placed and studies for the remaining works in the
reduced project are in progress. A technical assistance
component of the project is under implementation.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The devaluation of the peso in September 1976 affected the
project cost and its implementation schedule. Preliminary
estimates indicate a capital cost increase of 36 percent
in pesos and a delay of 7 to 8 months in implementation.
The Bajio Urea Plant will be completed in June 1978, the
Pajaritos Urea Plant in June 1979 and the Parathion Plant
in mid-1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities, where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will be
signed by the end of the year with local authorities for four
additional subprojects which would complete commitment of the
loan.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31. 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing for industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of March 15, 1978, 80 percent of the loan had
been committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30. 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectivene!ss Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
Orders have been placed for rails, car components, track
and workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976,
budgetary cuts were made as part of a program to stabilize the
economy. Rail traffic growth also declined and the railway has
proposed substantial rephasing of its investment plan and
procurement schedule, details of which are being works out.
The execut:ion period of the project will need to be extend by
about two years. Operational and technical improvements of the
railway continue, though they have not yet been reflected in
the financial performance of the railway on account of inadequate
tariff increases.
Ln No. 1420    Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of July 5,
1977; Loan not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The establishment of a land trust fund in the project area of
San Jose del Cabo, a condition of loan effectiveness, is
expected shortly. Implementation of the project has already
started and is on schedule. A project unit in Mexico City and
adequately staffed field offices have been established.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977;\ Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
ImplementaLtion is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project: $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
MEXICO - THIRD INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about six months
(b) Project prepared by: Banco de Mexico staff (FONEI)
(c) First Preparation Mission: July 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1977
(e) Negotiations completed in: April 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) that interest rates on subloans would be set at two percentage points
above the average borrowing rate of financieras and would be adjustable
every six months (para. 47);
(b) to ensure a reasonable diversification of Bank resources, no more
than US$5 million of the proceeds of the loan would normally be
on-lent to a single subproject (para. 48);
(c) that the cumulative amount of Bank financing provided for all sub-
projects involving the export of services would not exceed US$10 million
(para. 49);
(d) the Bank would review all service export subprojects until satisfactory
criteria has been evolved to evaluate them and all industrial goods
subprojects involving Bank resources of more than US$1.5 million
(paras. 49 and 50).



