Document of
The World Bank                                        1 v
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3313-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
ASHUGANJ THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On January 11, 1982, the exchange rate was set at Tk 38.3720
buying and Tk 38.4720 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate
movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross rate is
subject to change. In recent months this rate has fluctuated between
Tk 22-22 per US dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have
been used:
US$           = Tk 18.0
Tk 1          = US$ 0.0556
Tk 1 million  = US$ 55,556
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                 =    39.37 inches (in)
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =    1.31 cubic yard (cu yd)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)             0.028 cubic meters (cu m)
i kilogram (kg)             =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 kilo calorie (kcal)       =    3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 kilogram standard coal
equivalent (kg ce)        =    7,000 kilocalories (kcal)
1 kilovolt (kV)                  1,000 volts (v)
1 megawattt (MW)            =    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)            1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -     Asian Development Bank
BPDB       -     Bangladesh Power Development Board
GOB        -     Government of Bangladesh
IDA        -     International Development Association
KfW        -     Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
OPEC       -     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PBS        -     Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electricity Society)
REB        -     Rural Electrification Board
UNDP       -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -     United States Agency for International Development
BPDB'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
ASHUGANJ THERMAL POWER PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:       Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB).
Amount:            SDR 82.7 million (US$92.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard.
Relending Terms:  GOB would on-lend the entire proceeds of the credit to the
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) for a period of
25 years, including 5 years of grace, at 11.5% per annum.
BPDB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Purpose:           The project would support BPDB's efforts to expand its
existing generating and transmission facilities to help
meet Bangladesh's demand for power from 1985/86 till 1990;
contribute to foreign exchange savings through the sub-
stitution of power generated with domestic natural gas in
place of imported fuel; and address a number of institu-
tional issues which are critical for the long-term effi-
cient development.of the power sector. The project would
include: the expansion of the existing steam power plant
at Ashuganj through the addition of two new steam gas-fired
units of 150 MW each, including boilers and ancillary
electrical and mechanical equipment; the construction of a
230 kV double circuit 48 km transmission line between
Ashuganj and Ghorasal, including a 230/132 kV substation;
and the financing of a simulator to train BPDB's staff in
the operation of steam power plants.
Project Risks:    The project would face no major risks.  Due to the limited
local construction capability in Bangladesh and BPDB's
cumbersome administrative procedures, some delay may be
incurred in project implementation, which could result in
cost overruns. However, it is expected that major civil
works would be undertaken by an international contractor
while only minor civil works would be undertaken by local
contractors; possible delays would be kept to a minimum
through careful coordination and supervision during con-
struction, in which the consultants would play a major
role. The appointment of a Project Manager to be respon-
sible for implementing the project should also help mini-
mize delays due to BPDB'S administrative procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



-ii-
Estimated
Project Cost:                                       Local   Foreign  Total
US$ million equivalent
Power Plant
Civil Works                     26.6    10.9    37.5
Boilers                          4.0    36.5    40.5
Turbo-alternator Units           4.4    59.8    64.2
Cooling Water System             0.4     4.6      5.0
Water Treatment                  0.5      1.6      2.1
Auxiliary Equipment              0.6      5.5      6.1
Electrical Works                15.4    21.6    37.0
Instrumentation and              2.5     8.8    11.3
Control
Total Before Taxes           54.4   149.3   203.7
Duties and Taxes                11.8       -     11.8
TOTAL POWER PLANT              66.2   149.3   215.5
Training Simulator
Before Taxes                     0.2     2.2      2.4
Duties and Taxes                 0.2       -      0.2
TOTAL TRAINING SIMULATOR           0.4      2.2      2.6
230 kV Transmission
Including 230/132 kV
Substation
Before Taxes                    3.7     5.2      8.9
Duties and Taxes                0.4       -      0.4
TOTAL TRANSMISSION                 4.1      5.2      9.3
Subtotal                     70.7   156.7   227.4
Physical Contingencies           4.5    15.1    19.6
Price Contingencies             20.3    46.1    66.4
Total                        95.5   217.9   313.4
Consultants' Services              1.8    10.2    12.0
Administration                     3.0       -       3.0
Total Project Cost               100.3   228.1   328.4
Interest During Construction   44.4          -     44.4
Total Financing Required         144.7   228.1   372.8



-iii-
Financing Plan:                      Local           Foreign       Total
----------US$ million----------
IDA                 5.3            86.7         92.0
OPEC/Kuwait Fund  22.4             42.6         65.0
ADB                 5.0            25.6         30.6
FRG                  -             48.0 /a      48.0
GOB                67.6              -          67.6
Total           100.3           202.9        303.2
Estimated
Disbursement:       1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
------------------US$ million------------------
Annual          6.5      27.5       26.0       20.0       12.0
Cumulative      6.5      34.0       60.0       80.0       92.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           About 13%
Appraisal Report:    Bangladesh: Ashuganj Thermal Power Project,
Report No. 3719c-BD, dated May 12, 1982.
Maps:                 IBRD 14182R1
IBRD 16000
/a  Approximate US$ equivalent of proposed FRG grant of D}{ 115 million based
on fixed price quotations from German suppliers and valid till November
1983. This compares to a base cost estimate of US$47.50 million, or
US$73.15 million including contingencies as presented in the Staff
Appraisal Report.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
ASHUGANJ THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 82.7 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$92.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help
finance an Ashuganj Thermal Power Project. The proceeds of the proposed
credit would be on-lent to the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB),
a wholly state-owned corporation, at an interest rate of 11.5% p.a. for a
period of 25 years, including 5 years of grace. BPDB would bear the foreign
exchange risk. In addition to the proposed IDA credit, the proposed project
would be financed on a parallel basis by: the Kuwait Fund with a loan of $35
million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a service
charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum; the OPEC Fund with a loan of $30.0 million for
a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a service charge of
3/4 of 1%; the Asian Development Bank (ADB) with a loan of $30.6 million for
a period of 40 years, including 10 years of grace, with a service charge of
1%; the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) with a grant of DM 115 (about US$48
million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3,
1982) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the Report
on the Chittagong Port Project (Report No. P-3286-BD), dated April 26,
1982



- 2 -
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation during the second half of the past decade
was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81. Favorable
weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs helped to increase
rice production.by 9% to a record level of 13.7 million tons and wheat
production by 33% to 1.1 million tons. As output in industrial and services
sectors also increased substantially over their FY80 levels, GDP at market
prices increased by about 7% in real terms. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments in production, Bangladesh experienced growing financial difficulties
during FY81. Sharply higher petroleum prices, declining export prices for
jute goods and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities below the Govern-
ment's expectations affected the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid
receipts, an unanticipated shortfall in debt service payments from public
enterprises, and substantial expenditures on food procurements which were
necessary in order to maintain farmgate prices in a record crop year also
affected the budget; and a budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to
about 2 1/2% of GNP at market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit
ceilings for June 1981 established in the context of the EFF arrangement with
the IMF were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was
suspended. The Fund is currently reviewing the situation in the light of the
country's financial and balance of payment prospects.
The Balance of Payments
6.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid; export earnings are
currently less than 30% of the import bill. A sharp decline in export prices
of raw jute and jute goods (which account for two-thirds of total export
earnings) and of major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish
products, led to a 2% decline in export earnings in FY81, although the volume



of exports increased by 10%. Imports, on the other hand, increased by 6% in
value terms as a result of increased prices of crude petroleum and petroleum
products and of other imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by
22% in FY81 mainly as a result of higher import prices and the sharp decline
in export prices noted earlier.
7.       The current account deficit--US$1.43 billion in FY81--has been  on--
siderably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth of
workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the second
most important source of foreign exchange earnings.  The payments gap was
largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion, close to
half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements increased
substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity
as well as a build up in the project pipeline, there was, as noted earlier, a
crucial shortfall in commodity aid availabilities and new commitments.
Bangladesh also made considerable use of IMF resources, including initial
drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF arrangement which became effective in
December 1980 and which was recently suspended.
8.       The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  Export
earnings are expected to decline sharply this year, due to depressed prices
for jute, and terms of trade to decline further by 15%. Aid inflows are
expected to be only about 5% more in nominal terms than in FY81. Given the
tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below FY81
levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the manufacturing sector. Gross reserves may have to be run-
down by about US$100 million by the end of FY82 to around US$150 million, the
equivalent of three weeks imports; and in addition, net short-term borrowing
of about US$170 million will be required to bridge the external financing gap
for FY82.
9.       Debt service payments on medium and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.



-4-
Public Finance
10.     Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79
deteriorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for invest-
ments in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major
public sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with these difficul-
ties, although the Government cut back the development budget by about 13%,
the deficit for FY81 substantially exceeded revised forecasts (see above).
The budgetary situation is expected to continue to be tight in FY82 as the
severe balance of payments situation will have a substantial impact on tax
revenues. In order to contain the budget deficit to manageable proportions,
the Government has reduced the local currency component of the development
budget by 15% below the budgeted level.
11.     The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, following the
depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to eliminate
the subsidy on this account.
12.     Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 14.9%
in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 6%. However, as a
result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82 inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at an annual rate of about 18%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
13.     The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase
to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with
a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to unity by 1990; (iii)
progress towards mass literacy through free universal primary education; and
(iv) priority to energy development, particularly through accelerated
exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.



- 5 -
14.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its
achievement will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient resour-
ces to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to
play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of
foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and
training, and appropriate producer incentives.
15.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
16.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age by
1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assisting
GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.
17.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a



-6 -
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation. 1/
18.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.1 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of March 31, 1982, 58 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1,804.67 million; of these, US$765 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three invest-
ments (for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a
leather factory) have been approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(19 of the 46 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interferring
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
IDA plans to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages of
generation capacity or distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the Bank's
1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from
three fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an
*          extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a portion of
local currency expenditures in certain priority areas such as energy, educa-
tion, agriculture and rural development, and family planning.
25.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.



- 8 -
PART III - ENERGY AND THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Consumption
26.     Annual energy consumption in Bangladesh has been estimated at about
10.5 million tons standard coal equivalent I/ in 1979. More than 70% of the
country's energy requirements are met from traditional, non-commercial sour-
ces such as firewood, and vegetable and animal wastes; commercial energy
constitutes the remainder. Besides local natural gas and very limited hydro
power potential, imported crude oil and petroleum products are the main
commercial energy sources. In 1980 about 63% of commercial energy use was
accounted for by imported oil, 24% by natural gas, 11% by imported coal, and
2% by hydro-electric power. Bangladesh's per capita consumption of commer-
cial energy is the eighth lowest in the world, amounting to only 41 kg ce in
1979. Total energy consumption per capita in Bangladesh including tradi-
tional fuels, amounted to some 150 kg ce in 1979. Even at present low levels
of consumption, oil imports absorb about 60% of Bangladesh's export earnings.
Energy Resources and Energy Balance
27.     Except for the northern hills of Chittagong, Bangladesh is a flat
deltaic country with limited hydropotential. The Karnafuli River has been
harnessed at Kaptai with an installed capacity of 80 MW and an additional
50 MW under construction, which is expected to be commissioned in 1983. Two
additional units of 50 MW each are planned for 1986/7. An overall survey of
the country's hydro potential has yet to be undertaken. While some addi-
tional potential may be identified it is likely to be limited.
28.     Natural gas is the main known commercial energy resource of
Bangladesh. There are ten fields, all located in the eastern part of the
country (east of the Brahmaputra/Jamuna River), with aggregate reserves of
about 260 billion cu m. 2/ Although preliminary exploration indicates that
natural gas may be found in the west zone, no commercial quantities of gas
have so far been identified. At an assumed annual consumption growth rate of
10%, the gas reserves will last for some 33 years, even if no new deposits
are found. By 1990, natural gas is expected to provide about 52% of commer-
cial energy requirements, as compared to about 24% in 1980.
1/ 1 kilogram standard coal equivalent (kg ce) = 7,000 kilocalories.
2/ An additional offshore field was discovered in 1977, but its development
is not currently being contemplated.



- 9 -
29.     Coal deposits exist near Jaipurhat, but the depth of these deposits
and technical extraction difficulties make their utilization at the present
time uneconomical. Explorative activities for oil have been going on for
more than 15 years but have so far resulted only in gas discoveries.
Power Sector
Institutions
30.     The principal institutions responsible for policy matters in the
power sector are: (i) the Planning Commission which coordinates development
efforts within the sector with those of other sectors and is responsible for
sanctioning all schemes costing more than Tk5 million, and (ii) the Ministry
Energy and Mineral Resources which supervises the sector and to which the
power generating and distributing institutions are accountable.
31.     The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was established in
1972, as a statutory Government corporation, to carry out nationwide respon-
sibilities of generation, transmission and distribution of electric power
besides the responsibility of system planning and development. BPDB was the
sole authority responsible for these functions until 1977, when the Rural
Electrification Board (REB) was created to take over from BPDB the distribu-
tion of electricity in rural areas. At present, all consumers are supplied
directly by BPDB except for those areas in which new rural electrification
schemes have been completed by REB.
Existing facilities
32.     Bangladesh is divided into two zones - east and west - by the Brah-
maputra/Jamuna river basin. The two separate (eastern and western) power
systems will be unified in a nationwide grid after the completion of the 230
kV east-west interconnection by FY83. For the time being, and due to the
unequal distribution of energy resources in the country, all power plants
in the west zone are using imported oil while most of the power generation
in the east zone is based on indigenous natural gas and hydro power. In
FY1980/81, BPDB's installed capacity (including isolated systems) totalled
776 MW: 519 MW (67%) in the east zone; and 257 MW (33%) in the west zone.
In addition, there is some 188 MW of captive power owned by different
industries, among which the largest are the steam stations at the paper mills
in Khulna (24 MW) and Chittagong (28.5 MW), the steam station at the
Fenchuganj (36 MW) fertilizer plant, the combustion turbine station at the
fertilizer plant in Ghorasal (110 MW), and a combustion turbine station with
two 15 MW units at the new fertilizer plant in Ashuganj.
33.     In 1980, the overall power system included some 1,345 km of 132 kV
transmission lines, of which about 485 km are double circuit, 5,020 km of
66 and 33 kV sub-transmission lines and 14,280 km of 11 kV and low voltage



- 10 -
distribution lines. A new adequately equipped dispatch center was installed
at Siddhirganj in 1980 to meet the future requirements of the interconnected
system.
34.     During FY79/80 and FY80/81, REB, with assistance from USAID, has
completed the construction of 1,030 km of 11 kV and low voltage distribution
lines for five Palli Bidyut Samity (PBS) cooperative areas which have been
energized and initially supply about 6,500 rural consumers.
Access to Service and Status of Supply
35.     Total energy generated by BPDB's power plants in FY1979/80 was 2,317
GWh: 1,729 GWh (75%) in the east zone; and 588 GWh (25%) in the west zone.
At the end of FY1979/80, the total number of consumers supplied by BPDB
reached some 522,000, still very low in relation to total population. Only
1,596 out of a total number of 65,000 villages have been electrified which
indicates that about 98% of the population in rural areas (around 60 million)
do not have access to electricity service. Because of this, the per capita
consumption of electricity was only 16 kWh in 1979/80.
36.     Of the installed capacity of 776 MW in 1980, only about 626 MW (81%)
was actually available at peak periods (426 MW in the east zone and 200 MW in
the west zone). This compares with a maximum demand in 1980 of 338 MW in the
east zone and 124 MW in the west zone. Although the installed capacity in
the west zone was further increased in 1980 by 76 MW of gas turbines which
are operated as base load units, the available capacity in the west zone is
still critically low with a margin of available capacity of only about 36 MW
(less largest unit out). Two main factors are expected to improve capacity
availability in both zones, namely: the completion of the east-west inter-
connection which will eliminate the need to operate combustion turbines as
base-load generating units; and the implementation of the BPDB power stations
rehabilitation program which was recommended in a study developed in 1980
with ADB finance and for which GOB has already made arrangements to secure
the required finance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
37.     At present, the power system suffers from frequent power supply
outages and voltage fluctuations as well as low and fluctuating frequency.
One main reason for unreliability of supply, in addition to insufficiency
of base load generating capacity in the west zone, is the inadequacy of
BPDB's distribution facilities, especially in major urban areas, where lines
are too long and overloaded and there is a great need for additional substa-
tion capacity. To improve this situation, the distribution networks in major
urban areas are being rehabilitated and extended with assistance from exter-
nal donors including: the IDA/OPEC (Greater Khulna Power Distribution
Project, Credit 934-BD), the Asian Development Bank (Greater Chittagong Power
Distribution Project) and the United Kingdom (Greater Dacca Power Distribu-
tion Project).



- 11 -
38.     Another cause of the unsatisfactory supply is the lack of regular
preventive maintenance by BPDB, particularly for generating facilities,
stemming from a lack of spare parts and materials as well as the dearth of
trained personnel. To acquire needed spares in adequate supply, BPDB would
need to improve its financial viability so as to be able to finance its
import needs and GOB needs to provide the required foreign exchange resour-
ces.  The problem of manpower can be solved only by developing adequate
training facilities and training large numbers of personnel, not only for
BPDB's own needs but to compensate for emigration to lucrative positions in
the Middle East countries and elsewhere. This situation is expected to be
improved through the ongoing system rehabilitation program, an ADB-financed
training program, and the training program under the Greater Khulna Power
Distribution project (see paragraph 54 below).
Pattern of Consumption and Demand Forecast
39.     The consumption of electricity increased between 1976 and 1981 at an
average annual rate of about 13.2%; the average annual rate was 11.2% in the
east zone and 20.8 % in the west zone. The annual growth, which was 13.3% in
1979, declined to only 3.9% in FY1980 due to supply constraints; meanwhile,
preliminary figures for FY1981 indicate a growth of about 21%.
40.     BPDB has based its power demand projections on the extrapolation of
recent historical trends, adjusted to take account of specific development
projects in the various sectors of the economy. For the period 1980-1990,
sales of electricity are expected to increase from around 1,462 GWh to about
6,318 GWh, at an annual average rate of 15.8%. Under these assumptions by
FY1986 there would be no margin of generating capacity (less largest unit
out) in excess of projected maximum demand without the new investment
proposed under the project. Assuming that by 1990 the share of REB/PBS
Cooperatives would be about 16% of BPDB's total sales and the total rural
consumption would be about 19%, including direct BPDB's supply in the rural
areas, compared to around 2% in 1980, the pattern of electricity consumption
in 1990 would be around: agriculture (6.4%), industry (62.1%), commercial
(12.5%), domestic (18.0%) and others (1.0%).
BPDB's Development Program
41.     BPDB's power development program is based on a UNDP-financed,
ADB-administered Energy Study, which was carried out in 1975/76, and on
requirements for system expansion to meet the country's expected demand for
power till 1990. It consists of a number of ongoing projects which include:
an additional hydroelectric unit at Kaptai (50 MW) and an oil/natural gas
fired steam unit at Chittagong (60 MW), both of which are in the east zone;
and a large (110 MW) oil/fired steam unit at Khulna in the west zone. These



- 12 -
units, totalling 220 MW, are expected to be commissioned in FY83. In addi-
tion, initial steps are now being taken to install a 90 MW combined cycle
unit (combustion turbine/steam turbine) at Ashuganj, which is expected to be
commissioned in FY1983. A 125 MW nuclear unit shown in earlier investment
programs and which was not considered justified on economic grounds has since
been eliminated from BPDB's current program. Ongoing transmission projects
include the construction of about 500 km of 132 kV overhead lines to make
power available to isolated areas, especially in the west zone. The major
ongoing distribution projects are Greater Dacca Power Distribution, Greater
Chittagong Power Distribution and Greater Khulna Power Distribution.
External Assistance
42.     Bangladesh has been successful in the past in securing foreign funds
from various sources for the development of its power sector. In 1980,
foreign loans and grants available for the then ongoing projects of the
sector amounted to about US$430 million equivalent, covering generation,
transmission, distribution, rural electrification, system rehabilitation, and
technical assistance. Since most foreign financing provided by donors covers
only the foreign exchange costs, GOB has provided the local costs involved to
BPDB on the basis of 50% in the form of equity and 50% as loans.
43.     Credit 934-BD (Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project) in an
amount of US$28.0 million was approved in June 1979 and became effective on
November 20, 1979. Project implementation and consequently credit disburse-
ments have been slow; the project is currently about 18 months behind
schedule. This has been mainly due to the lack of sufficient capable BPDB
staff to provide counterpart support to the expatriate consultant recruited
for the project management unit. It is expected that the recent appointment
of local consultants to provide engineering services, especially for the 11
kV and low voltage networks, would strengthen BPDB's capabilities and improve
future performance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.     The proposed project is based on a feasibility report prepared by
consultants and financed under Credit 872-BD (Third Technical Assistance
Credit). It was appraised by a World Bank Mission which visited Bangladesh
in May/June, 1981. A report entitled "Bangladesh - Staff Appraisal Report -
Ashuganj Thermal Power Project" No. 3719c-BD, dated May 12, 1982, is being
distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/May,
1982. The GOB delegation was led by Mr. L. Majid of the External Resources
Division of the Ministry of Finance. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
45.     The proposed project would be the second IDA-assisted project in the
power sector. It would support BPDB's efforts to expand its existing
facilities to meet Bangladesh's demand for power till 1990; contribute to
foreign exchange savings through the substitution of domestic natural gas for
imported fuel for the generation of electricity; and address a number of
institutional issues that are critical for the long-term efficient develop-
ment of the power sector.
46.     The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year develop-
ment period (1982/83-1986/87) and would include:
(a) the expansion of the Ashuganj steam power plant through
the addition of two new gas-fired units of 150 MW each,
including boilers and ancillary electrical and mechanical
equipment;
(b) a 230 kV double circuit 48 km transmission line between
Ashuganj and Ghorasal, including a 230/132 kV substation; and
(c) a simulator to train BPDB's staff for the operation of steam
power plants.
47.     The Ashuganj power plant is located on the left bank of the Meghna
river, about 70 km north-east of Dacca (see attached map). The plant is
currently equipped with two gas-fired steam units of 64 MW each, which were
commissioned in 1970, and a further 90 MW combined cycle unit will be added
by 1983.
Fuel Supply
48.     Natural gas for the existing Ashuganj power plant is being supplied
by the Bangladesh Oil & Gas Corporation (Petrobangla) from the Titas gas
field, located about 12 km south-east of the power plant. The capacity of
the existing pipeline would be inadequate to meet the total gas requirements
in the area, including the Ashuganj plant upon commissioning of the proposed
project in 1986, the Ghorasal power plant which is planned to be extended by
two 210 MW units, as well as other existing and future consumers. Conse-
quently, GOB will install a second pipeline and increase the number of wells
in the Titas gas field. GOB would take all necessary action, satisfactory to
the Association, to ensure an adequate gas supply for the efficient operation
of the Ashuganj power plant (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 14 -
Power Transmission
49.     The generated power will be transmitted from Ashuganj through the
existing 132 kV grid to the consumers in the eastern part of the country and,
to the western part, through the 230 kV double circuit line to be financed
under the proposed project and the east-west interconnector (see paragraph
32).
Project Execution
50.     Responsibility for implementing the proposed project would rest with
the BPDB under the overall guidance of the Planning Commission, and the
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources. BPDB have engaged consultants to
prepare bidding documents and intends to appoint the same consultants to
assist in the supervision of all supply and construction contracts and the
coordination of all project works under terms and conditions of service,
satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Bidding and award of contracts for the main parts of the Project are
expected to be completed by mid-1983. Field work would start at the begin-
ning of 1983. The first unit would be commissioned by end-1985 and the
second unit by mid-1986.
Implementing Agency
51.     BPDB's Board of Directors consists of a Chairman and not more than
five members, all of whom are appointed by and hold office at the discretion
of the Government (GOB). This has led in the past to frequent turnover and a
lack of continuity, despite the fact that most of the persons promoted to top
management positions have been chosen from within BPDB's staff. While BPDB's
organizational chart suggests well defined lines of responsibilities, this
has not been the experience in practical terms. Although there have been
some improvements during the last 2-3 years, there is still insufficient
delegation of authority within BPDB, leading to excessive concentration of
decision-making at the level of top management. Present overstaffing also
creates inefficiency and existing administrative procedures are cumbersome;
the lack of an efficient internal reporting system also leaves managers at
all levels insufficiently informed about the actual status of BPDB's opera-
tions and finances. Although conceived as a semi-autonomous corporate
entity, BPDB functions essentially as a Government department with respon-
sibility for both policy decisions and certain day-to-day matters (e.g.
appointments, salaries, budget) being retained by GOB. Although undesirable
in the context of effective management, GOB considers this arrangement essen-
tial as a means of exercising control over the major sectors of the economy.
52.     The ADB has taken the lead among aid agencies in helping to improve
BPDB's efficiency and has financed a consultant's study of BPDB's management
which recommended a partial reorganization of BPDB with the objective of



- 15 -
providing more delegation of authority, spreading the load of work more
evenly, removing overlaps in the allocation of responsibilities and estab-
lishing new office procedures. Implementation of the consultant's recommen-
dations is currently underway though progress has been slow. BPDB would
implement a plan, satisfactory to the Association, based on the consultants
recommendations, to improve its organization and management (Section 3.04(a)
of the draft Project Agreement). Also, in order to minimize the risk of
delays during implementation of the proposed project, BPDB has appointed and
will retain a project manager whose qualifications, terms and conditions of
service are satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible exclusively
for the implementation of the proposed project (Section 3.01 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Training
53.     In 1980, BPDB had a staff of about 22,000 of which around 32% were
unskilled. In spite of BPDB's large number of staff, there is a shortage of
trained personnel. This is partly due to insufficient training and partly
the result of staff resignations, usually the more highly qualified ones.
54.     Reasonable facilities exist in the country and within BPDB for the
kind of training required for an electric power utility. In addition, under
the Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project (Credit 934-BD), assistance for
the implementation of a training center for BPDB's distribution staff, with
an annual capacity of about 300 employees, which when fully operational, will
meet BPDB's staff training requirements in the operation and maintenance of
distribution networks. Additional ongoing training programs financed by
various external donors would also contribute significantly to a resolution
of BPDB's staffing problems discussed in paragraph 38 above. The proposed
Project would finance the installation, at Ashuganj, of a simulator to train
BPDB's staff in the operation of steam power plants.
Cost Estimates
55.     Total project costs, excluding interest during construction but
including duties and taxes, are estimated at US$328.4 million, of which
US$228.1 million would be in foreign exchange. Of the estimated US$100.3
million in local costs, about US$12.4 million would be in duties and taxes.
Cost estimates are based on unit prices at January 1982 levels and adjusted
to reflect the following price contingencies for foreign costs: 8% in FY83;
7.5% in FY84 through FY85; 6.75% in FY86; and 6% in FY87 and thereafter.
Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated at 12% per annum till
FY85; 6.5% in FY86; and 6.3% in FY87. Physical contingencies of 5% on civil
works and transmission costs, and of 10% on plant costs have been allowed to
provide for unforeseeable factors. Costs of consultants have been estimated
at US$10,000 per man-month in foreign exchange to cover salaries, overhead,
fixed fees and international travel expenses; and at US$1,800 per man-month



- 16 -
in local currency to cover living allowances, support staff and other local
expenditures.
Co-Financing Arrangements
56.     The proposed IDA credit of $92 million would finance 40% of foreign
exchange costs, or about 30% of estimated total project costs, excluding
duties and taxes and interest during construction. Additional cofinancing
would include: a loan from the Kuwait Fund of US$35.0 million for a period
of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, with a service charge of
3/4 of 1%; an Asian Development Bank loan of US$30.6 million for a period of
40 years, including a five-year grace period, at an interest rate of 1% per
annum; a loan from the OPEC Fund of US$30.0 million for a period of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at a service charge of 3/4 of 1%; and a grant
of DM 115 million (about US$48 million) from the Federal Republic of Germany.
The loan from the OPEC Fund would be administered by the Kuwait Fund.
Together the external cofinanciers would finance 75% of the total costs of
the project (excluding duties and taxes and interest during ccastruction) and
about US$32.7 million in local costs. Because of the different procurement
procedures involved, separate packages have been worked out for financing by
each of the concerned donors. The proposed IDA credit would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the two boilers and ancillary equipment including
part of their related local costs; the cost of design of related civil works
and part of the cost of consultants' services. The FRG's grant contribution
would be tied to the procurement of the two turbine/generator units, includ-
ing condensers and direct ancillary equipment from German suppliers. The ADB
contribution would cover the entire foreign exchange cost and part of the
local cost of the balance of auxiliary electrical equipment and the cost of
the training simulator. The combined contributions of the Kuwait/OPEC Funds
would finance the entire foreign exchange cost and part of the local costs of
the 230 KV transmission lines, the substations and the civil works as well as
part of the cost of consultants' services. GOB would finance the balance of
local costs, estimated at US$67.6 million, including US$12.4 million in
duties and taxes, in addition to interest payments during construction,
estimated at around US$44.4 million. To ensure prompt provision of budgetary
funds and the hiring of project staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by
the Borrower would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(r) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Fulfillment of the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the OPEC Fund, Kuwait Fund and ADB loan
agreements; and the execution of the KFW grant agreement also would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 5.01(d) and
(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
1/ An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for the
release of funds and the hiring of staff.



- 17 -
On-lending Terms
57.     The IDA credit would be on-lent to BPDB for a period of 25 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum. The BPDB
would bear the foreign exchange risk. This is broadly in line with GOB's
current lending rates for public sector agencies and would result in a posi-
tive real rate of interest, based on an estimated medium-term inflation rate
of around 11% per annum. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
58.     All contracts to be financed from the proposed IDA credit would be
awarded under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with
Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement". The items to be financed by the
ADB, the Kuwait and OPEC Funds would be procured in accordance with their own
guidelines. The contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany to the
financing of the proposed project would be in form of a grant and tied to
procurement from German suppliers.
Disbursements
59.     Although the estimated disbursement period of the proposed IDA credit
is expected to be shorter than the typical disbursement profiles for power
projects in South Asia in general and in Bangladesh in particular, it is
considered realistic since: (a) the project is for an expansion of an exist-
ing power plant; and (b) the proposed credit would be used for equipment to
be procured in the early stages of implementation.
BPDB's Past Performance and Financial Recovery Plan
60.      BPDB's tariffs have not fully reflected the cost of power supply
which accounts for its cash deficits of about US$14.5 million in FY78,
US$11.9 million in FY79, and US$11.4 million in FY80. BPDB's accumulated
losses at the end of FY79 were about Tk 753.7 million (US$41.9 million)
representing 17.8% of its equity. To arrest BPDB's deteriorating financial
situation, GOB prepared in August 1977 a Financial Recovery Plan designed to
achieve gradually coverage of operating costs from revenues by FY82. The
main elements of the Plan were: (i) restructuring of BPDB's debt to GOB and
rescheduling of its foreign debt; (ii) reducing system losses; (iii) revising
the tariffs from time to time; and (iv) setting up programs for system
rehabilitation and management improvements. Most of the Plan's targets have
been achieved including: (i) conversion of GOB's pre-independence loans and
50% of post-independence loans to BPDB's equity; (ii) conversion of foreign
loans obtained after June 30, 1977 to 25-year loans, including five years of



- 18 -
grace; (iii) revision of tariffs, including two tariff increases in 1979 and
1980; (iv) separation of rural electrification investment and its financing
on the basis of GOB grants; and (v) the implementation of system rehabilita-
tion and management improvement programs. However, BPDB has had very little
success in reducing system losses.
System Losses
61.     For the past few years, power system losses, including station con-
sumption, have been abnormally high at over 35%. According to BPDB's
estimates, system losses amounted to around 40% in FY80, comprising some 26%
in technical losses and the rest attributable to unbilled and unpaid consump-
tion. It is also estimated that losses in urban distribution networks are
about 18% of total generation, reflecting overloaded facilities as well as
unpaid consumption due to pilferage, under-billing, and defective metering.
Although BPDB's Financial Recovery Plan provides for a gradual reduction in
system losses, and Credit 934-BD (Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project)
requires that BPDB's system losses be reduced gradually from a level of 37%
in FY79 to 23% in FY85, BPDB's system losses actually increased to around 40%
in FY80. GOB has provided a plan, satisfactory to the Association, detailing
specific measures designed to gradually reduce BPDB's system losses to around
23% by FY85. The plan specifies annual targets against which performance
will be monitored. GOB would ensure that BPDB implements the proposed plan
on a basis satisfactory to the Association including a program of measures,
satisfactory to the Association, for improving BPDB's collection procedures
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement; Sections 3.04(b)
and 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement). Implementation of the first phase
of the system losses reduction plan and submission of a program to improve
BPDB's collections procedures would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 5.01(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Tariffs
62.     As a result of tariff increases of 38% in September 1979 and 47% in
1980, the average revenue per kWh sold is expected to be about Tk 0.99
(US$0.055) in FY82, as compared to Tk 0.47 (US$0.03) prior to September 1979.
Although these were substantial tariff increases, the existing tariff will
not realize net internal cash generation sufficient to finance a reasonable
percentage of BPDB's investment program, as required under Credit 934-BD
(Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project) because of escalation in other
costs, particularly fuel. Accordingly, GOB would set tariffs at levels that
will enable BPDB to realize a net internal cash generation sufficient to
cover debt service and finance at least 20% of BPDB's capital expenditure
commencing in FY83 and 40% in FY87 and thereafter (Section 4.03(a) of the
draft Project Agreement). With the proposed reduction in the level of system
losses (see paragraph 61 above), this would require a further substantial



- 19 -
tariff increase in early FY83. In addition, GOB also would (i) no later than
December 31, 1984 carry out a study, under terms of reference and with the
assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Association, of "he bulk and
retail tariffs to be applied in the power sector, taking into account the
long-run marginal cost of supplying electricity and other financial con-
siderations; and (ii) no later than July 1, 1985 implement the tariff and the
recommendations of the above study after taking into account the comments of
the Association (Section 3.05 of the draft DCA). BPDB would annually revalue
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, its fixed assets in operation
(Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
Fuel Adjustment Clause
63.     During the past two years, domestic and imported fuel price increases
have impacted severely on the financial performance of BPDB. Fuel costs
represented about 50% of BPDB's total operating expenses in FY79 and about
71% of total operating expenses in FY81. The average fuel cost per kWh
generated in FY79 was Tk 0.20 and in FY81 around Tk 0.52. To mitigate the
impact of fuel cost increases in the future, GOB would ensure that BPDB's
tariff includes provision to enable BPDB, on the basis of quarterly reviews,
to make necessary adjustments to cover changes in domestic or foreign fuel
prices (Section 4.03(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Operating and Financial Ratios
64.     Under Credit 934-BD, BPDB is required to achieve an operating ratio
of: 135% in 1979/80; 120% in 1980/81; and 100% in 1981/82. As a result of
the two recently approved tariff increases, BPDB's operating ratios are:
132% in 1979/80; 120% in 1980/81 (preliminary); and 115% in 1981/82
(forecast). Based on actual BPDB figures for FY80 and provisional figures
for FY81, it seems that BPDB would have succeeded in meeting fully the provi-
sions of this covenant if the fuel cost increases had been less steep, and
that there is a gradual improvement towards break-even.
65.     BPDB has relied for the financing of its investment program on a
combination of: foreign loans to finance the foreign currency components;
Taka loans from GOB to finance 50% of the local capital expenditures; and
Taka equity from GOB to finance 50% of the local capital expenditures. Total
new borrowings over the period FY81 to FY90 are projected to increase to
around 7.4 times the level of borrowings at the beginning of the period,
while equity (including profit accumulation) is projected to increase by only
2.9 times. This suggests that, over the same period, BPDB's debt/equity
ratio is likely to increase from around 1.45:1 in FY81 to about 2.9:1 by
FY87, which approaches unfavorable levels. Accordingly, GOB would peri-
odically increase its equity contributions, as necessary, so as to maintain a
BPDB debt/equity ratio of not more than 1.5:1 (Sections 3.03(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and 4.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
BPDB has not increased its long-term debt liability to reflect current rates
of exchange. Accordingly, BPDB would annually revalue its debts payable in
foreign currency to reflect the prevailing rate of exchange at which such
foreign currency is obtainable by BPDB (Section 4.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
66.     Under BPDB's previous accounting practices the recording of revenues
was made on an accrual basis, while expenditures were recorded on a cash
basis. Also, materials and supplies were frequently charged to expenses
instead of inventory and fixed assets accounting was inadequate. With the
assistance of ADB-financed consultants, a new commercial accounting system
was designed in 1979 and approved for implementation in September 1980.
While some progress has been made in implementing the consultants' recommen-
dations, further efforts are needed to complete the process. Accordingly,
BPDB would, no later than December 31, 1983, implement fully the new account-
ing system throughout its entire operations, including the consultants recom-
mendations relating to meter reading, billing and collection (Section 4.02(a)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Billing and Collection
67.     During the appraisal of Credit 934-BD only about 67% of BPDB cus-
tomers had been billed and BPDB was required under the Credit to improve its
billing and collection procedures through a program of action to be developed
by the consultants retained to assist in the design of a new accounting
system. Based on actual figures for the period July 1980 to March 1981, only
about 70% of BPDB's customers had been billed and interviews with commercial
regional offices revealed that implementation of the consultants recommenda-
tions is still at the initial stage and that the system is suffering from
inadequate procedures and recording, besides the shortage of capable staff.
Furthermore, although collections were about 82.5% of billed consumption, it
represents only around 65% of sales targets. Provisional BPDB's figures
indicate that at the end of FY81, unpaid billed consumption amounted to about
Tk 670.0 million (US$37.0 million), equal to an average billing of 4.6 months
with most of the arrears representing unpaid consumption by Government agen-
cies and public sector corporations for which GOB is responsible. To improve
BPDB's collection performance, GOB would cause all Government agencies and
public sector corporations to settle their arrears in unpaid b'lls no later
than December 31, 1983 and ensure that payment for electricity consumption at
any time does not exceed 20% of annual average electricity consumption (Sec-
tion 3.04(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). BPDB also
would take action to ensure that with effect from June 30, 1982, its accounts
receivable from sales of electricity, at any time, is kept within a maximum
of 20% of its sales forecast as approved under its annual budget (Section
4.07 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 21 -
Environmental Impact
68.     The operation of the Ashuganj power plant at full capacity should
present no environmental problems. The available natural gas consists of
almost pure methane with an insignificant content of sulphur and no other
harmful components. Facilities for cleaning waste waters from the plant
would be provided so that the only pollution would be thermal from the heat
discharged from the plant condensers into the Meghna river; tests have shown
that the thermal pollution would be negligible.
Project Justification
69.     The proposed project represents the least-cost solution to provide
new base load capacity of 300 MW to meet the projected demand for electricity
in Bangladesh by 1986/87. The project will help conserve scarce foreign
exchange through substitution of power generated by domestic natural gas in
place of imported fuel and will support improvements in the financial and
technical operations of BPDB. The internal rate of return of the proposed
project has been calculated by using tariff revenues as well as estimates
of the consumers' surplus as a proxy for project benefits. On the basis of
tariff revenues, the average revenue per kWh sold is assumed to represent the
minimum value attached to electricity by consumers. On the cost side, the
base case assumes a real increase of fuel prices of 3% p.a. Additional cost
of transmission and distribution has been allocated to the project to reflect
valuation at the retail level. Using tariff revenues as the benefit proxy,
the internal rate of return is about 13%. The rate of return increases to
about 14% if fuel prices are assumed to remain constant in real terms, and
decreases to about 11% if costs are 10% higher or benefits 10% lower.
Risks
70.     The proposed project would not involve any unusual risks.  Due to the
limited local construction capability in Bangladesh and BPDB's cumbersome
administrative procedures, some delays may be experienced in the implementa-
tion of the proposed project which could result in cost overruns. However,
it is expected that the major civil works would be undertaken by an interna-
tional contractor; also possible delays would be kept to a minimum through
careful coordination and supervision during construction, in which the con-
sultants would play a major role. The problem of delay would be minimized
through the specially appointed Project Manager (see paragraph 52 above) to
be responsible exclusively for implementing the proposed project works (Sec-
tion 3.01 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Bangladesh Power Development Board, and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit include:
(i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and the Bangladesh Power Development Board (paragraph 57); (ii) the
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loan
agreements of the OPEC Fund, Kuwait Fund and Asian Development Bank; and the
execution of the KFW grant agreement on behalf of the Borrower and KFW
(paragraph 56); (iii) the commencement of system loss reduction measures
(paragraph 61); the submission of a program, satisfactory to the Association,
detailing measures to improve BPDB's collection performance (paragraph 61);
and (iv) the approval of the Project Proforma by the Borrower (paragraph 56).
73.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
May 12, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                 Annex 1
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVyRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                   MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3                1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                 ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     30.0         50.0       90.0*              232.3                      1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..         32.0le    40.8                499.4                     1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0        68117.0   88934.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1             7.6       10.8                 17.3                       40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        371.5        473.0      617.6                153.6                      373.1
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9          702.2      888.6                360.3                     2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRIICTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3         46.3       43.5                 37.4                       39.8
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         51.0       53.9                 59.2                       56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.2          2.7        2.6                 3.5                        3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.4        3.0                 2.1                        2.3
URBAN                                 3.6          6.3        6.8                 3.4                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.2         47.6       43.5                27.7                        29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        22.5         19.9       15.7                10.2                         7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.1        2.8                 2.5                         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         8.9                20.4                       44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            106.0        101.0      88.0                107.1                      123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     85.0         85.0       91.0                 98.6                      112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         43.0       58.5                 56.9                       62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0          9.0        9.0                 14.2                       19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        24.9         23.5       18.7                14.6                        4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6            44.9       48.8                57.7                       64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        153.0      130.0                89.1                       50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         45.0       53.0                30.1                       45.9
URBAN                                 ..          13.0       15.0                65.8                       68.0
RURAL                                  ..        47.0       55.0                 20.1                       34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          6.0        5.0                17.6                       53.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.0                 71.0                       71.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  4.8                       42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..      8427.2/c  8775.0                3857.7                     4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..     91872.9   56876.6                6411.8                     2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..       6610.01d  4402.0                1132.8                      588.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..      637.6                322.3                      579.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   23754.3                5600.5                     1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE 'SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  *           5.9/e     5.9
URBAN                                 ..           6.1/e     6.1
RURAI                                 ..           5.977     5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          3.O/e
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 24 -                                                   Annex 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVAMIES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                 ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 47.0          52.0      72.0                 85.9                      99.8
MALE                  66.0          68.0     103.0                 94.4                     100.6
FEMALE                26.0          34.0      40.0                 64.5                      98.8
SECDNDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0          19.0      22.0                 38.0/sa                   53.5
MALE                   14.0         29.0      32.0                 34.6/;ia                  58.4
FEMALE                  1.0          8.0       11.0                18.07a                    48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   1.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                      21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..        49.0       44.0                 32.8                      34.2
SECONDARY                              ,.         26.0      24.0                 19.9                      31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          21.6/f       23.0       26.0                52.8                      86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          0.4        0.4                 1.7                      12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PUPULATION                             ..         6.0         6.0                35.3                     174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PoPULATION                             ..          ..        0.4                  3.7                      50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                            4.3                 14.6                     106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                               .                 3.4                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6        23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6       17.4                 29.3                      37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9       74.0                 69.8                      50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5       11.0                 14.1                      21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  36.0         34.7       35.3                39.7                      40.2
MALE                                   58.7         55.9       56.5                51.5                      49.8
FEMALE                                 11.4         11.9       12.7                23.3                      31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/[         16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g         42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/g          7.9/h      8.0/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9k          19.67        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATEI ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      139.0                134.1                     248.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..      111.0                111.6                     193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR3AN                                 ..           ..         ..                   ..                    249.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                   ..                     234.3
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       86.0                41.7                       21.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       86.0                 51.7                      32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country,  /d Goversment hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/t 1962; _/ 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates which is
shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $120 (at 1978-80 prices) and
90199 thousand.
May, 1981



- 25 -                                                                                 Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes--  Although the.aaae drwnfomsuresgnealyjdged the mstahoiattvs an   eibe tsoldalso he t outd that they say  ut he Inter-
nantiu"llycomaralobecus f the look of. sedardled defotos  e   o                             -er   sd by dif eetcueIrs toulann   the data.  The dol onar, rOte-
thel ..s.. usful to des-libe   der  of  aguitude, idiuste creeds, end rh-rcteelia  cernaio majordferne  bet.e...unIr..                  s
The refere groups em  (Illthe saecutY group of the nub) err roun..ry and (2)ater    ro    Ihnmwa   Ihrseaetcm   hno   cnr   ru
ofte  o)e  i onitry  (entep  for "inpftlel tur.pl  Oil thpres   ro    hre"edeIcm    oth Atrf  end Middle tact" is ohuse..becueo   trne
noIo"cultur .l aOtOse).  So oh5rfrnsgopdt  the aePnge.aedpoputfo  neighted aithnetic.. nean  foe each Inicator And shon orly ehen
eaclyonh   otoe    ngophsdr   o   htid                    iao.Slos  h   osrg  of  _o_ties neo  the irdirtors dPepeds 00 the a-sllhilityofdt
oo   s  o  tOft   cauIon. oust lhe -nteryOed Ou relatc i,.ave.g.   ofoetoOso  tonother.  Tteee  --erge  ace only usful  ' looca ghtn-u- of
LtSAREA (thru.oo  sIs)PpltopePapolnd                                                                                               uno, uhat orfrual            . Po taco   (rural
Ttl-Ttl srfar  -rnoPrli.iog laud .r.a et,d inl1nd waters.                                urba,ud rl d% ivIded~j  bynbterrnpcrtenmero  hala-bd
bya    atoePhysiulao.  EtstalinhmntsproIdgpinOaly cus to-
IM   E   APITA (US$) - INP Pre culon  atmat    t cren         laket priose, cl1-                dyia l.rt neuc   iucladed.  uRal-  hoaPotals, honeve, Seclude health
ouIloed by sane corersun nethod an Woold Baok Atlos (1977-79 basis); 196i.                        andlmedicl.cntr  not p-n-trlY staffed by ,             hsca   htb 
datlor n,,d P-icde a lIiited  -augi of aedIta aIiis    o   ins
a                       ONO~~~~~~~~~~~ RGY COlFSOPlNp' PtOCAITA - AnnuaL cons....tiur o  commrcl  energj (olnloprpar   rhthoptasinoif un MOOn prOi ipnhgfef-                                      boslila
and lignite, petrleu, naturl1 gas aod hydro-,tceradgohra  alc-an  ruaI opOtale-b  loa. rruapoytasan-lfaladmatot
o   icop    n kilglogta   of coa  equivaer  pn  apts  1961,-1970  atit9cnen    pcnle    opoasaeIcue   nyudrttl
daa.Anlslt rtOuoSa Nd      oilnume                                                                            Pfonninnt   rdshre
itl i t y                                   '~~~~~~~~~ d   11 , 7 1           " I l l  h~r o   b o y o a l  dP i vt d e   b y th- o n a r o f h n
POpTIATC7N PAR SIlAS, STATISTICS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Totalrocultlon,Mud-Yar (tousaus) -     of  uly ; 1965,nd1970,t  nod190iSClO
population Pro(ectioon                                             Average ounber of reracon  per room - ttl uran a-ind rura  -1 Average.rm
OPoulatioN AND ya   00-Cretpploo    o)oin   r   ae   n16                                          her TAITCSI. of ponnorn  iper. roo  toe o uban, an   urlocaOd  onotoa
Projection prootoecs for~rtallry oson conprtoe  f rhine  fevonanson-  unocupIed parta
fertiliyaooucdogtcoocna  leve   no  pantfamly p-non  perftrnsnce._   ongq.tl
ard fertlity  trodn 1 cc  rojectic   purposes   -adlluysto.t                           d  Onroll--eent Ratios                        y.._ynt  .  nl.dI
Statoney  1ou 9sic        I'oana I'nlr   ponoio   hreito  rnb  ic                          Ph.mar..sohoold - nisi  maleand  enaa           osttl   aeadfml
tOe birnh race ur equal to the death rate, und alto theogeatroinorece-   erroilneut of alt 0gm  at the poimary levell an perceotagen t   of ranprotivel
settlevl.                                                                                        duorioreqirr,orloa-  fur  eor  of.d  ap-proed prir  itttotod
Tea atcirac  ppultin I  ronhd    he  yerer tnoaypouainpoie    encl   oainl   r  ere   riigisca  ic   u   ui
ony;190  191  oid 1916     -t data.    i                                                 Pupi-.l-teatt  ai     rmn.adeoney-Tt eo                              nuldi
Poultin  g Sfruue tilit rce-I.  h- Childon  (Sl  paa .tarin-ta()-pImary and necondry levin   iieRynneao   rcenN  h
0peoc)  adeote   05yan  n   0e)a .d Penonoaef of  id-lu  pon                                     creaodng  ees
lalo;  96, 17,Id  ane 97   at.Aul_itrcytt  (prd ncd-1iterat  rduPlti_abenoradau   rie
toud   birth Rt    t  thusnd   - Annual livet cth  prtosdofi-yaorsetigesthhan                                               1 eigh  ponts   n ae   nhlne,hanso
populaoiuo; 1960, 1971, and 0919 dnta- ni  .t.r velesI.11g.l'h   " l                                                                      -         .o
popuonio; 190, 170,  rf R79 dta.broerasnto  AmerailnhitYpr tounad ofpopuatio; anludn  on
-rssOrrdcnn RTei-Averag   nubrod          agtr        ontwl  eri                           iesdroirei   onre   f 1d in year  ehe   reis naio   of   di
iity :P rat.e; usually' f ice-yenr    -Peragna no ing-in.1960, 19.0, aI 1979.;most lountriedabolished-1 ireneiug
of  irb-onro  dat_sunelsf      ioa  fnaiuu   aml   plorig   otam.                         genra  poblic       d per thuadipopulatioen;gat lodnlirenendlt TV renier
POAfINtReIThON                                                                                 to bet"duily" if ii sppnar-   at leaa_   fou  finoa   dnn
p_odtio    falfn   oadnr.Pouto   nldnse   o   ededtcessl  durie  thenear.  otudngtad issions no.. drie-i.                                                                a
St 00clna.er.oi.iendiisot   rmr  good.(e..-suarPan                                              od2oeutile units
iuseadof  ugi) w ich are edibend cuTain.   h-rirt  (e.g., rouse nod                                     eq~le
oaeinalnvaagnprouosrprie eOghn;  961-5,  070  an  199 daa.          uta laor .or      . (thoasands)     -  Y-Ro honipalyc niv  peralta,incodn
Pe haia.c.       fclce   prcn   frniaeno-Cmue  fo                                            re   ocsadoepue bon-nuluing  ouseives  liudets.so.
por day.  Available- npylte1e1 coprie     l domestic proacton  impotsl. lnnn  opral;160d90  n   97Iaa
emporto,e. ond 0 c 197g 0 i d snoth   Pet epl     noueafa fe,ses                           Peale treent)-  P.emtlet .n.or  forteas-proeVage of . toa  labort forc.
quaoit le uad tofct  -roCeniPg,tad -oene  fnds_       ioin.RqIre                       niatr  cren               ao   oc  in famig,foesry Puotio  andp.d
senlyonra96a0     e   Op9PAP bad     o   hsooia   pnfrora   ci-fsiga   eoneao   oa   ao  foo;16.179ad7IaA
undaendinnihcic  c  pouato,  r   llnng1  pret  o    seatad  lotily,ete   n  gas as peroenneeo   oa   abrfre 90
toooeA.. SlovS,16-0,199  onId-17  daco.  y-9TTt nod 19t(9 dati.                                                                                                           i
PrcpIto dol   fpcni  a            aprday         Poni  cotent -of percait                   Pariirto  Rt            lYocn I -1 tonal,d male and fe of t orte-icnrtho o
netynpl   ffodp0dy    o  upply of "food Bis dsfns  an- ahv. Os-                               artctyrtsoocnpte.a   onl,mae,ad  emlelbo  froa
alooc 1970gan0     ftoi  cti  prdyen   0gas  faialad160   90   od17   at.T7nsaehaddntP  priiano   ae
pulse proror, of elch 10     Il grae soul   be -anim lprtein.f Thes   iad-              relc in  agle.y-sent' strucur  ofthePopuaton, and '1'       gtimetrend.d
Oorld Pood lurvep  1960-65,'.1970 nd171. oat,                                                  oteaotadlbo   force.
Chili ucee -AS Mrtaliy Rat  Aper    linan)-   Anut al dea-ths  er- hnetd  i yet        ft-eroaeol     riae-cs (both to canh end kiud)ge- Racai-ed by rIhet.
iPir  data onndtonlf  tables;199tP, 19709an  1979fana                                           ofhose olds.
00 bith;  960,1970sod  979  Ata,                                                       andthehpoldh be idtofrinoyed nfh   onidral    tytoo
Cofant Donilit Rat (per thousnd)-Anaddab   ftfet   ne(nspe aiandAsli Poety .noalee.P..edatie    ubnsd ua
of age perthaueeod  int tbirth..Absolut  poert  ncon1 P el ista                                                                 Aooolrl   belco which, a Ininina
AncPas to hof 1acer (crec  frrlaih- oa,thu  n  raraSt- Ntb--outntioe_yadqut  dirtpc                                                      ...ta   o-P       eur mrsi   o
bRnfpeole  toal  ura,  o   url  rteraoaracestosf                                             ufrdde
dse  uch ion thte from  prtetd-b,ofehude, priugs  an  sentl nary osisan                    Ruaieaiv        noet  icoma level.t  it  .l on-hird          of avrgept daic
be, 11-1 Ilpld,,Ii ,Ii,d if   -P,,iec "P..... .B'pereonal  icffr of cha country.. tra  level ia derived fromlbl thrra
fountain  c standpnt locate  not moo  tha n,in10mtrfomahueaya 1960                           whIedueteto  or ighe  cotoi lvn   i   remaes
FuosIdee  a  eogntinraonbeaceoofta  hue I                          n cora  areain 
restal  accss would               p              - imlythttohusefto  pien.bere... oftehueod tenRimati-d PorPnic theulon PAnslointe  PoeTy Inc.. ilevel, (patso)   t
do tnthove o apeo  a Siproporionoo   part  f thedey t  ieetchivg  th              poor".                  ...   .plti.   -.u.  ui                   T
of obsircenpeotuve perulationa.Y fIoc__ta.dinpeeafinmay inolode
Poultonrd           siit-Pouait.   divided by1  Inber of practicing physi-I
clan  qulitd  ro o        efiof schol.atPitvs.i.y.evel
Pc'rnoton ce nradsperon-  opltin  ivdduy mero  pacicn
mo   ad  eml  grdbneoCane,dpractical oucasa, so        .de.desinu                      tinturlsea.            hey.,  o digdj.i.  t                           i_



Annex I
Page 4
-26 -
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (Z)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                      FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81         FY60      FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                       11,989                4.0       -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                 6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5     53.6
Industry /a                                    1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3     14.0
Services 7a                                    3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2     32.4
Consumption                                     11,701                4.4       -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1     97.6
Gross domestic investment                         2,064              10.9      -10.9       20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                              859               0.8      -11.7        5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                           2,635                8.8      -12.0        3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4     22.0
Gross national savings                              639              26.5      -17.7       -8.4           0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(million US$                                                       (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                  FY73      FY75     FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                 710.8                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                        165.2                                                40.4      29.6     24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                      545.6                                                59.6      70.4     75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                               2,524.0                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                44.1      41.5     29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                         490.1                                                 3.2      11.1     15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                             580.0                                                13.8       9.6     20.0      23.0
Other                                          1,111.5                                                 38.9      37.8     35.1      44.0
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2     264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                   * 7.9661       8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                          103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                          152.8        194.8     186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                         67.9         63.4      57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3      62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80      FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                          5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6     12.0
Current expenditure                                                      6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8      7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
'apital expenditure                                                      8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5     12.1
Foreign financing                                                         7.1      2.4      6.0       8.3      7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                                          4.2       -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                               1.5        -3.3       3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
.    not available
.   not applicable
/a At market prices.
75 Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



Annex I
-  27  -                                                    Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                  Projected
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79        FY80       FY81         FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                 -551    -1,050        -885        -454       -859       -946    -1,645    -1,813         -1,780    -1,938
Exports of goods                                    374        352        381        411         490        610        727        711          640        732
Imports of goods                                   -925      1,402    -1,266        -865    -1,349    -1,556    -2,372    -2,524            -2,420    -2,670
Net exports of services                               -21         12        -24         -29        -32        -27          3         11           -70      -120
Workers' remittances                                   19          34         62         81        113        143        210        377           400        450
Current account balance                              -553    -1,004        -847       -402        -778       -830    -1,432    -1,425         -1,450    -1,608
Direct private investment                               ..        ..          ..         ..         ..         ..         ..
MLT loans (net)                                       276        498         498        238        398        420        581        481           501
Grants & grant-like flows                             174        382         245        265        393        553        591        616          650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                              45        275          52        -20        -38        -19        141        304           199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                      58       -151          53        -81         25       -124        119         24           100        -
International reserves (end of period)                115        266        213         294        269        393        274        250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year           0.98       2.52       2.95        2.62       2.07       1.99       1.30       1.24         0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75        FY76         FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                     173.8       382.3       244.7        264.8       392.6       553.2       590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                    287.4       518.9        563.5       268.3       433.3       476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                      201.4       458.4       533.0       244.1        400.8       456.4       601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                       150.4       342.8       389.9       144.0        261.9       212.6       272.7       255.2
IDA                                             51.0        112.5       127.8        86.1        88.2        152.5       152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                                -           3.1        15.3         14.1        50.7        91.3       176.9        83.4
Non-concessional                                   86.0        60.4        30.4         24.1        34.5        20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                          40.6        45.2        16.5          5.6         1.7         3.3        16.8         2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                                5.4         0.3         1.1         0.5          0.5         0.1         0.3         0.8
Private                                          40.0        14.9        12.8         18.0        32.3        17.0        12.7        18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8    1,352.6           1,795.9    2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6    3,584.8
Official                                          383.3    1,232.8    1,689.0    1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8    3,462.1
IBRD                                              -          54.9        54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9
IDA                                            105.6        255.3       379.8       465.9        554.2       706.7       858.8    1,028.5
Other                                           222.8       922.6    1,254.3    1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7    2,155.1    2,378.7
Private                                           109.5       119.8       106.9        111.6       133.6       140.9       146.8       122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                    580.8    1,019.4         947.5    1,015.8    1,335.4    1,659.1    1,716.7    2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                          18.0 '      31.3         87.4        58.5        69.2        95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                            7.3        10.1        21.9         28.4        32.1        38.1        43.3         42.0
Payments as % of export earnings                      4.8          8.9        22.9        14.2        14.1         15.6        12.9        12.9
Payments as % of GNP                                  0.2         0.2          1.2         0.9         0.8          1.0         0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)                3.2         2.0          1.7         1.6         1.5          1.4         1.4         1.6
Official                                            2.9         2.0         1.6          1.5         1.3         1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                             5.1         2.3         7.8          6.4         6.2         6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                26.1        35.5         41.6        40.1        37.7        35.9         33.6        35.9
Official                                           28.3        35.8        42.2         40.8        38.6        36.3        34.2         36.2
Private                                            13.3        15.3        11.3         11.0         9.5        14.8        19.3         18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (X)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                    -           4.0          3.0         2.6         2.1         1.8          1.7         1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements
IBRD debt service/total debt service                  -           -            1.8         5.6         4.8         4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                    21.4        18.8         21.1        22.7        21.6        24.0         26.7        28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements          17.7        21.7        22.7         32.1        20.3        32.0         24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                   1.3         3.1          2.5         5.3         5.4         4.6          6.0         7.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (X)
Maturities due within 5 years                                          13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                         36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                          1.6
- not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



ANNEX II
- 28 -                        Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                    54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                       -     14.00      0.68
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)            -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                      -       7.50     1.00
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II             -      20.00     6.80
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer               -     62.00      3.53
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                        -      15.00     4.08
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                -      27.00    13.45
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation              -      22.00     8.34
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -        12.00     4.24
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                 -      16.00     6.44
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank            -     25.00      3.90
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -      16.00     3.14
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -     21.00    12.25
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -      10.00     3.86
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -       5.00     2.42
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -     21.00    14.17
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -     25.00    19.41
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -       7.00     3.72
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -       6.00     2.25
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -      19.00    14.33
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -      10.00     5.80
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -       6.00     5.20
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -     25.00    21.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II  -        32.00    29.12
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -     28.00    27.60
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -     22.00    11.96
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    23.21
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -       10.00      8.89
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -       50.00      2.84
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -       37.00    21.94
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -          20.00    19.39
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    28.84
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    16.22
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -       11.00    10.32
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -       25.00      1.74
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    37.25
1065   1981   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -       35.00    34.70
1071   1981   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -       65.00    17.70
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -       85.00    72.20
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    20.20
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -       50.00    49.90
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -       16.00    16.00
1140   1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -       18.00    18.00
1147   1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -       40.00    40.00
1184/b 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    27.00
1194   1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -      100.00   100.00
1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -          15.00    15.00
1205 W 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -       30.00    30.00
1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -       27.00    27.00
Total                                               54.90  1,982.82   869.80
of which has been repaid                            -         0.40     -
Total now outstanding                               54.90  1,982.42   869.80
Amount sold                                          0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      54.90  1,982.42
Total undisbursed                                             869.80   869.80
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
T7   Not yet effective.



30                         ANNEX II
30-                ~~~~~Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                         Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                  Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding            Ship-
and Heavy Engineering            building
Co. Ltd.                                            1.20    0.36    1.56
1980       IPDC                             DFC                 -      1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                        1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -             -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                              1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                             0.65       -      0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery            2.1       .2      2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Corporation (BADC), the project lead agency, has been requested to initiate
the preparation of the PCR. It has been agreed that disbursements will con-
tinue through April 30, 1982 against items contracted prior to December 31,
1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975;  Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project.
Civil works in the original project area are completed. About 735 low lift
pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. How-
ever, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to inhibit full
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. They are, however, improving.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 60 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates prep-
ared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB has
been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be substantially
reduced. Construction works for the hatchery complex, training hostel and
staff quarters related to the fisheries component are expected to be completed
by April 1982. Fish seed production on a commercial basis has started in 1981
and will reach full capacity in 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow full completion of components which were
initially delayed.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                      Page 5
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification for the closure dam
and embankments, the only remaining major works, has been done. The design
for the works produced by the consultants is much more sophisticated than
envisaged at appraisal. Though revised cost estimates are not available
to IDA, it is estimated that the cost overrun on this component could be
substantial. BWDB has been asked to prepare alternative design proposals.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977;  Effective Date:  January 6, 1978;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress; all procurement
has been completed and efforts are being made to speed up the civil works
program to ensure completion before credit closure at June 30, 1982. Although
the extension service is now well structured and better disciplined, the
methodology needs continued improvement. Good extension/research linkages
have been established; the research program now places more emphasis on
off-station work aimed at finding practical solutions to farmer problems.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component may be scaled down.



33                        ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project-s 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
been taken up only recently. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project is making satisfactory progress. The BARC headquarters
building is complete and fully operational. BARI station developments are
almost complete at Jessore and Janalpur, but Hathazari is behind schedule.
The Research Grant Scheme is operating well and supports 40 research sub-
projects in eleven institutes. An evaluation and monitoring system has been
inaugurated. The foreign training component finances 31 PhD students at 15
universities. All Project funds fully committed.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a slow start, construction of civil works in the central
hatchery complex has commenced in January 1982. It is hoped that the imple-
mentation delays can be made up at least partially and that the central
hatchery will go into operation by June 1983. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by Tk 26 million (23%). Such increase will necessi-
tate an additional government input of Tk 18 million. IDA-s share of the
increase can be absorbed within the Credit amount because of Taka devaluation
of about 19% since appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs, the Phase I
sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been placed
for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has begun with about
1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant was appointed and visited the areas
in July 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (formerly Bangladesh Landset
Program) should undertake the five year Remote Sensing Program and a draft
scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained in February will be
processed shortly; aerial photography was recently completed.
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project staff are in place and tendering procedures for raw materials
to fabricate 90,000 tubewells are complete. However, procurement procedures
are being held up by inadequate budgetary allocations. A minimum of six months
lead time is required for procurement and local fabrication, and delays could
affect tubewell availability and sales in the 1982/83 boro season. Price
parity between BADC carry-over stocks and project tubewells is yet to be
established. Planning Commission has been alerted to both of these problems.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit for investments
in minor irrigation and other agricultural development. The privatization of
shallow tubewell sales has not made much progress, primarily due to the price
differential between public sector and private sector sales and the reluctance
of government to issue import licenses to private dealers. Appointment of
consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency, is yet to
be made.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                      Page 8
Cr. No. 1184  Second Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant has been
mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total project costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing but with an increase in foreign exchange requirement of about
US$12 million.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit is
continuing with improvement in BSB's operations, especially in the areas of
loan accounting and staff training. Areas of operational weakness, partic-
ularly project appraisal and loan collections are receiving close GOB/IDA
supervision.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional



ANNEX II
- 36 -                      Page 9
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
Implementation of action programs undertaken under this and preceding
import program credits are proceeding satisfactorily, although GOB has yet to
make the full FY81 infusions of equity agreed for public sector units in the
Jute and Textile Sectors. This situation will be monitored by forthcoming
mission to Bangladesh. As of March 31, 1982 the credit has been fully commit-
ted, while disbursements were US$47.2 million. Allowing for processing of pay-
ments in the pipeline, the credit should be fully disbursed within the next few
months.
Cr. No. 1023  Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1982 US$23.26 million had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                   Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. Action is also
underway to strengthen BSBs sectoral review capabilities.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982.
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date:  June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is nearing completion. All buildings in the three
new ATIs have been completed and only minor works, for which contracts have
been let, remain. Of the four existing ATIs, construction and renovation
are virtually complete. As a result of student strikes in 1981 no first year
students were enrolled and the institutions are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. Staffing is adequate and most have received in-service
training under the project. The AMTI course has been successful and an
extension of three years is now under consideration. RMB is closely super-
vising the project and GOB have been asked to ensure that all taka funds
necessary for completion of the project by June 30, 1982 will be provided.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                      Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is encountering major problems in the areas of manage-
ment and institution building. The Project Implementation Unit is not opera-
ting well, largely as a result of the lack of a full-time Project Director,
and also because the Project Manager is a consultant to the Government
and therefore lacks financial authority. The functions of other PIU staff
are still not clearly defined, and the Chief Technical Adviser of the ILO
technical assistance team has recently resigned.
The National Council for Skill Development and Training has not
functioned well since its inception, having met only once in two years.
The various sub-committees have also only met irregularly. The appointment
of staff for the Secretariat is lagging considerably behind schedule, and
as yet, no site has been acquired for the headquarters building.
The In-Plant and Instructor Training Programs are progressing,
but at a slower than planned rate because of difficulties in financing the
recurrent costs. The Revolving Fund established to facilitate this process
has not been replenished. Tenders have been called for the construction of
the five new Technical Training Centers, but the program is still about 18
months delayed. As a result of the February/March supervision, the Govern-
ment has been advised that quick actions were needed to solve these problems.
Cr. No. 1054  Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), particularly the establishment of the
project implementation infrastructure, staff training, base line evaluation,
materials production and distribution' (girls uniforms and textbooks), and
the formation of the Directorate of Primary and Mass Education, Local Educa-
tion Authorities and School Management Committees, have all been substantially
completed. The second year program has begun, but some delays are evident
primarily in the construction program. The Government-s decision to concen-
trate on school repair and other minor works during the first year of the
national UPE has delayed the start of construction on the schools to which
IDA funds have been targeted. There is also some evidence that the recurrent
training started during the first year may not, as yet, be achieving all of
its intended objectives. The Government has recognized these issues and
have taken appropriate steps to remedy the situation.



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities),-implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980.  Progress
in implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project,
in respect of which the original Closing Date was extended initially by one
year, has improved slightly during the last six months, although it is still
slow and therefore unsatisfactory. Although 9 of the 21 project training
and service facilities were fully completed by September 30, 1981 and 4 more
were expected to be handed over by December 31, 1981, the remaining 8 will not
be completed until mid-1982. In the circumstances and at the Government's
request, the Closing Date has been extended for a second and final period
of nine months to September 30, 1982 to permit full project completion and
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Centers component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government's
revision of its Second Five-Year Plan. These problems combined with the
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the results are
awaited. The Closing Date of the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance



ANNEX II
-40-                      Page 13
to cover short term protective Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost
of eligible components of the arbitration. Significant failures have appeared
on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and tenders for telecommunication equipment
have been issued. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service
vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants appointed to carry
out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and accounting systems
for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Implementation of the
recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress. At the request of
the Borrower the closing date has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted, and continues to result, in increased project cost due to inflation.
The problem appears to result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g.,
the ineptitude of the "Procurement Committee" and standard Government proce-
dures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by mid-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a



_ 41 _                        ANNEX II
Page 14
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved
a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development
program within the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on com-
mercial accounts is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be
prepared from FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is
reasonably good. Covenants under the project are now being complied with.
TTB has recently taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB-s
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the Fourth Technical Assistance
credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.



- 42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year, in line
with original schedule.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by mid-1982. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. A tariff increase is needed and WASA
has problems in collecting arrears from Government departments; there is also
a land acquisition problem. GOB has been asked to ensure that all of these
matters are quickly resolved.



ANNEX III
- 43 -                         Page I
BANGLADESH
ASHUGANJ THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Nine months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
BPDB assisted by consultants
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
Early 1980
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
February 1981
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
May 1981
(f) Completion of negotiations:
May 1982
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
Financing of consultant's costs under Credit
1124-BD (Fourth Technical Assistance Credit),
from date of engagement up to date of proposed
credit signing, for preparation of bidding
documents and supervision of project implementation.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  GOB would ensure an adequate gas supply for the effi-
cient operation of the Ashuganj power plant (paragraph
48);
(b)  GOB would on-lend the proceeds of the proposed credit
to BPDB for a period of 25 years, including five years
of grace, at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum
(paragraph 57);
(c)  GOB would implement a program of measures for a gradual
reduction of BPDB's system losses including measures to
improve BPDB's collection procedures (paragraph 61);
(d)  BPDB's tariff will be adjusted to generate sufficient
net internal revenues to cover 20% in FY83 and 40% in
FY87 of BPDB's capital investment program (paragraph
62);
(e)  GOB would ensure that BPDB's tariff includes provision
for a fuel adjustment clause (para 63);
(f)  Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bangladesh
Power Development Board (paragraph 57);
(ii) the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the OPEC Fund, Kuwait Fund and ADB
loans and the execution of the KFW grant agreement
(paragraph 56);
(iii) the commencement of the system losses reduction
measures, (paragraph 61);
(iv) submission of program of measures to improve BPDB's
collection procedures (paragraph 61); and
(v) the approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 56).



rTl--~                            -    R     ;t>.   
W/tjE  oXD
_  Z                 G                                .                              O                                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
18 g910t ausl~~~~~~~~ri






IBRD 16000
BANGLADESH                               SEPTEMBR I
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
ASHUGANJ THERMAL POWER PROJECT
- 4fogh-  Ri,s,                                    ~~~~~~~PROJECT SITE LAYOUT
0   <;    -/   i7   m   e   q  6na  ti  ve r e>hs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E .st .
Ex teroion (IDA Bro;ec l
L Q # t ~~~~~~~~~~ofV    I:1 
'   f0;  01 t    Xt@(x  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I bl;-                                              ,- 
njX~~~~o             ,,a10P"6tot,nn17' tr                                         m
fIIZZh  ti                            U C  
(3)                     'S k~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~V  r'~
k; t >> d XC= Fi,,,i , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 ro n k
2   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                            0
kPS|f|ir l Nlfb   W t lS  -F   fi|d4ip .   W W 10 h    r  2 4 ]    t w S   = D
___ ~~                                          ___                   F7:.                   '            e, 0 ,  ,,0  20  3..  so                      >         M
_______                                                         T      J0 0'p0 i- 0-    =00 W S  10  0   ' 'r r0 .0,,00- t
h.-~~~~~~T,0d 1, ooIoo0o,,,0l0T00~~lo000000
M.E ~~~~~i-    Kd000o1.0 
C-1h.                                                                                         Nk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f0   0,0  ,00 O   0 00      0000 000    10o,4ogo 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POO loo90000



