CREDIT NUMBER 1254 BD
Project Agreement
(Ashuganj Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated            w.t     30        ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMJBER 1254 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Lwvy   ;0-, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO   hereinafter called the Association) and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELO   NT BOARD (hereinafter called BPDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighty two million and seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,700,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BPDB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BPDB, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BPDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS BPDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BPDB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BPDB in carrying out the
Project, BPDB shall employ consultants whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BPDB undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by BPDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) BPDB shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section' 2.05 (a) BPDB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   BPDB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such


﻿-3-
information   as   the  Association   shall   reasonably   request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)  Upon the award by BPDB of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BPDB and the
Association, BPDB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by BPDB and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e)  BPDB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of BPDB and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. BPDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BPDB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association and the Borrower with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) BPDB shall promptly inform the Association and the Bor-
rower of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BPDB of its


﻿-4-
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. BPDB shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BPDB
Section 3.01. BPDB shall carry on its opirations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management (including a Project Manager
with qualifications satisfactory to the Association) assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BPDB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. BPDB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. BPDB shall implement: (a) a plan, satisfactory
to the Association and the Borrower, to improve its organization
and management; and (b) a phased program satisfactory to the
Association for the reduction of system losses and for the
improvement of its billing procedures.
Section 3.05. The BPDB shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the
Association a program satisfactory to the Association for the
improvement of its collection procedures; and (b) thereafter
carry out such program taking into account the Association's
comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BPDB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) BPDB shall, by December 31, 1983, imple-
ment fully throughout its entire operations an accounting system
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) BPDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of BPDB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03 (a) BPDB shalL take all action necessary on
its part to ensure that tariffs are set at levels that will pro-
vide revenues sufficient to: (i) cover its administrative and
operating expenses (including maintenance and adequate provision
for depreciation), and taxes and other payments to the B-rrower,
if any; and (ii) cover all interest payments and other charges on
debt, adequate provision for bad debts, and repayment of debt
when due as far as such repayment exceeds depreciation, and to
finance at least 20% of BPDB's investment program in its fiscal
year 1983, 25% in its fiscal year 1984 and at least 40% in its
fiscal year 1987 and thereafter. In calculating the percentage of
net internal cash generation in relation to investments, BPDB
will employ a three-year average comprising two years' actual
investment expenditures and one year of projected average invest-
ment; the result of the second actual year's investment expendi-
tures will be included ir. calculating the net internal cash gen-
eration.
(b)  Before April 1, in each of its fiscal years, BPDB
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by BPDB on a
basis satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in the preceding para-
graph (a) for the current and next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association the results of
such review upon its completion for their approval.


﻿-6-
(c)  BPDB shall, on the basis of quarterly reviews, ensure
that its tariffs include provisions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for necessary adjustments to cover changes in domestic or
foreign fuel prices.
Section 4.04. BPDB shall, commencing in its fiscal year
1983, annually revalue, in a manner satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, BPDB's fixed assets in operation.
Section 4.05. (a) BPDB shall maintain a debt/equity ratio of
not more than 1.5:1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is orig-
inally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agree-
ment or guarantee agreement providing for such
debt; and
(iii) the term "equity" means BPDB's capital, retained
earnings, surplus and reserves (including any
revaluation reserve but excluding any reserve
allocated to cover specific liabilities);
Section 4.06. BPDB shall, commencing in its fiscal year
1983, annually revalue in terms of the Borrower's currency debt
payable in foreign currency, such revaluation to be made at the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such revaluation, obtainable by BPDB.
Section 4.07. BPDB shall take all necessary action to
maintain, at any time, its accounts receivable from the sale of
electricity within a maximum of 20% of the sales forecast of
electricity as recorded in BPDB's annual budget as approved by
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BPDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BPDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI -
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For BPDB:
Bangladesh Power Development Board
WAPDA Building
Motijheel Commercial Area
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
POWER BOARD                        65617 BPB BJ
Dacca
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken.
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BPDB may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as its Chairman shall
designate in writing, and BPDB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
WC4/     Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the cur-
rent edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BPDB shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender relating thereto, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. BPDB shall provide the necessary informa-
tion to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes -levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering goods manufactured    in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of BPDB and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
go9ds offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 1.1 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a)   Before bids are invited, BPDB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, BPDB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
BPDB and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except ,.n cases of


﻿- 12 -
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, BPDB shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform BPDB and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2i       day of          ,
198 1..
FOR SECRETARY


