NEDIT NUMBER 1254 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Ashuganj Thermal Power Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1254 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      c)      , 1982, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the BorrL-7er has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of part of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund for
International Development a loan (hereinafter called the OPEC
Fund Loan) in an amount of $30,000,000 equivalent to assist in
fInancing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund for Interna-
tional Development;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt
fUr Wicderaufbau, an agency of the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany, a grant (hereinafter called the KfW Grant)
in an amount of 115,000,000 Deutsche Marks equivalent to assist
in financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau;
(D)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian Devel-
opment Bank a loan (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) in an amount
of $30,600,000 equivalent to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Asian Development Bank; and
(E)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development a loan (hereinafter called the
Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount of $35,000,000 equivalent to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development; and


﻿-2-
(F) the Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (hereinafter called BPDB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to BPDB the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and BPDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to thic Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings theruin set forth and the following      addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BPDB" means the Bangladesh Power Development Board
established by President's Order No. 59 of 1972 (as amended to
the date of this Agreement);
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BPDB of even date    herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between Lhe Borrower and BPDB pursuant to Section


﻿-3-
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to eighty two million and seven hundred fthousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of.the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a dat, sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without


﻿-4-
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
tcr the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service and commitment charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1992, and ending April 1,
2032, each installment to and including the insta].ment payable
on April 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such piincipal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause BPDB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BPDB to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
BPDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between


﻿-5-
the Borrower and BPDB under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall include those set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses  of  the  Credit  and, except as     the Association   shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all appropriate
action, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that gas sup-
plies are at all times adequate for the efficient operation of
the Ashuganj power plant.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as may
be necessary on its part (including, but without limitation, all
necessary authorizations) to enable BPDB:
(a) to implement the program for the improvements in BPDB's
organization and management and the reduction of system losses
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement;
(b)  to effect such adjustments in tariffs as shall be
necessary to comply with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement;
and
(c) to maintain the debt/equit- ratio stipulated by Section
4.05 (a) of the Project Agreement, by the provision of equity
contributions to BPDB.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause all its departments and agencies t gradually
settle, but not later than December 31, 1983, all their debts to
BPDB; and
(b)   ensure that at any time the aggregate amount due to
BPDB in respect of electricity supplied by BPDB to the Borrower's
departments and agencies shall not exceed 20% of the respective
department's or agency's annual average electricity consumption.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1984
(i) carry out a study, under terms of reference and with the
assistance of consultants satisfactory co the Association, of the
bulk and retail tariffs to be applied in the power sector taking
into account the long-run marginal cost of supplying electricity
and other financial consideratious, and (ii) furnish to the
Association the findings and recommendations of such study; and
(b) by July 1, 1985 or such later date as the Association may
agree, implement the tariff structure and such other recommenda-
tions of said study as the Borrower and the Association shall
have agreed.
ARTICLE IV
Rewedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  BPDB shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BPDB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) President's Order No 59 of 1972 establishing BPDB shall
have been   amende., suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of BPDB to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BPDB or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been sus-


﻿-7-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
i' the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement, and (B) ade-
quate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or BPDB from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of BPDB under
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gener-
al Conditions, the following additional events are specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:


﻿-8-
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BPDB;
(b)   the first phase of the program for the reduction of
system losses and for the improvement of billing procedures
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of the Project Agreement has been
implemented;
(c)   the program for the improvement of collection proce-
dures referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the Project Agreement
has been furnished to the Association;
(d)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
loan agreements referred to hereunder (other than the effective-
ness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled:
(i) the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement,
(ii) the ADB Loan Agreement, and
(iii) the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement;
(e)   the KfW Grant Agreement has been duly executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau; and
(f) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BPDB, and is legally binding upon BPDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)    that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BPDB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BPDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date           ev       1      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and the provisions of


﻿-9-
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                        Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        65886 SETU BJ
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿101
- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Supply and instal-         75,290,000       100% of foreign
lation of  two                             expenditures,
boilers (including                         100% of local ex-
related heat cycle,                        penditures (ex-
auxiliary equip-                           factory) and 42%
ment, electrical                           of other local
part, instrumenta-                         expenditures
tion and control,
water treatment
and ancillary cool-
ing water, as well
as design of related
civil works)
(2) Consultants' services       1,080,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Unallocated                 6,330,000
TOTAL         82,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop the
electric power sector and consists of:
Part A:   The expansion of the Ashuganj steam power plant through
the installation of two natural gas fired units with a
capacity of 150 megawatts each, including boilers and
ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment.
Part B:   The construction of a 230 kilovolt double circuit
transmission   line  between   Ashuganj  and   Ghorasal,
including a 230/132 kilovolt substation.
Part C:   The provision of a simulator for BPDB staff training in
the operation of steam power plants.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and BPDB
Amount                          SDR 82,700,00 equivalent
Repayment period                25 years
Grace period                    5 years on the principal
Interest rate                   11.5% per annum
Foreign Exchange risk           to be borne by BPDB


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


