Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE   COPY                                  Report No. P-3095-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
THE PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (ANTEL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 17, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = NUR$9.51
NUR$1.00 = US$0.105
NUR$1,000,000 = US$105,152
(September 1980)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS IN THE REPORT
ANTEL            - Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones--an
autonomous entity responsible for the operation of
all local, national and international telecommunications
services.
SEPLACODI        -  Secretaria de Planeamiento, Coordinacion y Difusion--
a Government entity responsible for public sector
analysis and technical assistance on economic and
financial matters and in planning of public sector
activities.
UTE              -  Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
Electricas--a Government power supply company that
before ANTEL's creation was also responsible for
public telecommunications service.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL)
Guarantor:       Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:          US$40.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayment in 15 years including three years of grace
at interest of 9.6 percent per annum. The amortization
schedule may be skewed to allow for the private bank
loan if co-financing arrangements materialize (see
paragraph 42).
Project
Description:   Except for a telephone component in a loan to UTE in 1950
the proposed project would be the first Bank supported effort
to strengthen Uruguay's telecommunications system. Its insti-
tutional and financial aspects would consist of the design and
implementation of an adequate organizational structure, assis-
tance in the development of satisfactory employment conditions,
especially competitive salaries and wages, as well as re-
structuring tariffs. The physical components are mainly aimed
at extending and improving local telephone service in Montevideo,
as well as national long distance and international services.
Benefits
and Risk:      The project would replace a large part of antiquated and fault
prone plant in Montevideo and meet part of the outstanding appli-
cations for service and new demand expected to arise during the
program period. Congestion on long distance service will be
greatly reduced and availability and quality of international
services will be substantially improved. Thus, through invest-
ments in key infrastructure the project would improve produc-
tivity, accelerate development of the productive sectors and
help promote the integration of the economy with overseas
markets. Institutional improvements in ANTEL are expected
to assist Uruguay in increasing the efficiency of the sector
and enabling it to undertake substantially larger investment
requirements to adequately meet the expanding demand for
telecommunications services. The risks of the project are
largely concentrated on the institution building in that the
improvements foreseen may not be fully achieved. There are
also minor risks connected with the physical implementation,
limited mainly to the possibility of delayed physical implemen-
tation due to unforeseen circumstances. Since this project
comprises a relatively large number of partly independent
activities, delay in the completion of a few works would not
generally prevent the use of other newly created assets.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ (million)
Local Foreign Total
Local Facilities
Exchange Equipment                             3.1      69.5    72.6
Cables                                        16.4      24.8    41.2
Telephones                                     0.7       3.3     4.0
Call Office Sets                               0.1       0.9      1.0
Subtotal                                    20.3      98.5   118.8
Long Distance Facilities
National Transmission                           -        4.3     4.3
Earth Satellite Station                        0.2       5.9      6.1
Switching Equipment                             -        2.3     2.3
Subtotal                                     0.2      12.5    12.7
Buildings                                        4.2        -       4.2
Consultants                                      0.3       1.3      1.6
Base Cost                                   25.0    112.3   137.3
Contingencies
Physical                                       1.0        -       1.0
Price                                         44.1      22.4    66.5
Total Project Cost 1/                           70.1    134.7   204.8
1/   ANTEL is exempt from payment of customs duties and taxes.
Financing Plan                                       Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
World Bank                                        -       40.0    40.0
Commercial cofinancing or Government              -       40.0    40.0
funding
ANTEL                                           70.1      54.7   124.8
Total                                      70.1    134.7   204.8
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year           1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
---(US$ Million Equivalent)--
Annual                      6.5   9.4  11.8   8.9   3.4
Cumulative                  6.5  15.9  27.7  36.6  40.0
Rate of Return:      At least 30 percent.
Appraisal Report:   No. 3237-UR, dated June 17, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (ANTEL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to ANTEL with the guarantee of the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the
equivalent of US$40 million to help finance the proposed telecommunications
project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at an interest of 9.6 percent. The amortization schedule may be skewed to
allow for a private bank loan if co-financing arrangements materialize (see
paragraph 42).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (No. 2706-UR) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1980. An economic mission visited the country in September
and October 1980 to review general economic developments, with particular
emphasis on the agricultural and financial sectors. Its report will be
distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The following paragraphs
summarize the mission's basic findings. A summary of the Country Basic Data
is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption and high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took
the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a sus-
tained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and livestock
sector mainly into consumption by the urban population. Industrial sector
development, strongly stimulated by shortages of consumer goods during World
War II, was fostered through a deliberate import substitution and protection
policy during the immediate post-war era. However, economic growth faltered
as agricultural production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean
War. Moreover, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small
domestic market were quickly exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose
sharply. Government policies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption
levels resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious
misallocation of resources. During the early 1970s, political and social un-
rest marked by urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings,
investment and any initiative to expand output and exports.



- I -
4.        Uruguay had instituted comprehensive welfare legislation in the
1920s when the resources that could be obtained from the livestock sector
seemed inexhaustible. Progressive legislation covering such areas as social
security retirement and survivors' pensions, job security, unemployment com-
pensation, free health and education services provided mechanisms for redis-
tributing income. Uruguay was thus able to achieve early a high level of
social progress as evidenced by an income distribution pattern that compares
favorably with that of many developed countries. Although Uruguay experienced
a drop in per capita income during the 1960s and early 1970s, the country has
attained levels that are comparable to those of some developed countries and
above those of most developing countries in health (life expectancy at birth
of 71 years), education (94% literacy rate), and nutrition (per capita intake
of protein of 87 grams per day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's re-
sources. Larger transfers from the Central Government were needed to provide
decreasing real benefits to a growing number of people. In addition to the
financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions required
by the system from employers increased the cost of labor. This high cost,
coupled with incentives to the use of capital inherent in the import sub-
stitution strategy, acted as a brake on the creation of employment. Moreover,
inefficient administration resulted in an inadequate level of real benefits,
and, together with the advanced age structure of the population, resulted in
a large number of people working past retirement age (though since retirement
was permitted at the age of 55, this was not necessarily a great burden),
further limiting employment opportunities for the groups entering the labor
force, many of whom emigrated to neighboring countries.
6.        Furthermore, during the quarter century extending from the end of
World War II until the early 1970s, high tariff protection and an overvalued
exchange rate fostered an industrial sector primarily geared towards the
domestic market. The accompanying distortions in resource allocation created
an economic environment which was not propitious to the development of export-
oriented manufacturing industries. The subsidies implicit in the above
policies also made possible the survival of inefficient import-competing
enterprises. The difficulty, in many cases, of achieving economies of scale
with a relatively small domestic market was also a contributing factor to the
sector's inefficiency. Furthermore, the import substitution policy created a
bias against agriculture by making the domestic terms of trade unfavorable to
it and by discouraging traditional exports through an overvalued exchange
rate. The combined effect of these factors was reflected in unfavorable trends
in the external sector of the economy. By 1958, the nominal level of Uruguay's
total exports was similar to that achieved in the 1940s (around US$155 million),
while the import level had increased considerably (from an average of about
US$79 million in 1942-46 to US$204 million in 1957-61), and the share of
imported goods in manufacturing output had also increased (from 39% to 50%).
Far from achieving economic autonomy, the import-substitution strategy deepened
the dependence of Uruguay, and in particular that of its industrial sector, on
imported goods.



- 3 -
7.         The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase in
the price of imported oil (Uruguay imports 100% of its oil needs), substantial
increases in other import prices, and the closing of the European Economic
Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the balance of
payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and an acceler-
ation of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in mid-1974 deter-
mined that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems would
require a turning away from the inward-looking policies of the past toward a
strategy of greater integration with the world economy. The basic aim of this
new development strategy was to improve resource allocation and productive
efficiency by tying domestic monetary liquidity, prices and interest rates
more closely to changing conditions in international capital and trade markets.
8.         The achievement of these objectives required the elimination of
chronic fiscal deficits, a reduction in the growth of net domestic Central
Bank credit, financial and trade liberalization, and a more stable, predictable
exchange rate policy. Initial efforts focussed on closing the fiscal gap,
deregulating financial and exchange markets, promoting exports, and ending
domestic price controls. Tax rates were raised, and the incidence of tax
evasion reduced; the dual exchange markets were unified, and restrictions
on most foreign exchange transactions eliminated; interest rates ceilings
were raised and then abolished along with the provision of subsidized export
credits. The monetary authorities abolished all banking reserve requirements,
open market operations, and rediscount facilities, on the grounds that they
were ineffective as policy tools. Tight controls were imposed instead on the
expansion of net domestic monetary assets, while the overall money supply was
permitted to vary "passively" as determined by the domestic demand for money.
Exports were assisted by substantial increases in tax credits (reintegros) and
by the abolition of quantitative and financial controls on imports of raw
materials and capital goods. Price ceilings and marketing controls on many
domestic products were lifted or eased.
9.         The economy responded positively to this change of direction.
Spurred by a nearly 14% real annual increase in domestic investment, it
experienced the first period of sustained growth since the early, 950s,
expanding by 4.4% annually, or 3.5% in per capita terms.  The 8/,4% rate
achieved in 1979 was the highest in nearly 35 years.  Although real public
and private sector wages appear to have declined, this declwge was offset by a
more-than-6% annual growth of total employment (29% cumulatively between 1975
and 1979), resulting in a near-constant total wage bill. However, because of
a rapid expansion of the labor force participation rate, overall unemployment
showed little net change, rising from 8.1% in early 1975 to 13.0% in late 1976
before declining once again to 8.1% by the latter half of 1979. The accelera-
tion in the growth of domestic incomes, the marked reduction in the growth of
domestic monetary assets, and the removal of financial controls were followed
by rapid increases in domestic interest rates and net inflows of foreign
capital averaging 4.4% of GDP during the 1975-79 period (compared with 0.8%
during the preceding five years). The expanding supply of foreign exchange
financed both a rapid growth of imports--mainly for investment--and a rapid



- 4 -
accumulation of official reserves. Annual merchandise export growth in excess
of 8% provided a steadily expanding base of foreign exchange earnings for the
servicing of Uruguay's external debt; the total (public and private) debt
service ratio declined from 40% of merchandise exports in the early and
mid-1970s to under 16% in 1979.
10.        Having achieved considerable progress in resolving the country's
urgent growth and balance-of-payments problems, policymakers increasingly
shifted their attention in late 1978 to the unresolved issue of domestic price
stability. Although lower than the inflation levels reached in the early
1970s, prices had continued to rise rapidly between 1975 and 1978 (by roughly
50% annually). Convinced that lower rates of inflation could be achieved and
the restructuring of the domestic economy accelerated by promoting convergence
between international and domestic tradeable goods prices and interest rates,
the authorities announced new measures to reduce domestic tariff protection
and slow the rate of exchange devaluation. A five-year program of tariff
reforms was decreed, including reductions in tariffs from a maximum of 116%
in 1979 to a single, across-the-board rate of 35% by 1985, the elimination of
import reference prices and a consolidation of the tariff administration
machinery into a single agency.  At the same time, a policy of pre-announcing
exchange rate devaluations over a six-to-nine month period was initiated.
11.        By early 1981, these new policies had been in force for slightly
over two years. With respect to the trade reform measures, the maximum tariff
rate had been reduced to 90%. Most tariffs had been grouped around two basic
levels--53% on imports competing with domestic manufactures and 35% on imports
of capital goods, intermediate imports, various agricultural staples, and
manufactures not produced locally. However, no progress had been achieved
in reducing import reference prices, which significantly raise the effective
nominal surcharges. Nor had the system of trade administration, which is
shared among at least four separate agencies, been consolidated. As for the
exchange rate, the monthly devaluation rate has been reduced from 2.5% during
the last quarter of 1978 to 1.2% during the quarter ending in May 1981.
According to the schedule of pre-announcements, the 1.2% monthly rate will
hold through the end of 1981.
Recent Economic Performance
12.       Despite an initial setback in the drive to reduce inflation, as
the rate of price increases nearly doubled to 83% in 1979, impressive progress
was achieved in 1980 and early 1981. By the end of April 1981, consumer price
inflation on a 12-month basis had declined to 37%. Inflation for the year
1981 is expected to fall to roughly 30%, which would represent the lowest
rate achieved in the last 11 years. Output and employment trends also continued
their favorable course. GDP at factor prices grew by 4.5% in 1980 and may
show a broadly similar growth rate in 1981. Unemployment declined from 8.1%
in the second half of 1979 to 6.7% in the same period of 1980. Preliminary
data indicate a further decline to 5.5% as of the end of April 1981. The
secular decline in real wages was apparently halted. Real public and private
sector wages are estimated to have improved by approximately 1% in 1980.
The balance of payments showed an overall surplus of US$138 million in 1980



with a capital account surplus of US$654 million more than offsetting a
current account deficit of US$516 million. High domestic interest rates on
peso-denominated assets continued to attract non-resident lenders with spreads
ranging from 9-12% over comparable international rates after adjustment for
exchange rate devaluation. Volume exports expanded by nearly 9%, paced by the
strong performance of primary product exports, principally meat (51%), wool
(92%) and fish (39%). However, non-traditional exports (mainly processed,
agriculturally-based goods) declined by nearly 9%, reflecting a reduction in
industrial export profitability resulting from increases in local costs over
the past five years not fully compensated by tax subsidies, devaluations of
the peso, or changes in international prices. Volume imports rose a negli-
gible 2.8% in 1981 as sharp increases in capital goods (42.4%) and consumer
imports (45.9%) were offset by a decline in imports of intermediate inputs
(-9.1%). Petroleum imports remained virtually unchanged from 1979.
13.       The balance of payment outlook for 1981 is for a reduction in net
capital inflows to around US$425 million reflecting: the impact of a narrowing
of the spreads prevailing between foreign and domestc deposit interest rates
following the introduction of forward exchange rate guarantees by the Central
Bank in March 1981; a somewhat reduced domestic demand for foreign currency-
denominated credits, which, due to the decline in inflation, are now carrying
real positive interest rates (on the order of 5%) for the first time since
1978; and the possible impact of recent economic measures in Argentina. The
current account deficit is projected to contract to roughly US$400 million, or
3.4% of GDP compared with 5.3% in 1980. Merchandise exports are projected to
grow by 24% in volume terms (actual exports were up 63% during the first
quarter of 1981 over the same quarter in 1980), and imports by slightly more
than 5%. The public debt service ratio, which increased only slightly to
10.7% in 1980, should rise somewhat more sharply in 1981 to around 17% as
grace periods expire on the heavy volume of loans committed in recent years.
The projected reserve accumulation of US$34 million, although modest relative
to the accumulations of recent years, would be sufficient to maintain reserve
coverage (including gold valued at market prices) at roughly 12 months of
imports (compared with nearly 17 months in 1980).
Medium and Long-term Prospects
14.       The continued overall strength of the economy and progress in
reducing inflation have encouraged the authorities to maintain basically
intact their price stabilization approach, under which trade and exchange rate
policies have tended to restrain the rise of prices in the domestic tradeable
goods sector, particularly since the end of 1979, while government public
sector wage and utility tariff policies have helped curb inflation in the
prices of non-tradeable goods. Nevertheless, there is some concern about the
impact of the adjustment process on relative prices within the group of
tradeable products, specifically because the internal prices of import-competing
products have been rising nearly 70% faster during the 1975-80 period than the
prices of export-oriented production. This reflected a shift in internal
demand toward import-competing goods for which income elasticities were
relatively high. As a result, output and employment in these industries
have expanded roughly twice as fast as in export-oriented industries. Recently,



the Government has sought to counter this tendency via the introduction of new
measures designed to raise the internal prices of domestic exportables and
lower their costs of production. Specifically, the list of exports eligible
for tax rebates was expanded to cover approximately 50 previously ineligible
products, and new credits at subsidized interest rates and loan guarantees
from the Central Bank were extended to livestock producers, whose products
account directly or indirectly for roughly half of total exports, as part of a
debt-refinancing package. Complementary steps were taken to curb the prices
of import-competing production, including the implementation in December 1980
of the second stage of the six-year tariff reduction program and a follow-up
consolidation in March 1981 of tariffs on most imports competing directly with
national production at the 53% level, a measure which effectively reduced
tariffs for most of these goods.
15.       These measures appear to have had an immediate impact on the volume of
exports, which rose 62% in the first quarter of 1981 compared with 5% annually
in the 1979-80 period. Similarly, in the import-competing sector, there
are growing signs of a convergence between domestic and international prices,
as competition from imports has coincided with a marked slowdown in the
rate of price increases for basic products such as paper, plastics, automobiles,
electric appliances, and other consumer goods.
16.       The major changes in the direction of economic policy undertaken in
recent years augur well for the long-run development of the Uruguayan economy.
The projections summarized below assume that the Government will maintain its
liberal financial and exchange market policies, continue to reduce barriers to
international trade, observe cautious fiscal and monetary policies, promote
further structural reforms in public sector administraticn, and encourage the
modernization of the productive sector. Under such a policy framework, GDP
could grow by about 5% a year during 1981-84, with gross domestic investment
averaging roughly 19% of GDP, and the resource gap 1%. Since population is
projected to grow by 0.9% per year, per capita GDP growth would be a highly
satisfactory 4% per annum. The share, of public sector investment is projected
to remain steady at around 6.7% of GDP, a level adequate to address the
economy's most urgent infrastructural needs. However, the share of private
sector investment would rise from 7.9% of GDP during 1976-79 to 12.4% during
1981-84, as domestic producers adapt their production to the planned opening
of the economy. Because this adaptation will require the the reduction or
outright abandonment of uncompetitive lines of production, and a consequent
scrapping of part of the country's capital stock, the capital-output ratio
is assumed to rise slightly from 3.4 to 3.8.
17.       To meet these higher investment requirements, the real growth of
capital goods imports would need to average nearly 8.5% annually. On the
other hand, petroleum prices and the partial replacement of existing thermo-
electric generation capacity with power from the nearly-completed Salto Grande
and Palmar hydro-electric projects can be expected to limit the volume growth
of fuel imports to about 3% yearly. Consumer goods imports should expand
broadly in line with the projected 3.3% annual growth of private consumption.



On the basis of these assumptions, overall imports in constant prices would
grow by slightly more than 5% annually. Exports, on the other hand, could
grow by over 10% annually. Prospects for primary product exports such as
beef, wool, fish and rice appear particularly favorable. The current account
deficit is expected to average nearly US$400 million. Gross capital require-
ments to finance this deficit, meet expected repayment obligations on medium
and long-term debt and accumulate a modest amount of international reserves
are projected at around US$640 million annuallv, of which approximately
one-quarter would derive from new foreign direct investment, one-third from
gross publicly-guaranteed medium and long-term borrowing and the remaining
two-fifths from portfolio investment, the latter deriving mainly from projected
increases in foreign-currency-denominated deposit claims against the domestic
banking system. The debt service burden on medium and long-term debt (including
non-guaranteed obligations), although projected to rise from 10.7% in 1980 to
around 18% in 1984, will remain moderate relative to the average 35-40% levels
reached in the decade of the 1970s, leaving the country with considerable
flexibility to increase public borrowing in the event portfolio and direct
foreign investments fall short of expectations. Thus, barring any reversal in
the direction of current policies, Uruguay should be poised for a period of
steady growth, accompanied by moderate-to-low levels of inflation and a sound
external payments position. As of April 30, 1981, the Bank held US$235.9 million
of long-term debt in Uruguay, of which US$164.6 million was undisbursed,
US$71.3 million disbursed. The Bank's share of total Uruguayan indebtedness,
disbursed and undisbursed, was 10.9% as of the end of 1980. It is anticipated
that this share will decrease over the next several years in light of both an
anticipated slowdown in the rate of new Uruguayan borrowing from the Bank and
the growing role of private capital in meeting Uruguay's external borrowing
needs. Under these circumstances, Uruguay would remain creditworthy for the
amounts of external capital required to modernize its capital stock and achieve
sustained economic progress.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
18.       To date, Uruguay has received US$357.2 million (net of cancellations)
in Bank loans. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance to Uruguay (19 loans in
total) has been for power (29%), transport (27%) and livestock (27%), industry
(14%) as well as vocational training and technological development (3%).
IFC has made four investments in Uruguay: in Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos
S.A. (US$3.8 million) to introduce radial tire production, increase tire
manufacturing capacity and improve operating efficiency; in Acodyke Supergas
S.A. (US$950,000) to help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant;
in Astra Pesquerias Uruguayas, S.A. (US$4.5 million in loans and up to
US$0.9 million in equity) to help finance an integrated fishing and processing
project; and in Sur Invest Corporation (US$10 million in loans and US$667,000
in equity) to assist this newly established casa bancaria in funding its
leasing operations. Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans as of April 30,
1981 and IFC investments as of April 30, 1981, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.



- 8 -
19.       In FY81, a loan of US$30.0 million was approved in December for a
Second Industrial Credit Project. In addition to the proposed project, work
is underway on a highway project for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next year.
20.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the
Government in carrying out its strategy for putting the economy on a path
of sustained growth. More specifically, the objectives of the Bank's program
are to: (i) foster productive activities by promoting the expansion and
diversification of export earnings; (ii) help strengthen the country's
sectoral policies and public sector institutions; (iii) improve and promote
the integration of the economy with the large markets of neighboring Argentina
and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets; and (iv) assist the country to
develop policies and programs to diversify its sources of energy.
21.       The proposed project is designed as is Bank lending for power and
transport to support the Government efforts to rehabilitate and modernize
the country's key infrastructure, in particular to assist Uruguay's efforts
to integrate with its neighbors (Brazil and Argentina) and its other major
trading partners. Lending for energy projects including power is also aimed
at helping the country meet its growing energy demands, while increasing the
reliance on local energy sources and providing institutional assistance to the
sector. Lending for industry is designed to help improve the international
competitiveness of industrial and tourism enterprises, expand nontraditional
exports, and support the Government's tariff reduction program by contributing
financial resources and institutional assistance. Lending for agriculture is
designed to continue supporting increased production in the livestock subsector
for exports and helping the Government to gradually place greater emphasis on
expanding crop production, while encouraging the Government to follow agri-
cultural marketing policies responsive to the free operation of market forces.
Lending for education would provide needed investments in the sector, especially
at the secondary level, and help make it more responsive to long-term manpower
requirements of the economy.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
The Current Situation and Investment Requirements
22.       Uruguay has over 9 telephones per hundred population--a high level
by Latin American standards. About 76% of main lines are installed in Mon-
tevideo. Service is generally unreliable and of poor quality. Local tele-
phone service in Montevideo in particular is severely congested. About half
the local call attempts fail mainly because of the high busy hour calling rate
per line resulting from insufficient lines installed, inadequate traffic-
handling equipment at the exchanges, and a high failure rate of both switching
and cable plant (reflecting the large quantity of very old material in use, as
well as poor maintenance). Service breakdown is particularly severe and
widespread during the heavy rainy season. As regards long-distance services,



- 9 -
the situation is better though far from adequate; approximately 80% of requested
call attempts succeed. However, two-thirds of these calls are still handled
manually with an average delay of one-and-one-half hours, and are often of poor
quality, with fairly common incidence of noise, cross-talk, and interruption.
The international service is also unsatisfactory and calls are completed with
long delays. In the interior of the country, overall quality and reliability
of telephone service are acceptable, but additional investments are required
to help meet unsatisfied demand.
23.       There is at present a large unmet demand tor telecommunication
services in Uruguay, reflecting sustained underinvestment over the last
decade. The waiting list of 63,000 for new telephone lines, including some
unmet applications dating as far back as nine years, is an indication of the
effort that the operating entity (ANTEL) has to make to even come close to
meeting the demands of the economy. The telex service has 900 subscribers and
a waiting list of 400. Over the years 1981-85, investment requirements
stemming mostly from replacement and additional telephone switching equipment
for Montevideo, as well as inland and international telephone, telegraph and
telex facilities add up to some US$303 million. This investment program
has been worked out with the assistance of foreign consultants and the
Bank, and is based on rather conservative demand estimates. These estimates
do not include suitable allowance for unreported current demand (which is
likely to become evident as soon as telecommunication services improve), for
the increased telephone needs of the reactivated economy (particularly its
communications intensive tertiary sectors) and for communication requirements
expected to develop in new directions--e.g., to establish data facilities for
the interconnection of and distance access to computers as required in modern
banking, insurance, wholesale trade and other business activities. However,
for the present the institutional constraints facing the sector are such that
an even larger investment effort would in all likelihood not be feasible.
Organization
24.       The Ministry of National Defense is responsible for the overall
supervision and control of the telecommunications sector, which mainly com-
prises Administracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL), a decentralized
state-owned public utility. ANTEL has the monopoly for the provision of all
public national and international telecommunications services in Uruguay. It
is also responsible for the allocation and control of the radio spectrum, and
is authorized to license and control the operation of private telecommunica-
tions services (where ANTEL cannot provide such services). Radio and televi-
sion broadcasting stations are licensed by executive decree at the recommenda-
tion of ANTEL. Ship-to-shore services are provided by ANTEL, and are linked
to Uruguay's telecommunications network. Until December 31, 1980 two subsi-
diaries of US companies (International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and
Western Union International) operated some international telegraph and telex
services. ANTEL has taken over the operation of these services on January 1,
1981 on the expiry of the franchises granted to these two companies. ANTEL's



- 10 -
five-year investment programs, annual operation budget, tariffs, and organiza-
tion structure and authorized posts are approved by executive decree at the
recommendation of Secretaria de Planeamiento, Coordinacion y Difusion
(SEPLACODI).
25.       Domestic manufacture of telecommunications equipment and materials
in Uruguay is limited mainly to items for subscriber installations. Thus,
the bulk of the sector's requirements over the coming years will have to be
met through imported materials and equipment.
Usage of Service
26.       In Montevideo, nonresidential main lines, comprising 22 percent
of the total main telephone lines, originate about 40 percent of all calls
and generate about 48 percent of ANTEL's telephone revenue. Some 43 percent
of calls from residential main lines are made to offices and professionals
partly for business-related purposes. Furthermore, an unquantified proportion
of calls among residences are likely to be for business purposes to mitigate
to some extent the effects of traffic congestion prevailing during office
hours. Overall, about 60 percent of all calls made in Montevideo relate
directly to the productive and distribution activities of the economy, and
these account for about 70 percent of ANTEL's telephone revenues. Although
by 1985 the proportion of nonresidential main lines is expected to be similar
to what it is at present, the proportions of calls and revenues generated by
them are likely to increase once office-hour congestion is reduced. The
already high total proportion of telephone calls and revenues which relate
directly to economic production and distribution functions is therefore
expected to increase even further. Based on the distribution of current
unmet residential main line applications in Montevideo, it can be expected
that about 79 percent of new residential main lines will be provided in areas
of low and lower-middle socioeconomic level, 15 percent in upper-middle and
6 percent in high-income residential areas.
Sector Objectives and Constraints
27.       The legislation whereby ANTEL was established in 1974 explicitly
recognized telecommunications services to be essential. In a cross-sectoral
review of the country's progress and programs, the Government, in 1978,
assigned a high priority to expanding telecommunications services as required
to meet the needs of all other sectors, and improving quality through the
substitution of aging plant. In this context, ANTEL's efforts until 1985
focus on (a) major rehabilitation and expansion of local telephone service in
Montevideo, thereby attempting to greatly increase the reliability and quality
of service to present subscribers while meeting most of the current and
forecast expressed demand; (b) continued modernization of the long distance
network, and automatization and expansion of telephone operations in the
interior, to decongest and expedite national services; (c) bring international
services rapidly up to modern standards; and (d) improve ANTEL's organization
and management towards becoming a viable and efficient utility capable of
undertaking increasingly large development efforts. Attention is also given
to expanding telex facilities to meet all demand in areas currently served,
and extend telex service to new areas of the interior.



- 11 -
28.        ANTEL's 1981-85 investment program will bring the total number of
telephones in operation in Uruguay by end 1985 to about 476,300, or some 16
telephones per 100 population (compared with 10.7 in 1979). Over this period,
the number of main lines will increase at 10.0 percent per annum, well above
the 2.7 percent per annum averaged over 1971-79. By end 1985 almost all of
the demand for main lines which is currently forecast is expected to be met,
against 78 percent at end 1980. All services will improve considerably,
especially in Montevideo (where most of the expansion will take place), and
international service in particular will do so significantly. However, as
service improves and expands at a high rate relative to Uruguay's past achieve-
ments, actual main lines demand and traffic are likely to outpace forecasts;
ANTEL intends to monitor the situation and take into consideration the demand
through 1983 when preparing the 1986-90 investment program in 1984.
29.        As a branch of the former Usinas y Telefonos del Estado, now
Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas (UTE), telephone
services in Uruguay reached a fairly advanced stage of development in the mid
1930s. However, inadequate sector organization, shortage of capital, import
restrictions and other problems (many reflecting the country's general economic
difficulties) resulted in stagnation and deterioration of these services
especially from the mid 1950s and during the 1960s. Furthermore, in the early
1970s, UTE experienced a deterioration of managerial and financial performance
without the Government taking action to arrest it; in fact, the lack of gov-
ernment action to adjust tariffs on a timely basis was to a large extent
responsible for the poor financial results. These developments were largely
related to the severe social conflict and general economic dislocation which
affected the country until 1975. A Project Performance Audit (Doc. Sec. M
78-867, dated November 29, 1978) generally concurs in the foregoing evaluation
of UTE's performance under the Fourth Power Loan to UTE (Loan 712-UR) which
was executed in 1970-75. Following the setting up of ANTEL as a separate
entity apart from UTE in 1974, and a succession of major changes in the
country's economic policies, telecommunications operations have been gradually
developing administrative autonomy, as well as improved relations with regula-
tory entities in Government, as needed to run along sound utility principles.
Likewise, until recently because of low telecommunications tariffs which had
deteriorated since 1975, and the failure of public sector entities to pay
their bills, ANTEL was unable to generate internally an adequate proportion
of the funds needed for expansion and service improvement. Although progress
regarding both sector relationships and finances needs to be pursued (see
paragraph 49), ANTEL's development efforts will, once necessary financing has
been secured, be mainly constrained by major inadequacies in its own organi-
zation, management and staffing.
30.        ANTEL's organization and management is inappropriate, largely be-
cause the separation of this entity from the power company in 1975, as agreed
to under the Bank-financed Power IV loan, was not suitably followed up by an
adequate effort in the development of the telecommunications operating entity.
More importantly, however, ANTEL reflects piecemeal attempts to put together
telegraph, telephone and related services that were formerly the responsibili-
ties of scattered government entities, without an organic structure and



- 12 -
suitable definition of duties and responsibilities at various levels of the
organization. Lines of authority are not clearly established and procedures
are not formally prescribed. However, in 1980, at the Bank's suggestion,
day-to-day management functions were separated from policy and top management
responsibilities, and for the first time vested in a general manager appointed
by Government at the recommendation of ANTEL's Board; the general manager has
had ample experience in the sector. ANTEL's regulations have been modified in
1980 in a way which permits the delegation of authority necessary for efficient
management to the general manager. In practice, the reassignment of responsi-
bilities has proceeded at a good pace, and is likely to be further accelerated
as needed to take over functions heretofore carried out by ANTEL's only engineer
on the Board, who has decided to leave ANTEL. Further, with the present salary
structure, ANTEL has been unable to attract and retain experienced technicians.
There is thus an urgent need to establish a staffing plan with specific
recruitment targets for key professionals, associated with a salary increase
program that will enable the implementation of the plan, while the overstaffing
situation is redressed through attrition (see paragraph 46).
Assistance by IDB and World Bank
31.       In 1975 the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) made a loan to
Uruguay to be onlent to ANTEL to finance telephone exchanges in Montevideo
(10,000 main lines), micro-wave systems, and marine communication systems.
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$48 million; US$23 million
to be financed by IDB and US$25 million by ANTEL. The loan agreement was
signed in November 1975 but withdrawals were not authorized until two years
later because of delays by ANTEL in meeting conditions for disbursement.
Particularly, the split between ANTEL and UTE (one of the conditions of
disbursement) was delayed beyond the timetable agreed. An inventory of the
assets was necessary to proceed with the split-up. However, there was
considerable delay before ANTEL and IDB reached agreement on the necessary
qualifications of the personnel to be hired to carry out the inventory.
The inventory was finally made at the end of 1977. At present only some
legal formalities are in the process of being completed to accomplish full
separation. In order to monitor the final separation, the draft Loan Agree-
ment (Section 5.08) contains obligations of ANTEL which are cross-referenced
to the provisions in the Loan Agreement for the Fifth Power Project of
March 6, 1980 (Ln. 1779-UR) containing a specific timetable for the
separation.
32.       After initial delays in procurement, the IDB project is progressing
satisfactorily. Over half the IDB loan has been disbursed. ANTEL, however,
has been unable to comply with loan conditions regarding improvement of its
organization and collection of bills from the Government, and achievement of
a reasonable rate of return (defined in the loan agreement as 8% on ANTEL's
average revalued net fixed assets in operation plus current assets). With
regard to the first condition, ANTEL sought to carry out the necessary improve-
ments with its own personnel rather than hire consultants but insufficient
results were attained. In the second case, little progress has been made
because of failure to agree with the Government on the amounts owed. Due to



- 13 -
delays in commissioning of long distance equipment, which have a high revenue
earning capacity, IDB and ANTEL agreed to postpone the application of the rate
of return covenant until 180 days after the provisional acceptance of the
microwave systems financed under the IDB project. However, ANTEL and the
Government are currently in the process of negotiations with IDB concerning
the applicability of the rate of return covenant in view of the Government's
present reservations with respect to this type of covenant.
33.       The World Bank financed a telephone component in a 1950 power loan
to UTE. A covenant of the 1970 Fourth Power Loan (Ln. 712-UR) required UTE
to reach a 10% rate of return on its telecommunications activities (on net
fixed assets plus a provision for working capital) but this was not complied
with because the Government did not approve tariff revision requests by UTE.
The Bank financed only power-related items under this loan.
34.       The project proposed for Bank financing, which focuses on the
improvement and expansion of telephone service in Montevideo and on the
improvement of long distance and international facilities, is in line with
the Bank's current lending strategy in Uruguay centered on supporting the
directly productive sectors of the economy and the infrastructure required for
their efficient operation and linkages to assist economic integration with
other countries, especially the major trading partners. In the proposed
project, an effort will be made to deal with the institutional and financial
weaknesses encountered in the IDB loan to ANTEL and earlier Bank projects with
UTE through consultant assistance and appropriate covenants in the loan
documents, and followed up by Bank supervision.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       ANTEL's project, which is part of the 1981-85 telecommunication
investment program, aims to improve the quality and reliability of service by
large-scale replacement of outworn and obsolete switching equipment and cable
plant, and to extend services by connecting about 73,000 additional main lines
(to the existing about 221,000). The project includes only new investment
components which will be initiated and completed in 1981-85, while the program
(which ANTEL has undertaken to carry out and not to modify substantially
without Bank concurrence (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement)) also
contains a number of carry-over investments, including some from the IDB
project and various routine investments. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report, First Telecommunication Project" (No. 3237-UR, dated June 17, 1981)
is being distributed separately. A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the
front of this report. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex
III. The project was identified in October 1979 as a part of ANTEL's invest-
ment program for 1981-85 on which preparatory work had already been done by
consultants. The project was appraised in October 1980. Negotiations were
held in Washington in from May 13-21, 1981 with a Uruguayan delegation led by
General Juan Miguez, President of ANTEL.



- 14 -
36.       The project will meet a large part of the unsatisfied demand for
main telephone lines particularly in Montevideo, Uruguay's capital city, and
improve domestic long distance and international services. During the project
period ANTEL's organization and management capability will be strengthened
considerably so that ANTEL could manage efficiently a greatly expanded network,
and undertake expansion at greatly reduced costs.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project has a threefold objective:
(a) helping improve ANTEL's organization and management as needed to
run it along sound utility lines, including the development of
salary levels and structure that would enable the entity to
recruit and retain qualified staff, execute successfully the
required investments, and operate efficiently the more modern
and expanded facilities;
(b) helping attain an economic solution by reducing the cost of
equipment and materials, by extending use of international
competitive bidding to all imports, by following Bank procure-
ment guidelines; and helping ANTEL incorporate in planning
subsequent stages of development cost/benefit economic criteria,
thereby helping ensure an investment mix that is responsive to
the country's priorities especially in productive sectors.
(c) ensuring adequate user charges for telecommunications services,
including a tariff level that permits the full recovery of
costs and generation of a reasonable proportion of the funds
needed for expansion and investment, and a tariff structure
which promotes economic efficiency in the use of existing
plant and in the allocation of new resources.
38.      The project would consist of the following components:
(a) in Montevideo, a total of 208,800 lines of local automatic
telephone exchange equipment and the retirement of about 99,000
local exchange equipment lines which are obsolete and fault prone;
associated cables and telephones to connect about 60,000 main
lines; and replacement of existing deteriorated local cables;
(b) in the rest of the country, a total of about 19,700 local
automatic exchange equipment lines to replace some manual
exchange equipment, and to expand existing automatic exchanges;
associated cables and telephones to connect about 13,000
additional main lines;
(c) a standard A earth station for satellite communication;



- 15'-
(d) a combined national and international automatic exchange with
a total of about 4,200 terminations including terminations for
about 1,300 long distance and 900 i'h1ternational circuits;
about 900 additional national long_jListance circuits;
(e) buildings to house equipment; and
(f) consultants to assist in project execution, including institution-
building aspects.
39.       The 1981-85 investment program which includes the Bank-financed
project comprises the retirement of approximately 99,000 lines of automatic
exchange equipment in Montevideo, leaving only about 20 percent of exchange
capacity with more than about 20 years in service. Similarly, after replacing
the fault prone parts of the city's cable network, only 15 percent of it would
have been in use for over 20 years. Some 7,200 lines of manual telephone
exchange capacity in the interior would be substituted by automatic equipment.
Congestion on long distance service would be overcome, and speed and reli-
ability of this service improved considerably, by (i) introduction of sub-
scriber long distance dialing in another 25 exchanges in the interior of the
country, (ii) increasing the number of long distance circuits, and (iii)
introducing a new combined national and international automatic telephone
exchange. The latter, and provision of a standard full size earth satellite
station, would considerably improve the availability and quality of inter-
national services. All this would result in marked improvement of service
quality and reliability to current subscribers, in lower maintenance costs,
and in higher effective traffic leading to larger benefits and telephone
revenues. Also, approximately 120,000 additional main lines would be
connected in Montevideo, and 26,000 in the interior, which would meet
virtually all the currently outstanding and conservatively projected demand
until end 1985. Some 1,400 telex lines would be added probably meeting
projected demand up to 1985, including that in cities not currently served.
Costs and Financing
40.       The cost of the project is estimated at about US$204.8 million
equivalent, including foreign exchange expenditures of about US$134.7 million,
or about 66 percent of the total project cost. The cost estimates are based
on December 1979 prices paid by other telecommunication organizations procuring
similar equipment through international competitive bidding, and then adjusted
for inflation during 1980. Price contingencies amount to about 48 percent of
the total of base and physical contingency costs, and are based on forecasts
of annual international and domestic inflation. Physical contingencies of 5
percent of local costs are provided for buildings and civil works; however,
none is required for equipment since the needs are based on detailed engineer-
ing designs and plans. A breakdown of costs by project component is contained
in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. ANTEL is
expected to use approximately 279 man/months of consultant services for the
project at an average cost per man/month of US$4,500 plus NUR$14,000.



- 16 -
41.        The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would finance 19 percent
of the total project cost, and about 29 percent of the foreign exchange
cost. The Bank would assist ANTEL in obtaining another US$40.0 million
from commercial bank sources through co-financing arrangements. ANTEL would
finance the balance of US$124.8 million equivalent (about 61 pe.rcent of total
project costs) from internal cash generation.
42.        The Government and ANTEL are planning to negotiate a commercial bank
loan of about US$40.0 million which is expected to be obtained on attractive
terms with support from the Bank through the usual private cofinancing agree-
ments. If and when the additional loan is obtained, the Loan Agreement would
be amended to include (i) the usual "cross-default" clause; (ii) a skewed
amortization schedule so that approximately uniform semiannual amortization
payments would amortize both loans; and (iii) should the terms for drawdown of
the private cofinancing make it necessary, it might be required to introduce
further amendments to the loan documents conditioning certain disbursements
against the Bank loan on the co-lender's loan having been fully disbursed. An
agreement would also be entered into between the World Bank and the commercial
bank substantially in the form of earlier Bank agreements with commercial
banks. The Executive Directors would be informed once the foregoing arrange-
ments had been made. The Government has undertaken to make necessary funds
available to ANTEL, if the additional financing is not obtained (Section
2.02(b) of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursement
43.       All goods financed under the Bank loan would be procured through
international competitive bidding under the Bank's procurement guidelines.
None of these goods are currently manufactured in Uruguay. Other imported
goods not financed by the Bank would also be procured through international
competitive bidding. As a condition of effectiveness of the Fifth Power
(Loan 1779) and Montevideo Port (Loan 1798) loans, a decree has been issued
whereby procurement of goods financed by the World Bank and IDB is facilitated
through the simplification of necessary administrative procedures. Some
goods, like internal wires, cable ducts, etc., which are manufactured locally
would be financed with ANTEL funds and procured through competitive bids
from domestic suppliers and the local procurement practices permit sufficient
competition to assure a reasonable level of costs.
44.       ANTEL staff would prepare engineering designs and bid documents,
would evaluate bids and draw up contract documents for all equipment, except
that for switching equipment and the earth satellite station, where ANTEL
has already retained consultants to assist ANTEL staff in this work and for
assistance in contractor supervision. ANTEL would contract with local com-
panies to lay and join all cables, and would supervise the contractors' works.
ANTEL would install all subscriber equipment, and would assist contractor
staff in the installation of transmission equipment and of new and sophis-
ticated switching equipment. ANTEL's senior engineers, together with
consultants would be in charge of the implementation of the project. These
arrangements, including the use of consultants' assistance, are considered
adequate to carry out the project satisfactorily.



- 17 -
45.        Disbursement would be made only for imported equipment and related
installation services. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1986.
Institutional Improvement
46.        The separation in 1974 from UTE and absorption of telegraph services
and other functions formerly the responsibility of other government services,
was not followed by a sufficient effort in reorganization. The weaknesses
outlined in paragraph 30 require a thorough review of the entity's future
managerial requirements to establish an organic structure and suitable defi-
nition of duties and responsibilities at various levels of the organization.
Also, a comprehensive system of internal controls is needed in accounting and
administration. Mainly because of low and inadequately structured salaries,
there is a strong tendency for qualified staff to search for better employment
terms elsewhere, and ANTEL is unable to attract experienced replacements where
available, or to retain young university or technical school graduates beyond
the initial training period. Therefore, as a condition of effectiveness,
ANTEL has agreed to retain consultants with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.07 of draft Loan Agreement) to (a) review ANTEL's organiza-
tional structure and recommend the specific changes that are needed; (b) pre-
pare job descriptions and qualification requirements for all posts including
a clear definition of main lines of divisional and individual staff respon-
sibilities and outline in detail those responsibilities that should be dele-
gated to the general and divisional managers; (c) obtain from ANTEL a decision
on performance standards and thereafter draw up a system to record and to
monitor the events and work out the staff requirements in each category
involved in the work; and (d) prepare a staffing plan with specific recruit-
ment targets for key professional staff together with a program for salary
increases which would enable the staffing plan to be carried out. ANTEL and
the Bank have agreed on a list of the key posts--incumbents of which should
be well qualified, and retained by ANTEL for reasonable time periods. The
consultants would present their recommendations providing job descriptions and
qualification requirements for the key professionals within three months of
their engagement (Section 3.07(a) of draft Loan Agreement). ANTEL would
recruit experienced and well qualified key staff within three months of
receiving the Bank's comments on the recommendations of the consultant study
(Section 3.07(c) of draft Agreement) so that their services can be used while
the project develops. The recommendations of the consultants on the general
organizational and related matters (point (a), (b) and (c) above) will be
discussed by ANTEL with the Bank and those on which agreement is reached will
be implemented by February 28, 1984 (Section 3.07(e) and (f) of draft Loan
Agreement).
47.        Steps are being taken at the urging of the Bank to improve some of
ANTEL's accounting procedures (e.g. accounting for stores and fixed assets).
A recently retained consultant is reviewing the applicability in ANTEL of the
recommendations for improvements in accounting and financial management made
by Arthur Young & Co. for UTE in 1975 (before ANTEL was completely separated
from UTE). ANTEL has agreed, as a condition of effectiveness, to send to the
Bank the consultants' report and, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon,



- 18 -
send the Bank its recommendations no later than October 31, 1982 together with a
plan of action containing specific dates of implementation and unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank carry out the action plan so as to take effect with the
financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1983 (Section
3.09 and 7.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement). In the case of the Fourth and
Fifth Power Project (Loans 712-UR and 1779-UR), based on poor Bank experience
with the official auditing unit (Tribunal de Cuentas), the loan agreements
contained covenants prescribing that the Borrower (UTE) retain private auditors,
in addition to using the Tribunal de Cuentas as prescribed by law. While the
covenant was not complied with in the case of Loan 712-UR, UTE has now retained
a private auditing firm. Although ANTEL was formed through the split-off from
UTE of the telephone sector the same auditing difficulties may not recur in
ANTEL as in UTE, since Tribunal de Cuentas received technical assistance from
IDB in connection with the IDB loan to ANTEL. The draft Loan Agreement
requires that independent auditors acceptable to the Bank be employed (Section
5.02(i)) and this permits the use of either Tribunal de Cuentas (which is
independent of the executive branch) or a private firm. The Bank would review
the 1980 audit of ANTEL by Tribunal de Cuentas which will be done in accordance
with current procedures for ANTEL with a view to evaluating the Tribunal's
capacity and capability in determining whether the Tribunal should continue
alone auditing ANTEL's accounts or whether other. independent auditors should
be hired. Also, during project supervision, the Bank will review procedures
and qualifications of audit staff and, if deemed necessary by the Bank, new
auditors will be retained.
48.       While the overall staff productivity of 23 per 1,000 telephones is
reasonable, considering the current utilization of open wires on long distance
links, and manual operation of the long distance service, the standard of
subscriber service, in terms of number and duration of faults, is unsatisfac-
tory. The staff productivity would improve to 15 per 1,000 telephones by
1985 with large scale use of microwave systems in place of open wires, and
automatization of the long distance service--both items included in the
project. With Bank consultation, ANTEL has established performance targets
over the 1981-85 project period for improving the subscriber service standards:
reduction of personnel by attrition as well as increase of flow and financial
targets.
Tariffs, Billing and Collection
49.       According to a decree issued in 1979 during the preparation of the
Fifth Power Loan, ANTEL's tariffs are set to produce a certain rate of return
on the sum of average revalued net fixed assets in operation and of current
assets. The exact rate of return has not been defined, but Government's
policy so far has been to maintain tariffs at a level that produces enough
revenues to cover operating costs and eventually to provide an adequate
contribution to expansion of the telecommunications sector. On this basis
ANTEL's tariffs have been increased roughly at the same rate as its operating
cost, which has permitted ANTEL to maintain a rate of return of about 5
percent in 1977-80. In addition, ANTEL can request tariff adjustments: (i)
within the first four months of each year - as a matter of routine; (ii) at



- 19 -
the end of each quarter, if the adjustment proposal reflects rate variations
of more than 5%; (iii) at any moment if such variations add up to more than
10%. As a result of these provisions, inflation has been adequately reflected
in ANTEL's tariffs since the issuance of the decree. The tariff level of
ANTEL, however, has not permitted ANTEL to generate adequate funds for its
expansion programs and in February 1981 the tariff level was increased by 4%
in real terms. Furthermore, during negotiations, assurances were obtained
from ANTEL and the Government that during each of the years 1982-85, at least
50% (and for the period as a whole 60%) of ANTEL's capital expenditure would
be provided from internal sources. The contribution to expansion from
internal sources for 1986 and subsequent years would be 60%. Starting on
December 15, 1981 and at least every six months thereafter, a review would be
conducted with the Bank on the adequacy of tariffs to comply with the afore-
mentioned requirements, and if necessary steps would have to be taken to raise
tariffs (Section 5.05 of draft Loan Agreement). ANTEL has also undertaken to
make use of its rights under the abovementioned decree to apply for tariff
increases to meet cost increases arising from inflation. Based on the fore-
going and projected increases in traffic, ANTEL's revenues would provide for
an acceptable contribution to expansion.
50.        In addition to corrections of rate levels referred to in paragraph
49, ANTEL should review its tariff structure in relation to average and
incremental costs, subject to financial and other constraints, with emphasis
on improving the value of market signals to further direct existing plant and
new investment towards economically efficient use of resources. ANTEL has
agreed to carry out the necessary studies based on terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank and using consultants or staff whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Bank. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that consultants for the study had been hired or in lieu thereof
that staff for the study had been made available (Section 7.01(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The tariff study together with a plan of action for such
changes as may be required would be sent to the Bank by October 31, 1982 for
review and where necessary to put into effect within six months of receiving
the Bank's comments such recommendations as are agreed with the Bank (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       ANTEL's subscribers are billed monthly on UTE's computer and bills
are normally paid (except for bills to Government) about a month after being
received by the subscriber. As of December 31, 1979, overdue government bills
amounted to NUr$47.1 million (about US$5.0 million), which is equivalent to
about 13 months of billing. Some of the government accounts receivable date
from 1977 and earlier. Since then, tariffs have been increased by 260 percent
to compensate for the effects of inflation, and therefore the amount would be
equivalent to about 18 months of billing at today's tariff levels.
52.        In many cases, reorganizations and movements of government agencies
have not been adequately recorded by ANTEL to ensure that correct subscribers
are billed. Some government subscribers delay payment of their bills arguing
that in part they are being charged for telephones that are not used by them.



- 20 -
In order to deal with this situation, it has been agreed with ANTEL and
the Government that as a condition of effectiveness by September 30, 1981, 50%
of all lines relating to overdue accounts of the public sector would be
identified and reconciled and by December 31, 1981 such action would be taken
for the remainder of these lines. Payments to ANTEL are expected to occur as
a continuous process once identification and reconciliation of accounts for
the lines in question has taken place. Nevertheless, the Government has
undertaken to cause these payments to be made gradually during 1982 but not
later than June 30, 1982. Also, the Government will make payment for all
billings to the public sector for services rendered if not paid within 75 days
of billing (Draft Loan Agreement Section 5.07 and Draft Guarantee Agreement
Section 3.02). This will also apply to the 50% of reconciled lines in respect
of services rendered after July 31, 1981 and, in respect of the remainder,
after October 31, 1981.
Finances
53.       ANTEL's revised budget for FY80 indicates a strong financial posi-
tion with a current ratio of 3.8 and only 19 percent of total capitalization
in long-term debt. As of December 31, 1977, ANTEL completed an inventory and
revaluation of its fixed assets. Subsequent annual revaluations are being
made according to the average increase in the cost of living and the exchange
rate for the US dollar. So far, this procedure has produced acceptable
results.  The financial projections, based on a tariff level as to conform
with the agreed financial covenant (see paragraph 49), indicate that at the
end of the project period in 1985, ANTEL will have a current ratio of 3.3 and
a long-term debt equal to 19 percent of total capitalization. During the
project period, ANTEL will contribute about 63 percent of the funds needed for
capital investments.
Economic Justification and Risk
54.       The size of ANTEL's 1981-85 investment program falls short of what
could be justified from the economic viewpoint, mainly because demand is
likely to outpace the forecasts on which the program is based. However, given
ANTEL's institutional limitations and the complexity of massive plant rehabi-
litation, the size of the program proposed is considered to be at about the
level that ANTEL can prudently undertake.
55.       Within this limitation, the program addresses both replacements
and other improvements to current subscribers, and expansion of facilities.
Given existing telecommunications technology, the program as a whole repre-
sents a least cost solution to meet ANTEL's five-year plan targets. The
technology chosen, digital switching, is now rapidly replacing older systems in
many countries on grounds of lower investment and operating costs, expanded
service options and greater system flexibility to deal with the unforeseen
development of demand. In the course of project execution, several matters
will be built into the preparation of the post 1985 investment program. In
particular, a detailed economic analysis will be carried out of (a) the
tradeoffs between replacement and expansion in Montevideo; (b) the priorities
for automatization, provision of subscribers' long distance dialing and expan-
sion among places in the interior; and (c) the size of the overall share of



- 21 -
investment allocated to the interior as compared with Montevideo. At present,
ANTEL lacks the institutional capacity to conduct this type of analysis which
is why the establishment of a planning unit assumes such importance. Given
the high rates of return projected for ANTEL's current investment program (see
paragraph 56 below), the absence of detailed investment option studies is not
a major consideration at this time. However, as ANTEL comes closer to its
goal of satisfying forecast demand, the net benefit of additional investments
will narrow, rendering the need for such studies even more critical. The
management consultants to be employed by ANTEL under the project (see paragraph
46) will prepare the establishment of a planning unit whose responsibilities
would include carrying out the foregoing economic analysis.
56.       The internal financial rate of return (i.e. the discount rate which
produces a zero net present value of projected incremental cash flows) of
ANTEL's 1981-85 investment program is 24 percent. As from June 1, 1980, a
value added tax of 18 percent was included in ANTEL's bills. ANTEL acts as
the Government's tax collection agent and the tax is not included in ANTEL's
revenues. No decrease in usage or expressed new demand for connections was
noted by ANTEL when the tax was introduced. With this tax included in the
benefits stream reflecting what users are willing to pay for telecommunica-
tions services, a minimum estimate of the economic rate of return of the
1981-85 program is 30 percent.
57.       These rates of return understate the benefits to be derived by
users from the investment program. Partly this arises from the fact that
users are probably willing to pay for the telephone service considerably more
than ANTEL's tariffs plus value added tax. For example, under severe telephone
traffic congestion, users incur a considerable cost in time spent attempting
to call, and possibly also in business inefficiency resulting from the long
delays in completing calls. In at least some parts of the country, potential
subscribers have been found willing to pay immediately the full investment
cost of new telephone main lines in order to get them promptly. The demand
for houses and offices with a telephone in Montevideo is considerably higher
than for those without a telephone. None of these related additional benefits
have been incorporated in the calculation of the economic rate of return.
58.       The risks of the project are limited mainly to the possibility of
delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen circumstances and delayed
tariff action. Since the project comprises a relatively large number of
partly independent activities, delay in the completion of a few works would
not generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. However, in the
case of ANTEL because of its origin and process of formation (see paragraphs
30 and 46) institutional change, in particular action on salaries, recruitment
of staff, tariffs and reorganization will be difficult to achieve. But the
attainment of institutional objectives would offer substantial rewards, given
the importance of the telecommunications sector for the improvement of produc-
tivity, development of the productive sectors and access to external markets.
A sensitivity analysis on the financial rate of return indicates that a
combination of 10 percent higher capital cost, 10 percent higher operating
costs and 10 percent lower revenues, would result in an internal financial
rate of return of not less than 17.5 percent.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay
and the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between ANTEL and the Bank, and the
Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section IV(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 7.01 of draft
Loan Agreement) would be (a) that evidence has been provided that ANTEL has
retained consultants for the management and tariff studies or made staff
available for the latter study; (b) that the report of the financial consultant
(see para. 47) has been sent to the Bank; (c) that ANTEL has identified and
reconciled accounts for 50% of the lines relating to overdue accounts for the
public sector.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments.
June 17, 1981



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 1
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                       REFEPFNCE CROUS (WFlCHTl     l tUE y  S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTINATEL->
TOTAL            177.5
AGRICULTURAL     154.6                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          FUROPF
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 690.0        950.0    2090.0                  1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     825.0       930.0    1054.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      2.5         2.8       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 80. 1       82. 1     83.6                     63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       4.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       14.0        16.0       16.0                    28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND     16.0        17.0       19.0                    81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         28.2        28.7      27.6                     41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                         64.4        62.6      62.5                     54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   7.4         8. 7      9.9                      3. 9                     8. 2
POPULATION GRQWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.5         1. 1      0. 3/c                   2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              2.8         1.3       0.5                      4. 1                     ?. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0         21.0      20.0                     34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0         9.0       9.0                      8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.4         1.4        1.4                     2.5                      1. 5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       107.0     101.0                    106.9                    113. 1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  117.0       120.0     114.0                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)'         94.0        98.0      87.0                     65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       68.0        65.0      54.0                     33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      4.0         3.0       3.0                      8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   68.0         69.3      71.0                     63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..      46.0                     66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        92.0      98.0                     65.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                     80.4
RURAL                               ..        59.0      87.0                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        82.0      83.0                     62.3
URBAN                               ..        97.0      97.0                     79.4
RURAL                               ..        13.0      17.0                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           962.0/d     920.0     710.0                   1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3478.0                             1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            180.0       170.0    241.0                     480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..          ..     212.0
RUPAL                               ..          ..     704.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                       ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.8/e        ..       3.6
URBAN                               ..          ..       3.6
RURAL                               ..          ..       4.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.5/         ..       2.1
URBAN                              1.5/e         .       2. 1
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             78.Oe         ..      80.7
URBAN                             88.O/e        ..      89.2
RURAL                             29.0/e        ..       27.8



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Pate 2
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGRHTD AVERA5jS
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT             MIDDLE flCOHE          MIDDLE IUCOfE
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EuRPOE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDiARY:    TOTAL                111.0       106.0      95.0                    99.7                    105.9
MALE                111.0       108.0      95.0                   101.0                    109.3
FDIALE              111.0       103.0      94.0                    99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 37.0        57.0      60.0                    34.4                     64.0
MALE                 35.0        51.0      55.0                    33.5                     71.1
FEMALE               38.0        63.0      65.0                    34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 23.0         21.0      19.0                    38.2                     21.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0        29.0       23.0                   30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                         13.0         ..        ..                     14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..         91.0      94.0                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       39.0         43.0      45.0                   43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      305.0       38& 0    510.0                    245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        10.0        87.0    113,0                    84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..        140.0       ..                     63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0         ..        ..                      ..                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1014.4      1140.1    1114.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 24.6         27.5     29.0                    22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             21.0        15.0      12.0                    37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               29.0         31.0     33.0                    23.3                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENiT)
TOTAL                               40.1        38.6      38.5                    31.5                     40.9
MALE                                60.6        56.4      55.5                    48.9                     55.9
FEKALE                              19.7        21.1      21.8                    14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0. 9         0.9       1.0                     1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERlCENT OF PRIVATE INCOfE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..        51. 3       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         4. Ojf      .
LOREST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        13. 31f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..     319.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    471. 0                    474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    471.0                    332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      30.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      30.0
Not available
Not applicab le.
NOTES
la  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithsetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962; le 1963;
/f 1967.
Most recent estimate of GNF per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                                  ANNX I
Pam. 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
Octet   Although the datu  -r  dean fromsure  geotaipyjudged the most atboritative and reliable, It should also be ntd that they may see h  dater-
-oltl-      copralebrsnao          .te lac  of stadrdleddeftinfu     sod cu.c..fa usd by diff_r_tcoctie  h  coiletotg the dais.  Ths data  o,  ae
theists..usfutodesrbe oders  f sanlede, i.dicato trends, and thrcetecranmjor differ.soe-  bet ..eeen . cotirie.
Trtete...c  ..oups are  III tbr sa.   coutr..y grop of  hb  sub)err ogotry sod (2) 0cutry group utch sotebt bigbsr avrage tacos, than the  onatry greap
of tesb  o   onr    netSc'aia  Sur                            :Prpls ltpt-ers  go ca.p  hbee 'Middle Inc-   Norh Afr too and Middle fast' Is cl...e bsasse ofstane
-oio-cuItra. Iatfiolalca).  1o the referenc. gou  data abe   ...sas  are popoatinaeabtd aritietic  .eso  fgr eah ldiosnu  sad she-  scaly esMa as
CLAlS Ar   (thousand sqI---                                                                  e.ogalsite  par Pbvaiotn-ii pacro  diorama by stahar et  -tcroIeaa PUY-
Total - Totul suface nes cempe icing lard aren and iInod waes                                 iti..s galifled from  a sdtol cohort atasrsstylss.
Agrcatue  - Estimts of agriout-I.r..cc  ac.ed  -ep-arily or permanetly                     P...olatier ocCrs-         Pseo .,- Pepulstion divided.by seba  at p-retimif
Sor crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to Ie. fal11s; 1977 dtna.              sic  sadfemal  grduate mre,Prsotirl agres   md saiatant sme   ..
P.eslation-   .e..oall aed - satal urb-anma           es  - Papal-ien  (insist,
GiNP PEtR CAPITA (Oil) - IMP per taping catisa   at ....... market prcs a-                     sbam, and rora1) divided by theta reapertl          -"Taa  at haspitel bade
cnlaced. by-ns   oves          ehod as do.rld takAtlas (1977-79 he is;  9bb ilahle Ir public and private generAl 4 an  spLa1ishsd haspinal 1                             re
I157, acd  1979data.                                                                         bailitst ien ce,rers.   Mespitels arm etblishets peesamly staf d
by at lent ens physician.  Umtbli.bwnt  preelditag primaipsily amcsddil
ENEtRGY CONSUMgPTION PER CAPTTI.-A osnrsspino   oeca   nry(ol                                  cr  are sat IcIIoded.  Marc1 hespitals, hassve.l  imlds health  ad mednLW
sdlignIte  petroen,1        na  gsadyd-, nuclear and geatbhema  cisc-                      nerr   o  pem etly statfad by a phyatofan (het by a mediesi  -aiatft.
Itriciny   In bllogroa  of coal equtraleni per o.Pit.; 1960, 1970, gad 1978                  sarce, dmutt. s-.)  hieb offer in-patiant ar-eadaties  -an  peceda. a
dlt..                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imited esage af medical fantlitic.   Peor snatistinalPVP0* pecpes  a ba hf-
talc i-lde fWHOs Principal general and spcoiAlised hepitah8, sad eMal
P.PUIATIOF "b ~~~~ITAI, STATISTICS ~~~hospftale   - l oser  -aslb1 pial  ad mdi'a  mc d mananot  cantta..
Total Pspulutira. Kid-Sea  (millira...    As of Ja1Y i; 1960, 1970, and 1978               Adminstona  -c  Masrita1 ted - Tata1 nanhenf admissias as er dicbhmt*e
dta.                                                                                      fcre hospitals dttded by the  -,he  nf beds.
irbn Ppula 1tion (rercet of tota) -ato of arban to total papoantra.;
diffee...i dafiitelon   af Arbor erea may affet csparsbility of dana                  OUSN
aag outr Ies; 1960, 1970, aed 1979 data.                                            A-vergeSano.fse-l (pe....pa   beh.ldl - ntaul.  ea.adntl
Papolanfon Pros anions                                              A bausebol~~:h  d consists af a grop of  Adividmais  h.a share liig q-amtera
Prrnlatrt in yar ISIS-  orrest pouainpenJectirns  -e  based on 1980                  an   heir main saSs.   A bese1de.r;or lodgr may or may art be isoidcd In
totl  opla_  Lt ,o yae  n   e   ndtrmrtality and fertility ran.                         the household for statisia pI foa
Projection pamersfoe mortalitY rains comprise of three levlsasom                      A-ar-a  unbec of perarne ea  eo -tral   arbs-d meal1 - A-eea  aa
legh e cap~ ecn-np an birth. inceaing tith r irsper capita moans                        her of per...c per r-s. I  all arSon  and.. rora1  -oapied ceaesimall
love,  rd feala Iife e  tec..ny sitlteinig ci 71.5 years. The pars-               de11ing., respecti-ely.  D.elliagasolode nan-pereemAnt s-teonec  and
aresfrCni ityrat  sJ.. bar  three levels assuming deoSite toIdopldprs
fortulity scoding to Iseme leve  and pas  feally pleasIng perforac.,                  Ac..s.nt' nlentiitv (roet If dee1lital -total.  ara.saera-
iabcsrr   I  te  aesigsed sac ef shsaanlsc_mi-ti... of mortality                Cenvetireml deetings. nith eloeot.olvn1qmtn   eprmt
So-d feenfliny trends far peajegtite  Pcrposa.                                            ofItnl   ra,ed rona1 deel1irge renpecti-ely.
Sntiro.r. ryors:aiio-tnss  ttnicnmry pgpolsnian theta Is so grreb sinc
,h   ithrt  is               thal o  b  death  stc, mad elan the  g  s,teutr  i -    mDUCATION
malt a constant.  This is sublevad  ay after fet,ilit  rtesdcieto            idustd E .r.llsant Rignl
If   elaesilee   f  ntnn  eodete   an,aetec   enrton                                     Piay  col    oa,  aean   eae     rssttl  mS   adfml
of rmanreplcestise1f osacly.  Trhe staieay population sloemreole                                     of all  gsa   b   omr   ee  as petsnsga  of emapetira
thbaado   b  basis of thc prjrdohacritsof thEouaIo                                   rmr  nbo-g   PFotIon   norall  ialda   falea gd 6-1l
Inncyear 2011  and to rate of decline of fertility rate no replace-                    yers  o   d      n bfor difIeeslnths of primay adatnia; for
meat level.                                                                                -unriss stab-' uniersl: adortion enerilmet sy  sesd iON penant
tere ie rypopulation I is .eahed - The yea  habe  stetitmary population             siee are  pupils ar   ooso   bov  the oficial achami ag..
_iehsbarobad.                                                                  SOc...dary school - total, male aad f1nai  -_inmptid an abea;asnd
PPorlants e.-eit,                                                                              edctIgrqaies at Least foss years of agprnend prfmaey isant tian;
Per so. ha.- Mid-year population par sqsr  kilanter (100 heonarasl of                        provides  .n.r.l r       ...Ial,or to...bec traisis9i-fmettsaiie    tar psapib
tonal ora                                                                                   sal   f1  o17  er  of.  gs.; crapneaa                    es anngnrally
Per an. ha.  gricaltural land - Comp.tlc as abr- for sgrio-ltoal lted                         ...claded2.   t
only.                                                                                    Posimlerlmn   oras   fscnae       ostm liatotinnien
Prlnntiro AssOeocr  loauct onl -Children  5 0-14 yearsl  ekiggr(15-                            itoencir,idapfl,pohrpregam   thIablapesna imdlags-
64  ern,ad rtie    (6   er     d over) as pr-eegee of mid-year pepo-                         d-ntly or ma department  of acoday inetdtatiee..
lotion; 1960. 1970  Ir _1978 data                                                          Purol-rshbrrat            rmry   n   nodary - Itota  saddnna  -mrlid  fa
Popula.tion irrth faerrn) -ntl- kennel g-the rates of ntal. mid-                               prmryad secondary levels divided by nabara ef tabohar  In the
y-a  populations far 1950-h0, 1960-70  .dse  197O1-7-J crapnIn  evII..
Paralanio  Arantb Natl    pecnt.         orba  - Asual ge-thi ratec of orban pOpi.           bdl  lilterary rt  (eoet  - Literafe ada1ts (able ta rad cad -eitta)
felnsto  1950-hO, 1960-70, ned 1970-78,.                                                 asperr..nctge of tonal adult pepalatiem  aged IS yars led avar.
Croe   tre  nate  ..t fea ...usd) - Anita  lIon births pee th-ssa d of md-y-o
gpopltin1     16,1970, and 1978 data.                                                 CONSUMPTION
Crde tlechat  (err tboas-d) - Annual deaths pee thoasaad ofmdya                            asnn   aef.c.tosad....t.n   -Pssngr  as  epric  mhar
population; 1SbO, 1970, and 1978 dana                             .. carageing less than cigbt parnc...; cacladnaas.n                                       h-ar-. and
Gros_iprdclNotean- A-ergcaambcruf daugbtcr  a onma  eill boar In                              military vehicLe.
her'c,          epcsir  pcriod if abs ospsris...   prsn  ege-sp   f it, fa-              fadir R-ci-ern 'pr throesnd egeolatire) - Alt types of ra..siva.s fee eadh
il ry rrnusalfic-year   .. orrgo  coding In 1960, 1970, and 1977.                          broadcasts ro_geanralpob~ir per thaucand of Ppaplatfon; ancladas nli-
Alnr  lanin  - Aiceotor. Suaga    Itoaads) -Agoml mubhe  uf acpos                   emcrercsccosties and in ycare abe  esgien...tnen af radio  a
of birth-...ot_1 darioen uder. aupca       .f.loa  family plsfg program                    ass in affect; data foerecn  years may not be  -Wprable since mst
FoslIr ~Planning -  "I'or  (rerce..n of married ae - Pecr-nmga cf married                    r--nrhe  bSiahed lretg
eIm        hio cud-boaringag  (1-..h  . yers) who.use    thib-cocrl1 devices to          TO R-iv-re (or- thousand ecroltion   - TVrce r  tar brea.desat to
al  s-ried  ena  nrn   ge grosp.                                                           general publ~ic gl     bond poplaionhecldas snlieead rt ra..siv-rs
POOl 0511 lglCnItltig                                                  ~~~~~~In counries ad in Yea abet-registration of10stem  he at -ffset.
loden of Prod Prrdscilo    e   ai   t  (1b-f1)-idar of per caIaana                            ine of"dily ge .c. Ioteret  I .ap.p.r   dfined anaptid lpsb-
ponducirnof al fod ornodiien      rdoIonaous   rd  n     e   n                      Ic-ni-e devotd primarily to ecirding genera  sans.  It is .g..idamed
isorcaedar year batis,  Cumiadini  ravin  primary goods  eg   uaem                     oh  'daIy   fI   per   tlattn   ie                     ah
inan-d of  ugac) shich  -t  edible andcetiesrne  (eg   aftead                            CinmlAnapAcnit.pr  ah  per  c...asd a   b  obra
tes  re ecloed).oggegni  prdontrn  f eah cuatr  isbane  Ottickets sold during tbe pear, including edmisi..s to driv-in. miam
nanirmal average orld...e princ esights; 1961-S  197 0, ad 1978 dues,                      and mobile unite..
Per caita  -ue        I clories (pe__t of ronairen tne  - lupotad foam
-eneg eYquivalen_tof. tea toad sappliecvaislebl  In coutry pee capita               Tac0t FORCEn
per Say.  Availble supplies  ..epriss domcetic production, imporn les                  Trial labor Foroc (tbrsannde) - Ecrcainslly monies persn.-  i.snsding
oports, an.d obangs In stoc.    Net supplies emioda animal1 Seed, sed,                   amd  ocnd         unm loyd he  etluoghoaie,sa t,ae
qu..ntitieao-d In food poc Sig, sad le.... t  dietribtnirn.  lcqoirs-                    Se.f.vnoc   cvaiu  corre   e   e   eparble; 1MW  197  and
mets aere nalnatd by PAO b...sd on phyciclogical needs for norma  act-                   1978 doto
city go. elh ....eidering  -eier-.tel temperature, body weights, age                  Femal  )rront    1-.Ib  - femlelabr  orc          .. pretag  of ita2. Iebgeam
and sn distribonton of poPulation, sadalteg 10 Percent for- waste  t                   drcto        (rct)-Labor frroe In fsmimg  .. foetry, banning sad
household level; 1961-65  1970,, and 1977 data.                                          fishtt0 anpartotnag  of tonal Ilkboc forc; 1960. 1970 sad 1978 dame.
P'rr  at ueyo  Protein (ursa  pe "dy)- e ian  can-a  cf per capOt                        Industry  (percet) - Lab- forco  in miming , cntais,emfattriag
no oupl   f trod pee day.  Met -oppp of fond Is defined as above   is               .d e1acteicity, asters ad gas as p--e g.g  at tonal labor fared   1960,
quirenemi  far all coatrias established by  iLkD provide for sinMm                       1070 sa , 19P  data.
alloonI.f.      1grn  of nona1 pretein per dayod 11gea  of animal and                  Partinopanr:     aedecn)-ttl   al,sdtas-Paiiainc
pss rtIn, of rhioh 11 gras should be a-Iolprotei.   These stand-                   aciiyrtsac  optda                     al   ae   n   e ls blabo  farst
aeds are lover ther those of 75 gram  of icia1 peoteim  enS 23 fSo,                      Percentages of total, male and femle Pppiatio  of slSate  espgIrslp
ei..a       I proei  an an.ovrage tot the marld, Propose.d by FAl to the Third          1960.1970, ad i97  dat,I         eaur   ILls. psrtiipstiam  este  rfdlmetfg
World Feod Survy; 1961-65. 1070 sad197 dens.l
Pecsot  Protein saPY gram animal and noln - Protein supply of food dc-                   ag-eon sructure  ttepplto,adln-isted                                a    si
roe  fo   anl  end pulse  In gEn  per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dana.   fooi  D-ecdec n.. unit   - fasiao  prpsatina under 11 aad 61 and a
Cbiid (aes I-A)rcilt  faels   buad) I-Ana   etspar theasend In                                oiettllbrfre
ago%gronp -1-A years ;to childre in !this age grnsp; for most develping coon-
tys  rdn  dnrivsd fro  lIife  ths  1960, q170 sad 1977 data.                       INOCME DISTnIBUTIONi
PeresoseofPrlsi  mose(bth   ..1to ca  sad kiad  -  mcird by rInbest
life taEcten cy an Bieth  (vase) -Average nmbr of yearn of life renaiting                    of  p....c  rihsh     S  acn.p1rd.0pecm,an   eea .ecn
atIirth; 1965, 1970anod 197M data..
IOan  tfoccaitvE Ots leer ib....sd) - dasua  deba of is fa-  under ore yea    POVERTY TARiET GROITPS
ucA-..o. sf  _unt    C            oren f ese tenme) - tonal, rbar. sod rsroI - N.            Absolute p-vercy      .-m leve 1ta that incm-      ae   aas  he       md
Smeofpeople (tta.I  urb-, and  roral  nitb esasomble                  :.II t  sf      ntutrfiacilydeqsste  drl pn  astna  sa-fit  eaquiraata he net
wtr supp1y (Onclodac t_eatd asig nref           o _ r untreated bat unontaminated        affordable.
maersuh em than tore proteeted.bsrshnIa, springs, sad sanItary wells  us                Etimtdiltv    rse  iem   cd_f   e    sit)y.tcj,.r*
p.rc..etscag    of their r-pectiec pepulatirns.  In.nubnae a-ubicrrabrlaeIsv'n   ncmelee sIoethrd  of avragtpr  epne
C      -otanornadpo-  lnysted rot more thn200 estat  fro  a hoc  may ha             pesoa Incm    fte    er.Ura   ee  Is dri-nd teem  the rera
cicadred  anbaig nnbinrnartal  aces  ofthen b..a..  In rurl00I ee  sbh adjontnent for higher cost of livig In urbanrie
do rot hav  to spend 0disproportiass.t  Pae- ofthe day In ferthiog the n.ua       ecn   fpplto   obasdma)maacebeaapnt
Samily' seater cards.                                                                      ____
dispsa  as 1.  perrentagen of eheir reepstiv- pnpsltaioa           ... tarn  die                                          tamsi   a  tana1 lane Difuirf
Pr..al maY itlIde the ca1lentia  sald disposal , with on rinbh-  tro-tmar                                            tErnoic SAlysis mmd Projeatinna Dlmr~t
of homu  c_ren  an d -tean-cetmr bys.tanr-borm   sysntm   or the ace of                                                                   Ortabee 19W0



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Pasge 4
ECOSO!I C DEVFI.OIWENT DATA
(Amounts In millions of US dollars)
Actu.,l            Esti,ated        Pr1jecteJ       Aversce Ann C,l Wrowth R.,tes            As Percent of CDY
1976    1978      1979       1doU        1981       Q84    197_-7,    1975-.9   1981-8o          1976       1979       1984
NATIONAL ACCONTS                                      At 1979 Prices & Fxchanee Rates
Gross Domestic Product                      5,979   6,423   6,962         7,329       7,f66     8,555        -0.4      4.4          5.1      100.2    100.0        101.3
Gains from  Terms nf Trade (+)                -10         3        0        *F3         -90      -123         0               2                                     -1.3
Gross Domestic Income                       5,969   6,426         6,962   7'.16                  e.-                                          100.0    100.0       IC0.0
Imports (Incl. NFS)                         1,031   1,201   1,465        1,587        1,670    1,947         -0.8    10.5           5.2        17.3      21.0       22.0
Exports (         "(Import Capacity)        1,074   1,183   1,198         1 262       1 516    1 S64          0.7      7.8          9.8       18.0       17.2       21.1
Resource Gap                                  -43       18      267          254 8       i3                                                    -0.7       3.8        0.9
Consumption Expenditures                    5.146   5.556   5,950         6,277       6,307    7,112          0.7      2.9          3.3       86.2       65.4       80.5
Investment Expenditure (Incl. Stocks)         780      888   1,279        1,294       1,433    1,803         -5.2    13.9           8.3        13.1      18.4       20.4
Domestic Savings                              823      870   1,012          969       1,279    1,720         -8.9    11.1          14.4        13.8      14.6       19.5
National Savings                              723      785      961         863       1,134    1,545         -9.5    11.0          14.7        12.1      13.8       17.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                      Aninual Data at Current Prices                                                         As % of Total Merchandise
Expenditure
Imports
Capital Goods                               101    110       177         265          319       502        -9.9    26.2         17.2        17.2      14.4        17.6
Intermediate Goods (Excl. Fuels)            289    413       685         724          807    1,278         21.5    21.6         15.5        49.2      55.6        44.7
Fuels & Related Materials                   173    210       290         455          537       831       44.7    13.0          16.2        29.5      23.5        29.1
Consumption Goods                            24      41       79         159          166       245        20.1    42.5         11.8         4.1       6.5         8.6
Total Sierch. Imports (cif)                 587    774   1,231         1.603        1,829    2,856        20.7    20.5          15.6       100.0    100.0        100.0
Exports
Primary Products (Excl. Fuels)              257    331       364          525         697    1,216         12.0    10.5         21.1        47.0      46.2        53.5
Manufactured Goods                          290    355       424          504         689    1.056         28.4    28.7          22.8       53.0      53.8        46.5
Total Herch. Exports (fob)                  547    686       7b8       1.029       1,386    2,272          14.2    19.7         21.4       100.0    100.0        100.0
Tourism                                      68    137       268         370          450       715        8.3    28.6          14.1        12.4      34.0        31.5
Merchandise Trade Indices                                         1979 - 100
Export Price Index                        73.4      82.5   100.0       120.1        131.8    174.9        22.5       9.0         9.9
Import Price Index                        74.4      82.2   100.0       126.7        137.2    183.8        24.4       6.6          9
Terms of Trade Index                      98.7    100.4   100.0         94.8         96.1      95.2       -1.5       2.3         0.0
Exports Volume Ineex                      94.5    105.4   100.0        108,7        134,6    166.4        -6.5       8.4        10.6
VALE ADDED BY SECTOR                         Annual Data at 1979 Prices and Exchanae Rates                                                    As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      ~~~~777    752      782        865          891    1,021        -2.1     -0.b          6.2        15.2      13.0       13.3
greiculture                                1,h61    1,693   1,900        1,979        2,87R    2,475        -0.1       e.l         5.8         28.6      31.7      32.2
Industry anid Mining                       2 I65    3 071   3.312        3, -__6      3_597    4,6          -.1        4.6         5.0         56.2      55.3      54.4
Services                                   .~                    4       346          357      414          -          __           _
Total GDP (At Factor Cost)                 5,103    5,516   5,994        6,270        6,566     7,660       -0.4       4.9         5.1        100.0    100.0    100.0
PtFLIC FINANCE (in constant USS)                                                                                                                As Percent of GDP
(Central Covernment)
Current Receipts                           691       935   1,064       1,157       1,293     1,629          1.9    16.4          8.9       11.6       15.3      18.2
C-,rrent Expenditures                      725       870      888      1.024       1,I51    1,670           31      6.4          9.5       12.1       12.8      16.4
budgetary Savings                          -34        65      176        133          142       159          .        .          4.6       -0.5        2.5        1.8
Other Current Public Sector                263       381      298        410          373       394          .     18.3         -1.0         4.4       4.3       4.4
Public Sector Investment                   345       501      478        488.        515       604       -11.4    19.6           5.5         5.8       6.9       6.7
SCELCTED l-:DICATORS                          1960-65       1965-70        1970-75        1975-80
(Calculated from 3.year averaged data)
Averaged ICOR                                  17.01           4.56          15.49           3.43
Import Flastlcity                             -7.25            6.19           1.51          3.92
arrvinal Domestic Savings Rate                  1.50          -0.46           1.11           0.30
Msrginal National Savings Rate                  1.40           -0.49          0.93           0.26
Total labor Force                       Value Added Per Worker (1975 Prices 6 Exc. Rates)
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER W0)RYER        In Millions      7  of lotal       !rowsth Rates       In ;' Dollars    Percent of Average          Grcwth Rate
1963   1975      1963    1975        1963-75           1963       1975       1963       1975          1963-75
Agriculture                                0.18   0.21       17.9    19.8          1.3            2,366     1,762       0.79       0.60            -2.2
Industry                                   0.26   0.31       25.7    29.0          1.5            3,519    3.439        1.18       1.16            -0.2
Service                                    0.56   (1 55      56.4     51.2        -0.2            t9_12     I143        0.98       1.06             0.6
Total                                      1.00   1.07    10'I.0   I fr0.0         0.6            2.983    2,957        1.00       1.00            -0.1
not applicable             - nill or neginibhle
not available        .     . lesn than lalf the smallest unit shcwn.
1/ Log least squares estimate,.
June 1981



BSAWOE OF PAMDNTS, EMERNAL ASSISrANCE AND DM
L.mxnts in millicns of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Ansual
Actual                              Estimated                      Proiected                   -Crgth fat-
1976        1977        1978        1979             1980          1981         1982          1983        19 4              1979-1984
S-%CtARv 9ALACE OF PATMErTS
EVorts (incl. NFS)                         696.2       808.6       912.9    1,198.4           1,515.0       1,968.5       2,367.1      2,760.7    3,177.0              21.7
o-ts  (tncl. NTS)                   705.1       90t.1       970.2    1,464.5           1910.         2179.3        2,509.8      2,906.3    3.354.,               17.2
F    i. k>r^zan5eX-t)             -8.9       -98. 5      -57.3      -266.1           -395.3        -210.8       -142.7        -145.8      -177.4
! '^tr"t (net)                            -57.2        -56.1       -58.7       -45.8           -102.3        -148.0       -167.5        -179.1      -202.2              31.0
Other fActor paygUtS                      -15.2       -11.8       .18.1       -12.0            -25.0          -41.9        -55.9         -69.1       -8r.9             43.1
7.7         6.6         7.1         7.1              6.0          10.0          11.0         12.1        11.3             16.5
:: -:~cr.8 CSLO-.t Accomnts               -73.6      -159.8      -127.0       -316.8           -516.3        -390.7       -355.1        -381.9      .44 .2              2.0
oricite-  110J.  ~84.3                                 245.9       212.2       264.3            420.0         387.2         401.7        418.0        44 .4              7.9
Cf-.cal1 ;:aPItal Grants
PaI   '11'LT LOans
s>: -ar.e.nts                        224.1       225.7       416.0        173.5            303.0         138.8        125.7         205.4       277.7              3.Z
-148.3      -186.9      -365.8       -54.5            -68.(1       -101.7        -135.9       -198.9       -233.0             36.0
*.ea  1;bse.-erts                          75.8         38.8        50.2       119.0            235.0          37.1        -10.2           6.5        44.7
Changes in reserves  L- - increas)        -86.5      -124.9       -135.4       -66.5           -138.7         -33.6         -36.4        -42.6       -44-.9
Ac tusi           ~ee 
'1  7Tz1,dina errorc    d omissions.                                                                                                                                      77lL  1 c7 u   1       1979  ---T      I
-                                                                                  XEBT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  AND DSbT SER iVICE
692.3      735.1      792.7         913.7   1.148.7
'.111 A: h'X'l COMMTWrNTs
Interest on Public Debt                    57.3        57.8       60.4         68.9
Repayments on Public Debt                  148.3      186.9      365.8          54.5       t7 
Publ:c SWLT loans                                                                                                Total Public Debt Service                  205.6      244.7       426.2        123.4  i '
p.-RD                                     ,__                       9.7         50.5         104.0
C:e^r ?ultilatersl                         -          15.0         29.7          35.5          57.5          Buxrden on Export E)rnings (S)
,^o, ernme::ts                           25.2           -            -             -
Surrlier.i                                3.9          1.6         10.9           2.0          10.0            Public Debt Service                         29.5        30.3       46.7          10.3       10.7
Fi:u.-4:iaj  Institutions               226.6        110.6        214.9          85.0          68.4
?o-d3 Js                                 35.0        130.0        135.0            -             -             TDS+Direct Inveet. Inc.                     32.0       33.0       51.9          16.3        15.9
r.:.. Icnsn n.e.1.                                        
To:  Public   LT    e                    290,7         25            400.2        173.0         239.9          Average Terms of Public Debt
' VIA ctual Debt Outstanding on Dec.  _l_1979                                                             Int. as % Prior Year DO&D                    9.3        8.3        8.2           8.7
DisbFV   Only         ~Perc-.;nt                        AmPiort. as % Prior Yeaw DS&D                24.1       27.0       49.8           o.9          .
lORD Debt Out.. & Disbursed                   79.2       75.6       73.7          73.8       72.0
Ot'"er 'Lltilateral                                  93.6                        10.2                                as % Public Debt OD                     11.4       10.3        9.3           8.1        6.3
0Grver .-.onts                                      129.6                        14.2                            "   5s % Public Debt Service                  5.8        5.6        3.2          11.5       10.3
36.0                        3.9
FinancJal Lnstitutions                              311.7                        34.1
268.9                       29.4
P 'clic Debts n.e.i
T.1oal Public V4&LT Debt                            913.6                       100.0
not applicable                                                       a  staff eatiDnte
not av! lAble                                                         -  nil or negligible
..ot avalable aeparatly                                             --  less than half the
but ircluded irn total                                                   sMallest unit shown
to' L   1-iat squores estimates.                                                                                                           June 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of April 30, 1981)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                            (less cancellations)
No.       Year    Borrower              Purpose                  Bank    Undisbursed
Loans fully disbursed                                           172.1          -
1176    1975    Rep. Oriental    Industrial Development
del Uruguay       and Export Expansion       20.8         1.5
1594    1978    Rep. Oriental    Vocational Training
del Uruguay       and Technological
Development                 9.7         9.7
1689    1979    Rep. Oriental    Second Highway
del Uruguay                                  26.5        26.5
1779    1979    Administracion   Fifth Power                     24.0        24.0
Nacional de
Usinas y
Transmisiones
Electricas
1798    1980   Administracion    Montevideo Port                50.0        50.0
Nacional de
Puertos
1831    1980   Rep. Oriental       Agricultural
del Uruguay        Development                24.0        22.9
1930 1/ 1980   Rep. Oriental       Second Industrial
del. Uruguay       Project                    30.0        30.0
Total (net of cancellations)                   357.2       164.6
of which has been repaid                     121.0
Total now outstanding                          236.2
Amount sold                  4.8
of which has been repaid   4.5                 0.3
Total now held by Bank                         235.9
Total undisbursed                                          164.6
1/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - April 30, 1981
Fiscal                                    Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                  Business             Loan    Equity    Total
1976    Fabrica Uruguaya de        Motorvehicles              3.80        -       3.80
Neumaticos                 and accessories
1979    Acodike Supergas S.A.    Chemicals and                 .95        -         .95
petrochemicals
1979    Astrd Pes-uerias           Food prcn-:sing            4.50      0.90      5.40
Uruguayas S.A.
1980    Sur Invest Casa            Money and capital         10.00      0.59    10.59
Bancaria S.A.              market
Total gross commitments                           19.25       1.49    20.74
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             1.10        -       1.10
Net held by IFC                                   18.15       1.49    19.64
Total undisbursed                                 10.00       0.15    10.15
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1176   Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project: US$20.8;
December 4, 1975: (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981).
Project commitments are expected to exhaust the remaining US$4.3
million in Bank funds before the end of 1981.
Loan No. 1594   Vocational Training and Technological Development: US$9.7
million; June 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 27,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Selection of contractors is underway for construction of the labora-
tories for the technical institute. The technical assistance program for the
same component is under way. The Vocational Training Council is gradually
initiating its activities.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1689   Second Highways:  US$26.5 million:  June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: December 27, 1979: Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Good progress has been achieved in tender process of civil works;
execution started in August 1980; the initiation of the consulting services
is well in hand. Because of limited devaluation and high inflation the
construction costs expressed in US$ will be higher than expected.
Loan No. 1779   Fifth Power:  US$24.0 million; March 6, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on December 12, 1980.
Loan No. 1798   Montevideo Port:  US$50.0 million: March. 1980: Closing Date:
December 31. 1983.
This loan became effective on February 26, 1981.
Loan No. 1831   Agricultural Development:  US$24.0 million April 22, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
This loan became effective on August 21, 1980 but loan demand is
negligible because of low meat prices, and no disbursements have been made.
Loan No. 1930   Second Industrial Credit:  US$30.0 million;
January 19, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
URUGUAY
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Administracion Nacional de
Telecommunicaciones (ANTEL)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:           March 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:       October 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:           May 1981
(f)  Loan effectivenes planned:            November 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementations Actions - None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances have been obtained that ANTEL would:
(a) carry out a tariff structure study based on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The study will be sent to the Bank by
October 31, 1982 and where necessary be put into effect within six
months of receiving the Bank's comments such recommendations as
are agreed with the Bank (paragraph 50);
(b) in consultation with the Bank, implement the final recommenda-
tions of the consultants' study in respect of organization
structure, job descriptions and responsibilities and monitoring
of performance standards and take action in agreement with the Bank
and in accordance with a timetable agreed by the Bank (paragraph 46);
(c) implement in consultation with the Bank the final recommenda-
tions of the consultant study in respect of key staff salary
levels and scales and have all such posts effectively staffed,
within three months' of receiving the Bank's comments on the
recommendations (paragraph 46);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) ANTEL would send to the Bank the financial consultant's
report together with an action plan, and unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank carry out the plan so that its results
are reflected in ANTEL's financial statements for FY83
(paragraph 47).
2.        Assurances have been obtained from Government and ANTEL that as
from FY82 tariffs will be maintained at a level during each of the years
1982-85, to produce at least 50% (and for the period as a whole 60%) and in
the year 1986 and thereafter at least 60% of ANTEL's capital expenditures
from internal sources (paragraph 49).
3.        As a condition of loan effectiveness (a) ANTEL will retain consul-
tants to carry out a management and tariff study (or make staff available
for the latter study), (b) ANTEL would have identified and reconciled
accounts for 50% of the lines relating to overdue accounts for the public
sector and (c) the report of the financial consultant would have been sent
to the Bank.



1s    };   : 1   \.  ini  |ii 2\  0                :      :    00      :b   t::2t:|5u:0=  \;0               t0   : X  :0           fi;:  :    i.t            ii:  5      t0   p\57              '7j L 
,Nja,   A ;   i!yl                                                                    ,l        D;         \  X,       =0/040i   lD.: ii:I0000;  0i:5:;  :;iX                      ;i;; t;0 0; A
;~~~~~~~~~~w                                             0,Ay,,a-5i-  Tp  __4
\ys Xb N  s Xtg *0 9;;;i
/ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                                  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M} rA\7-  @_
|   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C n   C* *                                *          **''  
>   e   S  i   i.,,                     &.i/                            S S                               *                                W_: TE' i s :R a; fE 0 | \ aLD S: ;N  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al
Z   gPgSf' ,.               .                                               W                       .            .                        )&:|XiZ;;  i X'S;ENDS .  SUty.R,f:dE;.''in;~~~~a



