Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11572-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
(PFOP)
MARCH 19, 1993
H-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
,    ,  ._. }i ,   .\,l 7 2'    I  >; :/ \;1 .  E;   vi. ;it .;;,         j
Cotutry Operations and Industry & Finance Division
Coutry  Department III
South Asia Region
| Th  document has a "retited disibti"on  d may be used by recipet only in the performance of
their offcici dues. Its cons may not otherwise be dislosed without Wodd Bank authzation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 1992)
Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)    -     100 pai.a
US$1.00                 -     Rs 46.0
Rs 1.00                 -     US$0.022
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sri Lanka           January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks                  January 1 to December 31
DFCC                              April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank         January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCLFAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AWn            Average Weighted Prime Rate
AWDR           Average Weighted Depoeit Rate
BDD            Banking Development Department
BIS            Bank for International Settlements
BOC            Bank of Ceylon
BSD            Bank Supervision Department
CBOC           Comercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL           Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CeA            Central Environmental Authority
CIBSL          Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka
DFCC           Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DPI            Development Finance lIstitution
ElA            Environmental IMpact Assessment
EMS            Environmental       ement Strategy
UPF            Employees' Provident Fund
EPL            Envirormental Protection License
EPZ            Export Processing Zone
ETF            Employees' Trust Fund
FCBr           Foreign Currency Banking Unit
FD'            Poreign Direct Investment
P^L"s          Foreign Investment Adviaery Service
GC&C           Greater Coolambo Economic Commission
G9             Governrent of The Netherlands
aOSL           Government of Sri Lank.
mNB            Hatton National Bank
ICASL          Institute of Chartered Accountnt. of Sri Lanka
ICSL           Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka
IDA            International Development Association
MB             Monetary Board
HEIP           Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program
MPA            Ministry of Environment and Parliamentary Affairs
MOF            Ministry of Finance
UBFISD         Non-Bank Financial Institutions Supervision Department
NDB            National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
UESC           National Environmental Steering Coamittee
NGO            Non-Covernment Organizations
NIC            Newly Industrialized Country
JSs            National Savings Bank
PB             People's Bank
PCAP           Pollution Control and Abatement Fund
PCT            Participating Credit Institution
PnlE           Public Manufacturing Enterprlses
This documant has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform 0nce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMAC          Public Manufacturing Intevpites Adjustment Credit
RRDB           Regional Rural Development Banks
$CB            State-owned Commercial Bank
SCOPE          Sheme for Control of Pollution frcom Xisting Industries
gMI            Small and Medium Industry
5HIB           State Mortgage and lawvetment Bsak
SO            Statement of Expe.se
TA             Technical Assistance
TAP            Technical Assistance Fund
TOR            Tenm  of Reference
UDA            Urban Development Act
UNDP           United Natiane Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
J
,t



STTF
cm
Credit and Project Sumary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-1it
I-  TBRIOLISR              * o*ooooo ...  *   **      l        a  .1
A. Recent lconDOic Performance   *    . .          .0.6.6.   1
Grloth P.rforIaNc   *......         . .I. .0. .. .  1
iscal Deficit             0  .                   000.01
Inflation 0 0 0**0**    ***  *  *                     0  2
Ezternal Sctor Developamet.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Export  . 0             *             0 .  0          . .           2
Izteral Aid   00000          00
D.velopmet of Infretructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Efforts for Poverty Reduction   *. .  a * * . . * . . . . * 3
S. Towards Macroeconomic Stabity   . .0 0 0 0 0 0 . 0. 0. 0.   4
C. Tatrd. a Private Sector-Led Opn Economy  . . .      .  .  .  . . . . S
D. IDAStrategy nd Ratioale for Ivolv.met    . .  . .  . .    6
Thaed PropaedPmect  .                             
Role of IC andG       0    00         0     0    08
it. 9Z INDUSTAL SECTOR                                               9
II .       F A                              0     0   0 0 1     0 0
A. Overviw and Policy lraem ork  . . . . . . . . . . .1
S. Pinancial sector luoas            13o o oo oo               .13
Dometic Rleource )hbilizatio for Tesm Lending             13
Contractual Svwing. Institutions  * . *       . . . . . . 14
Goveriment'. Role In the inancial Sector . . . . . . . . . 17
Developmeat Fla nce Coepant .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
State-Owned Commercial Sauk*.  .    * . . . . . . . . . .    i .s
Debt Recovery Legielation . .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Accounting nd Audit Standard. ad Euore m nt  .            20
Bankig Supervi.ion        * 0 0 0 0 0 * *          ... *21
This report vas prepared by Messre. V. Rohil Nefees end Rakesh Engia (SLSCI)
following an appral,al isieion to Sri Laka to December 1992. This report ba.
be   w *ndorsed by Kosoer. Isenuan (Director, SA3DR), Pefalver (Chbif, SAUCI)
and Wormser (Unit Chlef, Industry and Finance Unit, SA3C) * Per Reviaw
guidance ba. been provided by Mr. David Grove (S&1DR) and Kb. Mar1l1u Uy
(CaWR)



-2'-
IV. IHE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . .23
A. ObjectiveT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
D.roecDescr..t........................3
A. Tems and Condition. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Aumont and Maturity   ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 26
Interest Rate   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Subproject Financing Criteria   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Subloan Sie, Free Lmits nd UDReview    ...... .  27
Terms for On-lending by the GSL to the PCIs  . . . . . . .27
Terms of Repayment by the PCIs to the GOSL  . . . . . . . .28
B. Adm istration of the Credit  ............. . . . .28
Administrative Unit and its Structure . . . .    .  . . . . . . 28
Functions . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . 28
Existing Arrangements .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
C. Participating Credit Institutions (PCI.) . . . . . . . . . . . 29
P=oteutial PCIs  ...................................29
Eligibility Criteria for the PCIs . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Evaluation of the PCIs  . .........  . . . . . . . .30
Commercial Bank of Ceylon . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . .   . 30
Hatton National Bank  ..   .    ..... . .. .. .. .    31
Sampath Bank Limited  . .................. 3 2
Seylan Bank Limited . . . . . . . . . . . ........ . 32
D. Environmental Considerations  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .34
Environeatal Factors and Compliance Requirements . . . .   . 34
Administration of the Pollutiori Control and Abatemnt Fund. 34
3* Teebhical Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
Institutional and Policy Developm t  . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Domestic Resource Mobilization for Term Lending.  . . . 35
Financial Sector Reform sad Restructuring
of State-Owned Commercial Banks  . . . . . . . . . . .35
Accounting and Auditing . .............. . 35
Financial Intermediation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Assistane to the PCTa  . . . ........... .  35
F * Procurement  .. .. .a . .o. . .... .                         36
G. Disbursements  .. .. . . ... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .36
R. Project Monltoring, Reporting and Audlting . . . . . . . . . . 37
VI.* PRWJECT B34TS AND RISM    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND OECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39



-3-
1. Disbursement Schedule   .                                    42
2. The Government of Sri Lanka'o Statement of Financial Sector
Policy .               . .                                                   43
3. Interest Rate Structure (December 1986-December 1992)   . . .49
4. Bligibilitv Criteria for PCIos   . . . a . . . . . . . . . . .50
5. Administrative Unit - Structure and Terms of Reference  . . . 52
6.  Kvaluation of the PCIs  . . . . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . .56
7. Reostructuring of State-Owned Commercial Banks   . . . . . . .66
8. Composition of the Financial and Banking Institutions   . . .72
9. Envirommental Concerns  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 73
10. Technical Assistance  . ................... 85
11. Terms of Reference for the Formation of Investment Policy and
Operating Guidelines for the Management of Investment
Portfolio for Contractual Savings Institutions   . . . * . .91
12. The Bank Group's Intermediary Operations  . . . . . . . . . . 94
13. Terms of Reference for the Modernization of Sri Lanka's
Treasury Securities Market   . .. * .. . .. . . . . . .. . .97
14. Supervision Plan  ..................... . 103
15. Selected Documents and Data Available: Project File    . . .105



Credi and Projet Sir
DbgTC"-Xt       Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
2en*giahagLg:s Development finance institutions (DIs.) and domestic
¢cmercial banks meeting the eligibility criteria for
participation. The credit component will support private
enterprises, without limitation to their size or subsector. A
technical assistance (TA) component will assist selected
public and qus"i-public agencies and the participating credit
institutions (PCIs) In implementing the key elements of the
Project.
AmotgELs        SOR 43.2 million (US$60 million equivalent).
S raJs          Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Iluandin        The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) will on-lend the credit
Xnma'           proceeds to PCIs for up to 15 years, i3cludiug a maximum five-
yeur grace period, at a variable rate equivalent to the
Average Weighted Deposit Rate (41DR) of all Interest-bearing
term deposits of the Greater Colombo branches of domestic
comercial banks (excluding the National Savings Bank). The
bs"e for the Interest rate from the GOSL to the PCIs is
subject to annual retiew by IDA. It is expected to be changed
from the AMDR to the Treasury bill rate or another appropriate
index at the Mid-Term Review of the project when the bond and
mosey markets are expected to be sufficiently mature to
provide this benchmark. Eligible subloans will be financed on
a first-come, first-served basis. The PCIs will have full
autonomy to price the loan to enterprises according to
perceived risk, maturity and to cover their intermdiation
cost.. Repayment by the PCI. to the GOSL will be based on a
composite subproject amortization schedule. The PMDP
Administrative Units to be placed in the National Development
Bank (NDB), will administer the project on a fee basis
(expected to be one percent on the credit amount disbursed and
outstanding). The Unit will also be responsible for the
admlnistration of the TA component of the project, including
the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAP). As interest
rates will be market based and variable, the rates obarged to
end users will Indirectly reflect the foreign exchange as well
a the credit risk. The GOSL will bear the direct foreign
exchange risk of the credit. The PCI. will meet eligibility
criteria consistent with IDA guidelines related to finacial
strength and credit appraisal and monitoring capabilities.
Ot9hr           Financing of about US$12 million, on a grant basis, from the
ZIaNaDs         United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
the Government of The Netherlands (GON) is expected to be



ii
mobilized for this project.  The USAID ie expected to provide
about US$7 million on a parallel basis for the development of
the bond market and upgrading enforcement mechanisms for
accounting and audit standards. The GON's efforts vlll focus
on assisting with ervironmental issues, and IDA is expected to
be the administrator for the grant funds for this component.
ftjosct         The proposed project has four objectives:  (i) improve
Desciatlos    the efficiency of financial intermediation in Sri Lanka by
supporting policy and regulatory reforms In the financial
sectort (Wi) assist in domestic resource mobilization for
long-term investment by stimulating the development of local
bond markets; (iii) enable the private sector to respond to
the changing economic environment by providing investment
finance; and (iv) help deepen the financial system and
strengthen the key players, including the contractual savings
institutions, the CBSL, the Ministry of Finance (e 21), the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (iCASL) and
the PCIs.
Major elements of the proposed project would be (a)
Improvements in the policy and regulatory framework,
especially in areas affecting mobilization of domestic
resources for term investment through commercial channels; (b)
a credit component, on-lent by the COSL to the PCIs for
financing private sector investments; and (c) a TA component
to provide assistance for the preparation and impleme-tation
of various po'icy reforms including establishing a viable bond
market; preparing the state-owned commercial banks (SCBC) for
restructuring and recapitalization; providing support for
implementing new accounting and auditing standardst
operationalizing debt recovery courts; enhancing banking
supervision at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) and
supporting implementation of the new environmental industrial
standards.
Benefite and    With recent increases in rrivate sector investment in
Risks:          manufacturing, and prospects for continuation of this trend,
the country's financial sector is experiencing a shortage of
funds for term lending. While this is partly due to large
government demand for loanable funds, it is also partly due to
lack of investment skills by institutional savers, and
insufficient efforts to mobilize term resources by financial
intermediaries. The proposed project will not substitute for
the necessary efforts to mobilize domestic resources but will
encourage and complement these efforts. The provision of term
finance to the private sector will enable these enterprises to
take advantage of the changing economic '-vironment and retool
their operations, Improve efficiency and expand their markets.
The project will lay the groundwork for the development of new
financial instruments, including medium and long-term bonds,
and will encourage the existing financial institutions to



iii
diversify their funding sources. It will also provide
assistance for the restructuritg of the SCBs and support the
GOSL'a efforts to improve financial sector efficiency.  TA and
credit to firms for environmental investments vill help ease
the environmental burden of the country's industrial sector,
particularly in the Greater Colombo area. The main risks to
the projact's success lie In the overall investment climate in
Sri Lanka. If the ethnic disturbances escalate significantly,
commitment and disbursement rates for the project would
suffer, and repayment rates of subloans to PCIs could also be
adversely affected. However, private investment in recent
years hao been high and the PCIs forecast a rising demand for
investment finance. Sustainable improvements in the PCIs'
ability to mobilize domeotic resources will depend tn the
GOSL's success with maintaining macroeconomic stability,
containing the public sector's borrowing requirements and
pricing public sector borrowing at market-determined rates.
nvAironmental   The Project is rated "W". To minimize the risk of adverse
ImDacts         environmental effects, all subprojects will be required to
conform to the general environmental guidelines issued by the
GOSL and monitored by the Central Environmental Authority
(CEA). PCIs will coordinate closely with the Administrative
Unit and CIA througbout project implementation. As mentioned
above, the TA component and cofinancing will provide credit
and technical expertise to enterprises undertaking
environmental investments.
Estimated Cost:    Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign    Total
(Re billion) -----    -----(US$ million)-----
Credit Component     3.6      2.8      6.4      78.7     61.2    139.9
Technical Assistance 0.1      0.6       0.7      2.9     10.8     13.7
Total                2.4      2.3       4.7     81.6     72.0    153.6
Financing Plan:
IDA                  0.0      2.8       2.8      0.0     60.w'    60.0
Co-financiers        0.0      0.6       0.6      0.0     12.0     12.0
PCIs                 1.8      0.0       1.8     38.3      0.0     38.3
Entrepreneurs        1.9      C.0       1.9     43.3      0.0     43.3
Total                3.7       3.4      7.1     81.6     72.0    153.6
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Yedr:             FY94    FY95       FY96     FY97     FY98
Annual                         6.6     13.8     21.0     13.2      5.4
Cumulative                     6.6     20.4     41.4    54.6      60.0
Percentage                     112      34%      691      911      1002
fthe                        No. IBRD 23009



PRIVATE nIZARCI DRVELOPMT PROKCT
STAm? APPRAISAL REPOX?
1. TEE ECON!HIC SETTING
1.01        For over fifteen years, Sri Lanka has tried to dismantle the
iaward looking development etrategy that followed independrAce. After the
initial reform push of 1977, economic management oscillated between periods of
slow and more rapid reform, but both state ownership and Intervention in
economic activity remained extensive. Stabilization and adjustment
performance has been mixed, particularly following the beginning of the civil
conflict in 1983. Throughout the 1980s, the government maintained a strong
role In the economy, domuiating the Import substituting industrial sector,
employing half of the non-agriculture labor force and accounting for half of
CDP. Production In agriculture grew slowly, influenced by policies of food
self-sufficiency ir ice and major staples, and government intervention in
export-crop agricultvre. Structural reform efforts accelerated after 1989 and
substantial progress has been achieved in the last three years.
A. Recent gconoMic Performance
1 02        Growth Performance. Although a severe drought adversely affected
agricultural output and hydroelectric production in the first half of 1992,
economic growth is expected at 4 percent to 5 percent reflecting strong growth
and private sector investment. Much of the improved growth performance in the
previous year (5 percent) arose from good weather, the abatement of
hostilities and increased private investment. While private manufacturing
continued to grow, public non-oil manufacturing sector output declined. Total
investment remained at about 22 to 23 perceni of GDP, but the balance between
public and private sector shares shifted, with public sector investment
dropping to about 9 percent of GDP. The current account deficit improved from
8.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to 5.4 percent in 1990, but increased again to 7.6
percent in 1991. Furthermore, the impact of higher priced oil due to the Gulf
crisis was moderated by (i) higher remittances by Middle Eastern migrant
workers, thus increasing private transferst and (ii) increased tea exports
(volume and price). These developments, coupled with increased die5ursements
of balace of payments aid, led to an overall balance r4rplus and increased
gross official reserve coverage to two months of imports. The balance of
payments performance in 1991 showed some weaskening due to a drop in tea prices
(a delayed effect of the Gulf crisis) and an increase in imports, especially
in consumer durables, reflecting a more liberalized import environment. These
factors and the purchase of an aircraft by Air Lanka increased the current
account deficit in 1991 to about 6.6 percent of GDP.
1.03        Fiscal Deficit.  The government's fiscal deficit improved from 16
percent of GDP in 1988 to 10 percent in 1990, but increased to almost 12
percent in 1991 due to unanticipated large security-related spending and the
high cost of severance packages for workers retrenched as part of public
sector restructuring. However, in 1992, the deficit improved to 8.6 percent



- 2 -
of GDP, and the government met the PFP fiscal targets. This improvement came
about, however, by suppressing public investments in lnfrastructure (a vell
as other areas), with potentially negative effects on private lnvestment.
1.04        Inflation, at 22 percent, was high in 1990, due to 1) the removal
of distortions in prices, ouch as the devaluation and elimination of
subsidies; (ii) higher imptrt costs induced partly by the Gulf crisis (oil
prices); and (iii) localized problems in production and transportation of
agricultural goods, particularly vegetables. Inflation had dropped to about
10 percent by October 1991, as these factors were short-term in their effect,
and increased to 11 percent in 1992. Inflationary expectations remain strong
however, reflecting concerns about continued government spending. Net
domestic bsnk borrowing by the government was larger than projected.
Moreover, the government has allowed private credit to grow as well. Thus,
the demand for credit showed no sign of abatement despite a real interest rate
rise from negative four percent in 1990 to a positive four to six percent in
1991. In 1991, the government did not retire credit to the domestic banking
system as anticipated, contributing to a 22 percent growth in domestic
liquidity, compared with the 15 percent target. The impact of the monetary
expansion was in part offset, however, by an increase in real interest rates
which became positive during the second half of 1991.
1.05        Monetary policy improved in the context of a new system of reserve
money management. Under the PFP, specific 14iits were imposed on credit to
several large public corporations and further actions were taken to limit
resident borrowing from foreign :urrency banking units. By June 1992,
monetary growth had decelerated to la percent On an annual basis. Despite
recent progress public enterprises continued to exrt economic and financial
pressures on the domestic resource base. Public enterprise borrowing led to
the precar .ous portfolio position of the state-owned financial institutions.
Moreover, the budgetary support together with persisting state interference in
enterprise management crowded out private sector activity.
1.06        External sector develonments mirror fiscal performance.  The
current account deficit was reduced from 8.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to 5.4
percent in 1990, but increased again in 1991 to 7.5 percent of GDP. In 1992
external sector developments were in line with the targeted reduction in the
current account deficit to about 6.4 percent of GDP.  Imports surged during
the first seven mowihs of 1992, reflecting Increased grain imports--a result
of the drought--and increased demand for Imported investment goods. Stronger
growth in textiles and other industrial exports offset the drought-related
decline in tes exports. In addition, with high levels of capital (mostly aid)
inflows9 gross official reserves strengthened to 3.4 months of imports,
reaching by October the end-1992 target. With a comfortable reserve position
and a debt service of 17.6 percent of exports, Sri Lanka can sustain the
liberalization of the trade and service accounts by mid-1993 agreed under the
ESAF.
1.07        Bxorts. Despite an observable shift of resources into relative
labor-intensive manufacturing, and high growth rates, exports remain narrowly
based on few products: tea, rubber, and clothing, which has become Sri
Lanka's primary export.  Moreover, littl  diversification within these



- 3 -
categories has taken place. Tea continues to be exported in its least
processed form, and the share of higher value-added garments in total garment
exports remains insignificant. A larger share of high vAlue items is needed
to make export flows less vulnerable to external developments, and export
receipts more responsive to economic incentives rather than special trade
arrangements. Export prices of Sri Lankan garments have increased relatively
less than prices of imported textiles, the major intermediate input to the
garment Industry and Sri Lanka has suffered a marked deterioration in its
international terms of trade (about 15 percentage points) between 1985 and
1991. With tea and rubber prices falling in 1991 and 1992 the country has not
been able to realise gains from lower petroleum and food prices. High levels
of external aid and worker remittances helped neutralize these adverse
movements.
1.08        External Aid.  In both 1990 and 1991, aid disbursements were 8
percent of GNP, exceeding the current account deficit, and well above the 2.8
percent of GNP average for low income countries. The 1990-91 levels of aid to
Sri Lanka have been helpful in the short-term but are not sustainable in the
medium-term. Thus Sri Lanka should coninue with its structural reforms to
safeguard competitiveness.
1.09        Development of Infrastructure.  Reduction in public spending has
been achieved tarough reductions in the level of public investment. Although
this was necessary initially, the cuts may have been so drastic that
infrastructure and provision of basic social services have lagged,
jeopardiziug the development of private sector activity and long term social
balance. Furthermore, some retained public investments are not based on
efficiency criteria and nay not be necessary for ensuring a successful
development program. There is room to improv, the efficiency of public
investment towards the support of activities that promote long-term social
balance, facilitate private sector growth, and complement private investment.
To promote industrial development for exports, a furtber concentration of
production activities in the Greater Colombo area may be unavoidable and the
strategy for infrastructure investment developed accordingly. To diversify
agriculture and give it a greater export orientation, access to markets and
market information vill be key. Priority areas should include the
establishment of a well-maintained intercity road network; developing
commercial refrigerated transportation and storage systems; and improving the
quality and coverage of the domestic and international telecommunication
systems.
1.10        Efforts for Poverty Reduction.  The strong focus of Sri Lankasf
development strategy on human resources is reflected in unusually good social
indicators, and high standard of living, relative to its level of per capita
income. A variety of welfare or "safety net" programs justified by the
government on explicit poverty alleviation grounds have used large portions of
public funds but have been generally poorly targeted. A Poverty Assessment,
currently under preparation, will review the efficiency of these programs and
examine Whether the fiscal adjustment has bad (or is likely to have)
significant adverse effects on basic social services critical to the poor,
especially primary health care and general education.



-4-
B. Towards Macroeconomic Stabilty
1.11        Macroeconomic performance has been improving since 1989, when
adjustment efforts resumed and a stabilization program wae put in place. This
program, reflected in the second- and third-year PlPs, included an across-the-
board cut in budgetary outlays, removal of major agricultural subsidies, and a
significant devaluation. The government pledged to privatize all commercially
oriented public enterprises and reduce central sad provincial government staff
by ten percent. IDA supported these actions with the first Economic
Restructuring Credit, approved in May 1990, and the Public Manufacturitg
Enterprises Adjustment Credit (PHEAC), approved in November 1990. In 1991,
the unfortunate pattern of adopting bold policy reforms followed by a period
of hesitancy reappeared. Macroeconomic management weakened, undermining
progress on economic stabilization. High expenditures associated with the
civil conflict in the North and the East and the costs related to the 1990
civil service retrencement brought government expenditures to 31.8 percent of
GDP, up from 31 percent In 1990, but still well below the peak of 34.5 percent
in 1988. Notwithstanding an adequate revenue effort, the fiscal deficit
Increased to 11.5 percent of GDP in 1991. Despite slippages, inflation was
reduced from about 22 percent in 1990 to 12.2 percent in 1991, while growth in
mnn-conflict areas exceeded 6 percent in 1990 and approached 5 percent in
1991.
1.12        Prudent economic management was reinstated in early 1992.  The
government implemented fiscal and monetary measures necessary for achieving
the fifth-year PFP macroeconomic objectives. Monetary and external
developments continue to be favorable and as of November 1992 all PEP targets
were met. Monetary policy has improved with the elimination of credit
ceilings and the adoption of a new system of reserve money management.
Domestic liquidity growth declined from 22 percent at end-1991 to an
annualized rats of about 10 percent through the third quarter of 1992, despite
a substantial increase in net foreign assets. This was brought about by a
sharp reduction in public sector credit. Specific limits were imposed on
credit to several large public corporations and further actions were taken to
limit resident borrowing from foreign currency banking units. Inflation
remained stable in 1992, fluctuating between 10 percent and 11 percent average
annual rate, slightly above the PIP target of 10.2 percent. Fiscal policy
also appears on track and the preliminary estimates for the 1992 budget year
are in line with a deficit of less than 9 percent of GDP. Although a severs
drought adversely affected agricultural output and hydroelectric production in
the first half of the year, economic growth in 1992 is estimated at about 4.5
percent reflecting strong export growth and private sector investment.
1.13        Sri Lanka has followed a mixture of the interventionist policy
approach of most South Asian economies and the export-led growth fueled by
private investment of the East-Asian countries. In the last three years the
need to accelerate reforms to encourage private sector export-led growth has
been recognized. This translates into three inter-related objectivess (i)
the reduction of macroeconomic imbalances; (ii) the development of efficient
private sector activities; and (iII) the balancing of welfare distribution
across ethnic groups and regions. Sri Lanka has made initial progress ln the
rationalization of public sector expenditures, the most significant source of



- - 
macroeconomic Imbalances, and In setting up a framework for more efficient
private sector resource allocation and economic management.
1.14       Sustainable, export-led growth requires the government to (1)
maintain tight mcroaconomic manageet, particularly in the area of fiscal
management; (it) continue to rationalize the public sector; (iii) move forward
ith the rationalization of poverty reductioa programs and (iv) provide an
appropriate environment for private sector investment. A primary objective is
to boost the role of market-determined inctntives in resource allocation.
Revenue mobilization efforts need to rely on Improved tax administration and
taz reforms which broaden the tax base and increase the system's efficiency.
Close consultation with the D1P Is expected for exchange rate management to
assure end maintain export competitiveness.
C.  Touads a Prlvate Sector-Led Oen IcononM
1.15       A prlmry objective of the reform in recent years has been to
advance the role of the private sector and of market-determined incentives in
resource allocation. ince 1990, the domestic economy has been gradually
exposed to increased competition from asroad by the significant reduction in
the scope of non-tariff barriers to trade and lower nominal tariffs. This has
allowed for domestic price decontrols, reduction in state monopolies, and
removal of consuer subsidies. The pritciples for a major tax reform have
been defined and reforms initiated for correcting relative price distortions
rooted tn the tax regime.
1.16       in spite of the civil conflict and policies that at times have
raised perceived lv estment risks, the private sector has become the principal
source of income and employment growth. Gross fixed private investment
increased from 10.7 percent of GDP in 1988 to 14.4 percent in 1991. The share
of gross manufacturing exports in total exports increased from 32 percent in
1980 to 60 percent in 1991. Not g8rment exports almost doubled between 1989
and 1990 but stagnated in 1991 and again in 1992 as local value added lagged
behind increases in input prices. Since 1990, the domestic economy has been
gradually exposod to increased competition from abroad by significant
reduction in the scope of ro-tariff barriers to trade and lower nominal
tariffs. Exposure to international competition has allowed for domestic price
decontrols, reduction In state monopolies, and removal of most consumer
subsidies.
1.17       Sinc  the 1st major devaluation in September 1989, the government
has followod cautious external payment. policies. The rupee depreciated
against the US dollar by about 6 percent, In nominal terms, during 1991 and by
a further 3 percent in the first half of 1992; in real effective terms, the
exchange rate appreciated by about 3.5 percent between end-1990 and June 1992.
since theon ecbhange rate istability in neighboring countries and in Europe
(particularly the devaluation of the pound sterling), bave again raised
questions on the adequacy of exchange rate realignments for the country's
competitiveness and export drive. In mid-December the pace of the nominal
devaluation of the rupee accelerated substantilly.



- 6 -
1.18        The expectation is that fiec-.l policy will continue to be aimed at
reducing the overall deficit and achieving a surplus on current operations.
The overall fiscal deficit reduction, would allow a reduction In the
government's domestic financing requirements and help meet the needs of an
expanding private sector. To achieve these objectives and concurrently reduce
the inflation rate from 12 percent in 1991 to 8 percent in 1993 and 6 percent
by 1995, the government vill adopt a restrained stance on monetary policy.
1.19        Efforts to stimulate private sector investment are dependent for
their success on an efficiently functioning financial sector. Priority should
be attached to reducing the inefficiencies in the exiating financial
institutions, most notably, the two State-Owned Comercial Banks (SCB).
Other reforms (as discussed in the following chapters) include developing the
bond markets to provide a mechanism for domestic resource mobilization;
improving enforcement of accounting and auditing standardst strengthening the
banking supervision function at the CBSL; and facilitating debt recovery.
D. IDA Stgratev and Rationale fo Involvement
1.20        Sri Lanka's overall macroeconomic reform package is being
supported by the IKR (through an ESAP) and the Bank through its ongoing and
proposed adjustment operations. The promotion of Sri Lanka's industrial and
financial sector has long been an objective of IDA's sectoral policy. The
Financial Institutions study, conducted by IDA in 1991, in conjunction with
the interim reports of the COSL's Presidential Commission on Banking and
Finance, further defined the changing role of the financial sector and
outlined the necessary sequence of reforms. Prior to 1977, IDA pursued its
limited industrial and financial sector objective's through four intermediary
operations channelled through DPCC. However, after 1977, ID.s lending
operations progressed from direct financial intermediation to a muiti-
institutional financial sector approach, with operations channelled through
two specialized DPIs - 1DB and DICC. Since 1979, when IDA approved the first
of its more sectoral focused operations, intermediary operations have been
used as a vehicle for policy and institutional reform programs   Each project
has supported the development and implementation of the GOSL's evolving
program of trade and industrial reform. Apart from the Second Small and
Medium Industries Project (SMI-II, Cr. 1182-CE) which was affected by civil
disturbances in the southern provinces and initial problems with loan pricing,
all of the projects have been disburbed ahead of schedule, with a cumulative
collection rate of more than 80 percent. The SMI projects alone have been
instrumental in creating more than 65,000 jobs at a relatively low capital
cost, particularly in areas of non-traditional exports.
1.21        PCREs and PPAR. for the pre-1977 operations noted that the projects
had provided valuable insight into the working of a small DPI and financial
intermediary operation in an expanding liberalized financial system. The
PPARs indicated that the Bank-group financing was particularly Important in
the development of the industrial sector and had helped catalyze the program
of trade and industrial policy reform that vere to come. The most recently
completed industrial projects focused mainly on the initial actions necessary
to develop the tariff reform program, rationalize the industrial and export
incentive structures, improve the overall operational viability of the two



DFIs and broadening the number of financial intermediaries. A 1991 OED
report' noted that the Sri Lanka SMI projects had succeeded in attaining the
anticipated flow of credit to the target group of borrowers, although where
funds have moved slowly (SKI-I) this has been due to depressed business
conditions, and not to any faulty assessment of particular demand or of PCI
capacity. The ORD report also noted that the SMI projects also generated a
high level of resource additionality.
:.22        The last of the intermediation projects (SMI-IV, SDR 33.3 million)
became effective on September 30, 1991. Although the two SCBs have been
excluded since April 1992 from further commitments of subprojects from SHI-IV
because of their failure to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements, both
commitments and disbursements have been proceeding ahead of schedule (about 40
percent is committed and more than 20 percent disbursed). In addition,
several policy reforms includings (i) reduction of SCB'e shareholdiug in DFCC;
(ii) provisioning policies to be adopted by the PCI.; (iii) introduction of
AWDR as a reference rate; (iv) completion of the first phase in strengthening
the debt recovery legislation; (v) refining reserve requirements and removal
of credit ceilings; (vii) establishing a credit information bureau; and (vi)
strengthening of the accounting regulatory framework have already been
completed. Other reforms such as the privatization of NDB, rationalization
and restructuring of NSB and the ICSL, and strengthening Bank supervision and
regulation are progressing satisfactorily.
1.23        The Proposed Proiect.  IDA has, for some time, been pursuing a
policy reform dialogue with the GOSL aimed at further strengthening of the
financial sector. Although a number of important actions have already been
taken as noted above, further reforms are needed to increase mobilization of
domestic resources for term investments by the private sector and reduce the
detrimental effects of Treasury borrowings at managed rates. IDA will support
reforms of the policy and regulatory environment in the 4inancial sector,
especially the revitalization of nonbank financial institutions, the
development of an efficient market for public and private debt instruments and
the expansion of the private banking sector. The GOSL is now ready to
inplement the steps necessary to address these issues and the proposed project
will support these reforms.
1.24        Although the financial performance of the two DFIs, DPCC and 1DB,
has been commendable, they have remained dependent on the GOSL and
multilateral donors for funding. Until recently, they have focused their
activities on term lending, making them particularly vulnerable to
macroeconomic changes and increased competition engendered by the GOSL's
financial sector liberalization. There is a need to develop a clear plan to
broaden the resource base and activities of both institutions. Both
institutions have made limited progress in this regard; however, further
diversification of their activities has been constrained by the GOSL's
dominant sbareholding ln 5DB and the SCB's shareholding in DFCC. In 1991, the
shareholding of each of the SCBs' in DFCC was further reduced to 15 percent.
11 World Bank Support for Small and Nedium Scale Industry in Selected
Countries.



NDB was privatized in March 1993 with Institutional participation of the ADD,
CDC, Citicorp and the NIP. The reforms, supported through the proposed
project, are expected to help the DPis begin to develop alternative sources of
funds for their operations.
1.25       A major remaining concern in the financial sector is the
performance of the two SCBs - BOC and PB who dominate the banking system in
terms of size and act as market leaders in establishing interest rates. The
banks are being used to funnel off-budget subsidies to commercially non-viable
sectors of the economy. Based on a 1991 external audit it is estimated that
an infusion of more than Rs 24 billion is required to recapitalize these two
banks to internationally accepted standards. Private sector ownership,
combined with professional management and a commercial focus, would be the
most effective way of addressing these problem_. Nowever, political
constraints have prevented the COSL from privatizing the SCBs. While this
remains a medium term objective-of the GOSL, the OSL has decided to undertake
a number of interim measures which would lend a commercial focus to the SCBs,
and legal and administrative reforms are being implemented. These includo
dealing with existing "bad" loans, reconstituting the Board of Directors while
providing increased autonomy, requiring that the SCBs provide plans detailing
how quarterly profitability targets would be achieved, improving credit
standards and efficient allocation of manpower including reducing employee
costs and measures to I=,rove staff utilization.
1.26        SCBs will not be eligible for participation under the proposed
credit. The ongoing reforms are expected to help address some of the problems
facing the SCBs but are unlikely to remove ths major causes of poor
performance, particularly government interference. A number of the remaining
private comsercial banks and the two privatized DFIs are sufficiently strong
and experienced in investment finance to carry out the objectives of this
project. This will also assist the private sector commercial banks and the
DFIs to increase their market share of profitable commercial term lending.
1.27       Role of IFC and MIGA.  IDA's support for private sector
development is being pursued with 1FC's cooperation and involvement. Bank and
IFC staff are currently cooperating in the preparation of a Private Sector
Assessment, to establish a commonly-agreed base for action. IPC is
intensifying its business promotion efforts, focusing on promising export
sectors (gems, ceramies, garments, food processing, etc.) to expand its
portfolio of six projects. It is also assisting the government in the area of
privatization (e.g., Air Lanka), is active in capital market development (a
venture capital fund was approved in FY91 and a unit trust in FY92) and is
providing assistance for the commercialization of pension funds and insurance
companies and for developing a secondary market in government bonds. The NIGA
Foreign Investment Advisory Services staff have assisted the government in
redrafting foreign investment guidelines and in implementing a more effective
investment promotion strategy.
II. THE IUDISTRIAL SECTOR
2.01        Although Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base, the
manufacturing sector accounts for about 15 percent of GDP and 45 percent of



total exports. The sector's structure, except for relatively recent and rapid
growth in garment manufacturing, has remained relatively unchanged. Large
enterprises, mainly public corporations, are concentrated in cement,
chemicals, petroleum, textiles, steel and wood products. There are about 30
medium to large scale public manufacturing enterprises (PM8s) which are in the
process of being privatized. The private manufacturing sector consists of
more than 400 large-scale, 6,000 small- to medium-scale, and 95,000 small
agro-industrial handicraft and industrial service units.
2.02        The GOSL policy has had a significant impact on industrial
performance. The first set of measures taken in 1977 towards liberalization
of trade and industry initially contributed to strong industrial growth,
although the real rate of growth in industry slowed to an annual average of 6
percent in the decade 1978-88. The appreciation of the exchange rate after
1978 adversely affected the production of traded goods, however, import
tariffs and quantitative restrictions continued to provide high and varied
protection for the manufacturers. Due to the size of the local market, the
growth opportunities created by these inward looking policies were limited.
Since 1979, however, the GOSL and IDA have worked closely through a number of
operations to develop and implement a phased program of industrial policy
reform. The focus of the reform program was on: rationalization of tariffsl
removal of import licensing requirements; reduction of foreign exchange
controls; elimination of quotas/bans on imports of non-agricultural products;
and privatization of public manufacturing enterprises.
2.03        There has been a wide variation in the performance of the public
and private sector enterprises. During 1977-89, public manufacturing
enterprise production grew at an annual rate of about 1 percent in real terms,
compared to more than 13 percent per year for private enterprises. During the
last two years this disparity has grown wider. The private sector is
dominated by garments and leather products (almost 35 percent) while food,
beverages and tobacco account for almost 40 percent of the balance. The value
of industrial output, which grew by 14 percent in real terms in 1990,
increased by another 10 percent n 1991 (the 1991 growth was due entirely to
the private sector). The public sector output in 1991 declined by 8 percent
largely due to a sharp drop in production of the Ceylon Leather Products,
Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and the National Textile Corporation - the last
two together accounted for more than 75 percent of the total public sector
output. In contrast, the private industrial sector grew by about 14 percent.
While the private sector recorded substantial increaseos in the output of
textiles, wearing apparel and leather products, largely as a result of the
rapid expansion of the export oriented garment industry, public sector output
of the same goods registered a decline. A similar trend has been observed in
the case of food, beverages and tobacco where the public sector output
declined by about 20 percent as well as in chemicals, petroleum, rubber and
plastic products. The public sector enterprises that recorded an increase in
output during 1991 were Distilleries Company (57 percent), Ceylon Steel (39
percent), National Paper (16 percent), Sri Lanka Cement (9 percent) and State
Mining and Mineral (6 percent). Distilleries and most of the assets of the
State Mining and Mineral have since been privatixed. The total budgetary
transfer to public sector Industrial enterprises during the year was about Rs
40 million - a decrease of more than 60 percent compared to the previous year.



- 10 -
This amount was received entirely by the National Textile Corporation as
capital transfers.
2.04        Since 1989 the COSL has taken measures to rationalize the public
sector and improve the economy's overall efficiency. The divestitur6 of
various public enterprises, the "peoplization" of the bus company, and the
private management contracts of tree-crop plantations have increased the
sector's efficiency and reduced the burden on the budget. Based on the
recommendations of the Administration Reform Committee, the GOSL is continuing
with further divestiture of commercially oriented public enterprises and
corporations. IDA has provided assistance for GOSL's overall economic reforms
through two adjustment operations (ERC-I and PMIEAC) and is expected to
continue its assistance through further adjustment lending.
2.05        Sri Lanka boasts a strategic location and low to moderate vages -
yet there is a paucity of foreign direct investments (PDI). While the civil
conflict is partly to blame, the lack of consistent, coordinated policies
coupled with approval procedures are also responsible. With a view to
increasing FDI inflows further in the domestic economy, the government has,
since 1989, taken several steps aimed at strengthening the policy environment
for FDI. The gathering momentum of economic reform gave a new rise to FDI
promotion. It was recognized that past policies emphasizing FDI promotion
mainly within the export processing zones (EPZs) no longer met the increased
demand of the economy. The valuable resources (surplus of an educated and
potentially productive labor force) remains largely under-exploited, partly
due to the relative scarcity of capital and technological resources at home.
In this context, the GOSL has requested assistance from the Foreign Investment
Advisory Services (FIAS) in developing a new investment promotion strategy,
building upon earlier PIAS assistance on the FDI policy environment. The
study will provide a framework for a more focused promotion strategy based on
the country's sources of comparative advantage, policy environment for FDI and
the institutional framework needed to carry out ane facilitate promotion
activities.
2.06        The GOSL industrialization strategy is aimed at further improving
the overall economic outlook and, more specifically the prevailing business
climate. The GOSL hes identified four primary objectives: (i) transform the
domestically oriented industry to an export oriented one; (ii) provide greater
employment and income opportunities to a growing population; (iii) diversify
the economy and strengthen the balance of payments; and (iv) ensure a more
equitable distribution of wealth, thereby Improving the quality of life for
the people. The strategies, to assist in attaining these objectives are: (i)
adopt prudent macro-economic policies in order to stabilize the economy,
contain inflation and promote productive economic activity; (ii) grant special
incentives for investments and exports, wherever the general economic
incentives are considered inadequate; (iii) mobilize greater savings - both
domestic and foreign; (iv) encourage foreign investment with a view to
increasing capital inflows, acquiring technology and achieving market access;
(v) establish neutrality between public and private sector ownership, reform
public enterprises by commercialization, peoplization and contracting out
management; (vi) promote export oriented industries by special incentives and
by making existing industries internationally competitlve; (vii) establish



- 11 -
linkages between large investore/industri,s end small producers, particularly
to promote exports and small industrial activity and to ensure that benefits
of development are better distributed among the peoplet (viii) promote more
research and training of human resources and raise the productivity of labor;
and (ix) remove administrative barriers by eliminating the need for
entrepreneurs to seek admiuistrative clearances such as import licenses,
permits, etc.
2.07        At the request of the GOSL, IDA and JIAS have advised the
Government on the need to reduce the use of tax and other special incentives
sad to increase its efforts in facilitation, improving market incentives,
deregulation of economic activity and liberalization of factor markets. In a
country with strong socialist practices, private sector development is not
easy. Yet, this is the way the government has chosen t3 achieve its goal to
join the ranks of "Newly Industrialized Countries" (NICe). Sri Lanka has
undertaken trade policy reforms well ahead of other countries in the region.
The GOSL is also beginning to address some of the other issues related to
bureaucratic procedures, cumbersome legislation, and deterrent labor laws and
regulations. These reforms, coupled with the steps already undertaken by the
GOSL, will move Sri Lanka towards its objective of faster export-led growth.
111. THE JINANCIAL SECTOR
3.01        Sustained economic growth requires a financial sector that
efficiently mobilizes and allocates financial resources to areas where returns
are highest. Sri Lanka's financial institutions are relatively diverse and
sophisticated and are capable of reaching private borrowers with at least
short-term working capital lending. Yet, there are a number of problems - the
large size of the two SCBe and its effect on the sector3 inability to mobilize
loag-term domestic resources for term-lending; weaknesses in debt recovery
legislation; lack of enforcement of accounting and auditing standards; and
insufficient banking supervision. These issues and their effect on the
development of the financial sector are discussed in the following paragraphs.
A. Overview and Policy Framework
3.02        Sri Lanka's commercial banking system, although relatively
sophisticated and diverse, is dominated by two SCBs, Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and
Peoples Bank (PB), which still control about 60 percent of the banking
system's total loans and advances (down from 75 percent in 1980). In addition
to the two SCBs, the banking system includes the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
four private domestic commercial banks, 17 foreign banks, a National Savings
Bank (EBB), 12 regional rural development banks (RRDBs), two development
finance institutions and a state mortgage and investment bank (SMIB). Finance
companies have undergone a difficult period and have been reduced in number
from about 70 a few years ago to 27. There are also government-sponsored
provident funds -- the Employees' Provident Fund (EPP), the Employees' Trust
Fund (ETI), and a number of private provident funds. The EPF, ETP, NSB and
the insurance companies mobilize large pools of long-term resources, which
have largely gone toward financing the government budget to date. The Sri
Lankan financial system, despite its size and sophistication, still remains



- 12 -
largely under the influence of the government. Capital markets -- equity and
bonds -- remain small and undeveloped.
3.03        Between 1989 and 1991 total domestic credit increased at an
average rate of 9.4 percent. The private sector captured an increasing share
of this credit, rising from 50 percent as of December 1990 to 57 percent in
December 1991. Although the credit to the goverrment grew more slowly than
that to the private sector, a substantial portion of government credit
consisted of loans and advances from CBSL. This increase, coupled with an
increase of about five percent from the commercial banking sector, resulted in
an expansionary impact on monetary aggregates. Government credit growth,
which had been minimal in 1989 sad 1990, increased to about 16 percent in
1991, fueled by a larger than expected government deficit. Inflation rose to
about 22 percent in 1990 but has since abated to 11.4 percent as of November
1992. While inflation began to drop in 1991 because of chnges In
administered prices, the growth of government credit in 1991 provided a new
impetus to refueling inflation. Reining in expenditures and tightening
control over monetary conditions, therefore, are critical to reducing
inflation and maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework for private
investment.
3.04        Interest rates in Sri Lanka are largely market-determined,
particularly for short-term lending and deposits. However, the two SCBs are
also the market leaders in establishing interest rates. The large levels of
non-performing loans and high administrative costs in these two banks have
lead to significant intermediation costs resulting in higher interest rates
throughout the financial sector. Pending the development of a more market-
determined rate for allocation of funds, the government introduced the use of
the Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate (AfPR) as the market reference for
term lending operations. This was later cbanged to AWDR to reflect the direct
cost of mobilizing funds.  As of December 31, 1992, the AUDR stood at 13.9
percent. At present, interest rates are positive in real terms and remain
high due to continued inflationary expectations, high demand for credit from
both the public and private sector and the high intermediation costs of the
SCBs which dominate the market. Annex 3 outlines developments in 13y interest
rates over the past six years.
3.05        During 1991, the Central Bank took several steps to curb monetary
expansion. The policy measures included an upward revision of the Bank rate,
rationalization of refinance schemes, an increase in the non-interest bearing
cash reserve ratio of commercial banks and further use of open market
operations through the Treasury bill market   The Bank rate was increased from
15 percent to 17 percent in January 1991. In addition, the non-interest
bearing cash reserve ratio of commercial banks was increased from 10 to 13
percent on all types of deposit liabilities. At the same time, the facility
of holding part of the reserve requirement in the form of Treasury bills was
withdrawn to improve the effectiveness of the reserve requirement as a policy
instrument for monetary control rather than as an instrument for funding the
government. The open market operations remain modest, but further steps were
taken to enhance their use (the creation of a Monetary Operations Unit in the
CBSL, restricting the use of the "tap" system to individuals, excluding
captive sources from bidding at the prinary auctions). The Central Bank has



- 13 -
continued to auction Treasury bills on a weekly basis in the primary market
and yields have been allowed to reflect market conditions. At the time of
appraisal, the GOSL had started to issue small smounts of longer term debt.
B. TIMMncial Sector Issues
3.06        Domestic Resource Mobilization for Term Lendin..  Virtually all
financial institutions in Sri Lanka with access to primary term savings are
publicly controlled and invest their funds on either a short-term basis or in
longer dated public securities issued at managed rates. There is little
secondary market activity and the institutions normally hold the securities to
maturity. Insufficient access to term savings,-,lack of a secondary market in
debt instruments and virtually no market determined pricing of longer dated
public securities make it difficult for private1entrepreneurs to obtain
domestically funded term loans. Thus, funds provided through multilateral
agencies have been the major source of term lending through commercial
channels.
3.07        In order to facilitate the development of an efficient market for
the issuance of both public and private debt instruments, a series of reforms
need to be implemented. The near-term objective of these reforms is to
develop market-driven procedures for the issuance of debt instruments and the
removal of the requirement for publicly controlled savings institutions to
invest virtually all their funds in public securities. At the same time, the
development of a trading and settlement infrastructure and regulatory
framework is necessary to develop a market in such instruments with sufficient
depth and liquidity to encourage the mobilization of domestic savings and
their use in financing productive investments.
3.08        The outstanding longer-dated instruments have been issued mainly
to a captive market of publicly controlled institutions at administered
prices. The GOSL, however, has issued Treasury bills of maturities up to one
year on a somewhat competitive basis for more than a year. This system of
issuing treasury debt2 involves an artificial segmentation of public debt
into maturity components and results in a distorted pattern of yields on long
vs. short-term public debt, thus sending inaccurate economic signals to other
public and private issuers of debt instruments.
3.09        In its efforts to lengthen the maturity structure of its
competitively priced debt instruments, the GOSL modified the legislation
governing the issuance of Treasury bills to permit issuance of Treasury bills
of maturities longer than a year. The CBSL has successfully auctioned small
amounts of Treasury bills of longer maturities (2 year term) since October
1992. During November 1992, the GOSL modified the legislation governing the
issue of Rupee Securities to allow for the issue of coupon-bearing Treasury
securities through competitive procedures and has indicated its intention to
at   Treasury bills have been issued on market basis without coupon with
maturities up to one year. Rupee Securities have been issued for
maturities longer than one year, with a coupon rate arrived at
administratively.



- 14 -
continue to increase both the volume as well as the maturity (3 and 4 year
terms) of these Instruments. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the OOSL on its commitment to increasing the maturity structure of its
competitively priced debt instruments (both Treasury bills and Rupee
Securities) In a manner that will result in at least four billion Rupees worth
of these securities (competitively priced and with maturity longer than a
year) to be issued within one year of Project effectiveness. This volume will
then be increased to at least Rupees ten billion within thirty months of
Project effectiveness.
3.10        To enable the COSL and CBSL to successfully carry out the program
of lengthening the maturity structure of competitively priced debt
instruments, efforts are initially required tot (i) make the necessary changes
in the regulations governing the operation of primary and secondary
dealerships to promote the development of secondary markets; (vi) define the
treasury calendar; (iii) ensure that sufficient volumes are placed in the
market to sustain secondary trading and to establish a meaningful yield curve.
Technical assistance is already being provided through the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York to address such matters as instrument design, dealer
regulations, auction systems and withholding taxes (see annex 13 for detailed
terms of reference). The GOSL has indicated its intention to implement the
required changes as soon as the technical work is completed. Rupee Securities
Ordinance is expected to be modified before July 1993. A detailed timetable
for implementation of the remaining program will be developed within six
months of the Project effectiveness including establishing a task force and
devising an action plan to automate the post-trade handling of all Treasury
paper transactions.
3.11        Contractual Savints Institutions.  Sri Lanka's contractual savings
institutions' have successfully raised large pools of long-term capital.
However, they are engaged in reverse term transformation, wherein they invest
long-term funds almost exclusively in short-term securities, thus diverting
scarce long-term resources available in Sri Lanka. The current investment
directives undermine the potentially valuable role these institutions can play
in mobilizing long-term funds for further development of the industrial
sector.
3.12        As of December 31, 1991, the two major employee funds, the EPF and
ETF, had about Rs 52 billion (US$1.2 billion) in assets. Government
directives, however, have required that nearly all of this money be invested
in short-term government securities. The average monthly net inflow into
these two institutions is more than Rs 700 million. The growth in assets of
these two funds represents a pool of long-term resources that can be
effectively channeled to provide term finance for productive investment in Sri
Lanka. Therefore, a revision in the investment policies of the pension funds
and insurance companies is needed to allow for appropriate diversification
A/   The term "contractual savings institutions" refers collectively to the
Employees' Provident Fund, the Employees' Trust Fund, the National
Savings Bank and the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka.



- 15 -
and, to the extent appropriate, provide funding to the private sector for new
investuent.
3.13        The SPY, instituted in 1958, is administered by the Department of
Labor and funded by contributions from employers and employees. Every
employer and employee wmut contribute either to the EPP or an approved private
provident fund. Employees can withdraw funds only at retirement; however,
they can benefit by borrowing against their accounts prior to retiremet.
Currently, employer contributions amount to 12 percent, with the employee
contributing 8 percent of the employees' salary. It covers almost five
million employees and more than 80,000 employers.
3.14        At the end of 1991, EPY had about Re 46 billion in total assets,
more than 85 percent of which vere invested in Rupee Securities and debentures
sold by the State Mortgage and Investment Bank (SMIB). During 1991, the
average monthly net inflow wa almost Re 680 million and the reported return
on assets was 11.5 percent. The funds are invested under the direction of the
Monetary Board (MB). The investment policies are decided in consultation with
the MOT.  The MOF reviews the GOSL's requirements for budgetary financing, and
requests the MB to invest specified amounts in government securities. Thus,
the pressure to reduce interest costs and finance the government deficit has
taken precedence over maximizing the return to employees covared under the
SPY.  Consequently, the SPF has reported negative real returns to its members
over the past few years.
3.15        The ITF, established in 1981, is administered by the Employees'
Trust Fund Board and is funded by contributions from employers (3 percent of
the employees' salaries). Employees can withdraw funds upon termination of
their existing employment. The average net monthly inflow is more than it 30
million. STF reported a rate of return of 12.5 percent in 1991. The IT!
Board is responsible for its investment portfolio. Although in principle STF
is autonomous and free to invest in shares, securities and other assets in
order to maximize return to its members, it has been directed to invest a
minimum of 70 percent of its investible funds in Treasury bills. Its board
consists largely of members appointed by the GOSL. As of September 31, 1992,
ETF had about Re 6.45 billion in total assets, mostly invested in Treasury
bills (57 percent), housing finance institutions (19 percent) and Defense
bonds and Rupee Loans (13 percent).   Although eight percent of its portfolio
is comprised of equities, thess securities are largely investments in public
sector companies. Due to a lack of expertise in investment analysis and
portfolio management, the Fund has been extremely risk averse. Recently, in
an effort to diversify its holdings, it decided to appoint 3 fund managers to
manage portfolios of Re 100 million each on a commercial basis.
3.16        The National Savings Bank (NSB) was established in 1971 by
amalgamating the Ceylon Savings Bank, the Post Office Savings Bank and the
Savings Certificate Fund. Its diverse branch network and the post office
savings help mobilize deposits throughout the country. As of June 30, 1992,
it had more than Rs 30 billion (US$652 million) in its investment portfolio
with almost 45 percent invested in securities and about 37 percent in Treasury
bills. Deposits were backed by a government guarantee, (and earning, on these
were tax exempt), allowing the NSB to enjoy a high level of public confidence.



- 16 -
Despite the withdrawal of the tax benefit in April 1991, Its deposit base
continues to grow.
3.17        N8B's investment guidelines mondate that it. Snvestments In
securities, stocks, debentures and Treasury bills of, or gusranteed by, the
GOSL shall constitute no less than 60 percent of its deposits and savings
accounts. The MOF is permitted to change this percentage by order published
in the Gaxette. The NS3 has, however, become another source of captive funds
for the GOSL and invested in long-term government securities with below market
yields. The losses incurred by the N83 were partially compensated by the GOSL
by means of a subsidy. Since 1989, the proportion of Rupee Securities in the
investment portfolio of the NSB has decllned and the proportion invested In
Treasury bills has increased. The NS3 has also taken limited Initiatives to
iiversify its investments to debentures and shares, resulting In an increase
in the average return on investment (15 percent in 1991 vs. 14 percent in
1990). NSB expects to sustain itself without the GOSL subsidy, which was
phased out in 1992.
3.18        The Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka (ICSL) is the largest of
the five insurance companies (two public and three private) operating in Sri
Lanka, with a market share of about 65 percent. In December 1992, it was
converted into a company operating under the Companies Act, with a view to
eommence privatixation by December 1993. All five insurers conduct both life
and general insurance business. The substantial long-term resources mobilized
by the insurance industry are a captive source of funds for the GOSL. The
investment guidelines of the two public sector insurers were governed by the
respective laws under which they were established as well as by the GOSL
directives. The investments of the three private insurance companies are
governed by the Insurance Companies Act, which stipulates that at least 50
percent of the life and 30 percont of the general funds be Invested in
government guaranteed securities and the remainder In approved securities such
as public companies, 5MIB, EDPC and deposits with commercial banks. During
1991, virtually all of ICSL's investible funds were invested in Treasury
bills. At the end of 1991, its investment portfolio Included Treasury bills
(42 percent); equities -- mainly public sector enterprises (21 percent)g
defense bonds, rupee loans and housing finance (13 percent); and term deposits
in commercial banks (12 percent). At the end of 1991, it had total assets of
Re 5.7 billion, with an average monthly net inflow of Rs 40 million.
3.19        All of these publicly controlied contractual savings institutions
contributed to the diversion of term savings away from the private sector
through mandatory transfers to government securities. As part of its program
of financial sector reform, the GOSL's litention is to develop investment
guidelines for the rFf, ZTF, ICSL and NSB that allow for gradual
diversification of their investment portfolios and permitting t'ese
institutions to invest in non-government securities consistent with their
roles. Work on developing these guidelines is to commence after Project
effectiveness. EPP and ITF will invest at least 52 of their inflow in non-
government securities in 1993, increasing to at least 1OZ by June 1995. NSB
has already started the process of diversifying its investments. By the end
of 1993, at least 101 of its investments will be in non-govermment securities.
Thereafter, the proportions are to be increased in consultations with IDA and



- 17 -
in light of the experience galnd from the initial phase, with a view to
complete livestment autonomy for these lnstitutions within five year. of
i-roject effectiveness. At the end of this five year period, the proportion of
funds lnvested by these institutions In government securities will not be any
higher than what is consistent with the institution's independent investment
objective.
3.20        As the GOSL reduces its demand for mandatory investment in public
securities, these institutions will need to develop expertise in managing
their portfolios, including the formulation and implementation of investment
guidelines and a mechanism to control and monitor portfolio performance. The
proposed project supports a significant program of TA and training for these
institutions to enable them to carry out their changing responsibilities. It
will also support the development of a regulatory framework for the insurance
industry and provide assistance in the privatization process.
3.21        Government's Role in the Financial Sector.  Until 1969 Sri Lanka
did not have any private domestic commercial banks. BOC (created in 1939) and
PB (created in 1961) were the only two domestic commercial banks until CBOC
was created in 1969 as the first privately owned domestic commercial bank from
the operations of Standard Chartered (a foreign bank operating in Sri Lanka at
the time), followed by Hatton National Bank in 1970. There were no new
private commercial banks for another seventeen years until Sampath Bank was
established in 1987 and Seylan Bank in 1988. Along with the foreign banks,
the private domestic commercial banks now account for approximately 40 percent
of the market share of total advances, and the state-owned banks, although
still dominant players in the market, have been losing market share steadily.
A similar situation exists with DPI.. DPCC, created in 1956, reained under
significant public control through the 39 percent shareholding of BOC and PB
in the institution until 1991, when this holding was reduced to 31 percent
(further reduced to 30 percent In 1992). Also by 1992, public sector
representation in its board was reduced to four, out of eleven. NDB, the
other DPI in Sri Lanka, wa created in 1979 as a wholly public institution
allowing, until quite recently, a very daoinant and direct role for the public
sector in provision of long term finance. This role has steadily diminished
over the recent years with reduction of its influence on DFCC, and is expected
to be further reduced with the privatization of NDB.
3.22        Development Finance Comnanies.  DFCC's main objectives are "to
assist in the promotion, establishment, expansion and modernization of private
industrial agricultural and commercial enterprises in Sri lanka, and to
encourage and promote the participation of private capital, both internal and
external, in such enterprises*. From its modest beginnings with an initial
subscribed capital of Rs 8 million, its share capital increased to Rs 170
million In 1992 (a public issue was made in October 1991). At the end of its
fiscal year 1992, it had assets of more than Rs S billion and a record Re 266
million In profits. Its outstanding investment portfolio comprised 83 percent
loans, 7 percent investment securities, and 10 percent financial leases and
discounted bills.
3.23        The National Developmoent Bank (IDB) was established as a
development bank in 1979 by a special act of parliament with a subscribed



- 18 -
capital of more than Re 600 million. Its main objectives are "to promote the
industrial, agricultural, commercial and other development of the economy in
Sri Lanka having regard inter *Ila to the development of the rural
sector....", similar to those of the DFCC, except for the emphasis on the
rural sector. The IND was privatized in March 1993. At the end of 1991 it
had assets of Re 7 billion and net profit of Rs 250 million. Its return on
assets was 4.1 percent and return on equity of 15.3 percent.
3.24        Despite the initial concept of self-sustaining, multi-service
institutions, the DFIs involved in the project (DFCC and NDB) have remained
dependent on the GOSL and multilateral donors for funding, and until recently,
have focused their activities only on term lending, making them particularly
vulnerable to macroeconomic changes and increased competition engendered by
the GOSL's financial sector liberalization. Diversification programs
initiated by both the DFCC and NDB under previous intermediation projects have
attempted to address these concerns but there is a need to develop a clear
plan for broadening the resource base (e*g., through mobilization of term
savings, bond issues, capital subscription, etc.) and activities of both
institutions. Limited progress has been made in this respect; e.g., DFCC has
raised funds through the private placement of debentures and successfully
launched its first unit trust. It holds almost 30 percent of shares in a
venture capital company and is increasingly engaged in underwriting shares.
However, further diversification of activities has been constrained by the
GOSL's dominant shareholding in NDB and the SCB's shireholdings in DFCC. The
reforms supported through the proposed project are expected to help the DFIs
begin to develop alternative sources of funds for their operations.
3.25        State-Owned Commercial Banks.  Sri Lanka's two SCBs, BOC and PB,
dominate the banking system in terms of size and act as market leaders in
establishing interest rates. BOC, the largest bank in Sri Lanka (about 240
branches and almost 40 percent of total deposits), was established as a state-
aided bank in 1939 and operates under the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance. Most of
its branches (about 65 percent) are in the Greater Colombo and Randy
metropolitan areas. Its board is appointed by the MOF, and while it appears
to have autonomy in many operating areas, its decision making is often subject
to considerable political pressure. Since it was initially established with a
commercial orientation (mainly to serve trade and commerce), it has always had
a more urban focus, larger loans, more large industrial and public enterprise
clients, etc. than PB. It has two foreign branches and can thus provide a
vider range of services than PB. BOC also plays a more active role in inter-
bank lending, and is often the largest supplier of funds to that market.
3.26        PB was established in 1961 under the People's Bank Act in response
to the GOSL's desire to create a new apex bank to serve cooperatives and to
replace the Cooperative Federal Bank which had failed to combine commercial
banking operations with its cooperative support functions. Its formal
objectives (in the Act) do not include making profits or operating on a
financially viable basis. As an institution, its staff clearly have a more
"developmental" rather than commercial focus. PB has often acted more as a
goternment agent to implement programs such as Janasaviya, even if it
undermines its commercial viability. It has more than 300 branches, about 30



- 19 -
percent which are in urban areas. Since PB does very little "middle-market"
lending, its average deposit end loan sizes are smaller.
3.27        A recently completed external audit of the financial condition of
PB and BOC revealed that both institutions incurred large operating losses
and, as of December 31, 1991, were technically bankrupt. A capital infusion
of more than Re 24 billion is required to recapitalize these banks to
internationally accepted (BIS) standards as wall as to provide adequately for
their under-funded pension obligations. Moreover, PB and BOC have advanced
large sums of money to a number of state-owned businesses which hase defaulted
on their loans. The banks, in effect, are being used to funnei off-budget
subsidies to the sectors of the economy that are commercially non-viable.
3.28        Private sector ownership, combined with professional management
and a commercial focus, would be the most effective way of addressing these
problems. The GOSL, however, has been slow to embrace this strategy, citing
political constraints to privatization. To ensure that the SCBs become
commercially viable Institutions, the GOSL needs to: (i) amend the relevant
acts to enable the SCBs to function as autonomous commercial organizationsa
(ii) reconstitute the Board of Directors and nominate individuals from both
the private and public sector with commercial focus and a high degree of
professional experience; (iii) develop a mechanism to deal with the troubled
assets of the SCBs, which may involve establishing an agency to resolve non-
performing assets; (iv) establish and enforce performance criteria for the
SCMs; (v) require that the SCBs prepare action plans indicating quarterly
interim targets and how they will be achieved, efficient allocation of
manpower including voluntary retirement schemes, measures to improve staff
utilization ete (vi) improve appraisal procedures and management information
systems in the SCBs; (vii) establish branch level budgeting and accounting and
close loss-making branches. The GOSL believes that these measures, further
detailed in Annex 7, would lend a commercial focus to the SCBs.
3.29        The SCBs participated in previous IDA Credits as PCI..  However,
both BOC and PB were suspended, and remain suspended, from utilizing the
credit component of SMI IV (IDA Credit 2250-CS) as they failed to maintain
capital adequacy requirements for eligibility as PCI for that Credit. SCB. do
not meet the eligibility requirements of the PPDP and will not be PCIs for the
proposed project. IDA considers that, as a minimum, the following conditions
must be satisfied before a review could be undertaken to consider the
eligibility of the SCB! !or the proposed project: (i) steps noted in the
previous paragraph are completed; (11) the 8CBs are recapitalized to
internationally acciepted norms; and (III) independent reviews of financial
data, conducted un4er internationally accepted standards, show that the SCBs
have achieved prof_'tability targets and return on assets that are at parity
with the private commercial banks for two consecutive years, on a cumulative
basis under fair market conditions. In particular, the profit targets should
exclude any interest income from the recapitalization bonds utilized to
augment the capital base of the SCBs from zero to 8 percent. Legislation,
enabling the SCB! to function as autonomous coamercial organizations and
levelling the playing field betwieen state-owned and private commercial banks
has been submitted to the Cabinet for approval. It is expected that the
legislation will be presented to the Parliament for approval by May 1993 and



- 20 -
implemented by August 1993. GOSL has also confirmed its intention to enter
into binding agreements with the SCBs covering their profit targets, interim
measures needed to control administrative costs, credit discipline and
restrictions on asset growth. A draft of the main terms of the agreement is
included in Annex 7.
3.30        Debt Recovery Leeislation.  The development of Sri Lanka's
financial Institutions is hampered by debt recovery problems. In order to
ensure stability of the financial system and safeguard the public deposits, a
sound debt recovery system is necessary.
3.31        While a series of wide ranging debt recovery laws were introduced
in 1990, the need for further strengthening of the legislation has been
recognized for some time. Since 1990, a committee chaired by the Chairman of
the NDB and the Presidential Commission on Finance and Banking have reviewed
this matter and submitted their reports to the MOP. In response, a committee
to examine the debt recovery law and procedure was appointed by the Cabinet
Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs. This committee, chaired by the Secretary,
Ministry of Justice, Mr. Herat, has submitted its recommendations to the
Cabinet Subcommittee on October 19, 1992. The Cabinet Subcommittee has
adopted the recommendations and final Cabinet approval followed by appropriate
legislation is expected by August 1993. As a result of these recommendations,
the GOSL will initially establish one special debt recovery court and one
commercial court. If necessary, another special debt recovery court may be
established later. The debt recovery courts will deal exclusively with cases
filed by financial institutions, where the disputed amount exceeds a specified
threshold. The commercial court will have jurisdiction relating to ordinary
transactions of merchants, traders, mercantile agencies and insurance,
intellectual property, etc. Although knowledgeable in local laws, the judges
for these courts need to have exposure to debt recovery procedures in more
developed economies and training for legal staff is needed to expedite court
procedures. Technical assistance funds from this Project will be provided for
physical infrastructure to support the special debt recovery court,
familiarization of debt recovery judges to procedures in more developed
financial markets and training of legal staff.
3.32        Accountina and Audit Standards and Enforcement* Pinancial
information has a significant role in the process of modernizing financial
instruments markets, with extensive linkages to other economic areas.
Published financial statements are an important output of the accounting
system, and the only one regularly available to external users. The quality
of those statements is reflected in their perceived and actual quality of
information, relevance, timeliness and reliability. Their quality has an
impact on resource mobilization, allocatiou and management. If financial
statements are not of a consistently high quality and are generally perceived
to be deficient, there are substantial actual and potential negative impacts:
corporate tax collection process becomes cumbersome and arbitrary,
privatization is made difficult, development of a capital market is hampered
and bank lending decisions become increasingly collateral oriented.
3.33        Problems with the quality and reliability of financial statements
exist in Sri Lanka, despite the fact that it has an active and relatively



- 21 -
competent accounting profession. This appears to be primarily due to a lack
of an adequate mechanism for the enforcement of eristing auditing and
accounting standards rather than serious shortcomings In the standard.
themselves.
3.34        The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) is the
primary professional accounting body and has the authority to set the
accounting and auditing standards for its members. The ICASL has adopts' all
of the lnternational accounting and audit standards and is working with the
MOP On proposals requiring all listed and large unlisted companies including
financial Institutions to prepare their financial statements in accordance
with these standards (currently only the listee companies need follow the
accounting standards as part of their listing requirements). There is also a
need to strengthen licensing requirements for auditors to prevent unqualified
accountants from becoming public accountants. In addition, the MOF, with
assistance from ICASL, is working to establish a separate body (an Accounting
Standards Board) to monitor and enforce compliance with accounting standards,
investigate cases of non-compliance and recommend appropriate actions. GOSL
confirmed its commitment to IDA tos
(a)   amend the legislation to require that financial statements
of listed and large unlisted companies, including financial
Institutions, be audited by a qualified chartered accountant
in accordance with standards issued by the ICASL by December
1993;
(b)   establish an Accounting Standards Board to enforce technical
standards on public accountants, provide sanctions for
noncompliance, and recruit senior technical staff to manage
and supervise the compliance program by December 1993; and
(c)   take other steps to strengthen the profession, including a
study of the feasibility of introducing compulsory
malpractice insurance for all practicing accountants. The
study will commence by October 31, 1993 and be completed by
March 31, 1994.
3.35        Bankina Supervision.  Th new competitive environment is expected
to increase the need for efficient bank supervision. Efficient supervision
depends largely upon accurate, reliable and rapid returns based on the
accounts of the financial institutions. These returns facilitate peer
comparisons that could serve as early warning signals. Besides peer
comparisons, analysis of various ratios such as liquidity, solvency, capital
adequacy, profitability as well as time-series comparisons of principal items
and percentage changes should also be conducted. These analyses and
comparisons would not only constitute the backbone of the off-site supervision
of the banking supervision function, but also provide for more focused on-site
inspections rather than the present two-year inspection cycle for each bank.
3.36        At present, three departments of CBSL are involved in the
supervision of the financil systems the Bank Supervision Department (BSD) is
responsible for the supervision of 23 commercial banks, 2 DFIs and the 16



- 22 -
RtDBo. the Eon-Bank Financial Institutions Supervision Department (NBFISD) is
responsible for supervising 27 finance companies; and the Banking Development
Department (BDD) is responsible for evaluating requests for licensing of new
banks and bank branches. Banking supervision In Sri Lanka has several
weaknesses: (a) coverage of supervision; (b) coordination between the three
departments; (c) staffings and (d) inadequate rules and regulations:
(a)    Coverage of Supervisions The Foreign Currency BaLking Units
(PCBUs) were allowed by regulation in 1979 to attract
foreign currency investments from nonresident Sri Lankans.
These investments have grown rapidly and now constitute
more than 25 percent of the total assets of the domestic
banks. Although the FCBUs report to the BSD in the same
format as the domestic banking unite (DBUs), they are not
subject to similar prudential regulations or on-site
supervision. The two merchant banks have been brought
under the purview of the BSD supervision and have been
reporting since January 1992. The prudential regulations
applicable to these two banks have not yet been formulated.
The CBSL needs to begin on-site inspections and formulate
adequate prudential regulations for both the FCBUs and the
merchant banks.
(b)    Coordination Between the Three Departmentes Experienced and
knowledgeable supervisors are a valuable and scarce
commodity at CBSL. The three departments need to maximize
the use of these resources by facilitating exchange within
departments, developing common reporting formats wherever
possible, etc. Coordination between the three departments
may also be strengthened by a clear organizational
structure and reporting relationships. It is important
that these departments report to the same Executive
Director. A review of the current organizational
structure, and other issues related to institutional
strengthening need to be identified and resolved.
(c)    Staffing:  The departments lack sufficiently qualified
staff. Emphasizing off-site supervision will help the CBSL
keep track of the financial system in a way that recognizes
its current instttutional weaknesses. In this respect
computers can assist enormously by performing repetitive
tasks, calculating key ratios, checking adherence,
performing peer-group comparisons, etc. This would free
analysts to perform the actual analysis, and identify key
banks where on-site supervision may be required urgently. A
detailed analysis of the departments' automation
requirements and a training program for staff needs to be
developed and implemented urgently.
(d)    Rules and Regulations: While some of the prudential
guidelines have been made effective (suspension of interest
on non-performing assets, provisioning), others amwit



- 23 -
drafting. Urgent attention should be given to enforcing
the new capital adequacy guidelines (in line with the BIS
requirements), open foreign exchange positions and
liquidity requiremonts. In additiou, guidelines for the
treatment of overdrafts for the purpose of classification
and provisioning need to be determined and enforced.
3.37      The Banking Supervision Department has, in consultation with CBSL,
initiated the process of institutional strengthening by examining its manpower
requirements. IDA has been requested, under the aegis of this project, to
provide technical assistance to CBSL to rationalize the supervision function
and enhance the quality and efficiency of the supervision. The GOSL
reconfirmed its commitment to initiate this work within three months of the
Project effectiveness, with a view to completion of the first phase within six
months. The overall program of strengthening the CBSL supervision function is
expected to take two years. In addition, a separate study to help develop the
regulatory framework for the insurance industry will be undertaken at the same
time.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
4.01      The proposed project seeks to:
(a)     improve the efficiency of financial intermediation in Sri
Lanka by supporting policy and regulatory reforms in the
financial sector;
(b)     assist in domestic resource mobilization for long-term
investment by stimulating the development of local bond
markets;                   4
(c)    enable the private sector to respond to the changing
economic environment by providing investment finance; and
(d)    help deepen the financial system and strengthen the key
players including the contractual savings institutions, the
CBSL, the HOP, the GOSL, the ICASL and the PCIs.
S. Pro@iet Description
4.02      To achieve these objectives, the Proj_ct comprises:
(a)     Improvements in Policy Framework: As noted above, the
Project will support wide ranging reform of the policy and
regulatory environment in the financial sector, especially
in areas affecting mobilization of domestic resources for
investments through commercial channels. Significant
elements being supported through this project includes
(i)    developing market oriented procedures for issuing
debt instruments and removing the requirements for



- 24 -
publicly controlled savings institutione to invest
virtually all their funds in public socurities;
(i1)   extending the maturity structure of government
securities and ending the Issuance of managed rate
Rupee Securities;
(III) establishiug a task force and devising an action
plan to automate the post-trade handling of all
Treasury paper transactions;
(iv)   modernizing the system for generating tax data for
use by Inland Revenue and phasing out the current
system of withholding taxes on debt instruments;
(v)    development of investment guidelines for the EPF,
ETF, ICSL and USI that allow for gradual
diversification of their investment portfolios and
permitting these institutions to invest in non-
government securities consistent vith their roles.
The targets for the funds to be invested aecording
to the new investment guidelines and in non-
government securities are 5 percent of monthly
inflow in 1993, increasing to over 10 percent by
June 1995 for UP! and ITF. Target for NSB, which
has already the process of diversifying is 10
percent of assets by the end of 1993. Thereafter,
the proportions are to be incteased in consultations
with IDA and in light of the experience gained from
the initial phase, with a view to complete
investment autonomy for these institutions within
five years of Project effectiveness. This means the
proportion of investment funds to be invested in
government securities will not be any higher than
what is consistent with the institution's
independent inves%ment objectives;
(vi)   the development of a regulatory framework for the
insurance Industry and restructuring and
privatization of the state-owned insurance
corporations;
(vii) requiring that all listed companies and larger
unlisted companies be audited by qualified Chartered
Accountants in accordance with ICASL adopted
standards, setting up of an Accounting Standards
Board and studying the feasibility of introducing
malpractice insurance for practicing accountantsg
(viii) commercializing the SCBs including setting and
enforcing of profitability targets for their boards,
modifying legislation governing the operation of
SCBs to remove privileges and constraints, and
ensuring accounting and disclosure of the results of
SCBs operations In accordance with internationally
accepted standards;
(ix)   implementation of legislation covering
recommendations of the Herat Committee and setting
up of additional debt recovery courts; and



- 25 -
(a)    strengthening Dank Supervision function In the CBSL.
The GOSL provided IDA with a letter of aectoral policy
during negotiations (Annex 2), outlining the actions to be
taken under this Project. In addition, IDA agreed with the
GOSL on specific actions on the major financial sector
Issues described In Chapter III above. Progress in
implemeating thee. reforms will be monitored throughout the
commitment and disbursement period of the loan. Several of
these action. are already underway. Moreover, IDA provided
technical asietance and bilateral support will also aslst
In fulfilling thee. conditions in a timely manner.  IDA
will conduct a formal Mid-Term Review of the Project to
ensure that these reform. are proceeding satisfactorily.
Unsatisfactory progress In implementing the overall reform
program being supported through thie project will result in
suspension of further cammitment of fund. under the
Project.
(b)     Invletment Credit Component (US$57.5 million equivalent):
The credit component will make fund. available to PCI. to
provide term loan. to private enterprisea, without
limitation to their size or subsector. Funds will be on-
lent by the GOSL directly to the PCI., on a variable basis,
at the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (adjusted for CBSL
reserve requirement.) to be reset once every three or six
months. The on-lending rate will be revieved periodically
and changed to the Troasury bill rate or another
appropriate index when the secondary market develops. PCIs
will be free to determine the final variable rate to sub-
borrovers  In addition, the project will increase the
extent to which PCIs are to mobilize domestic resources by
financing only 60 percent of the loan amount. Although the
direct foreign exchange risk will be carried by the GOSL,
the variable and market determined final lendint rate will
transfer the risk to the sub-borrowers. The PYOP
Administrative Unit in DDB will administer the component on
behalf of the government on a fee basis. Each PCI will
have a specified free-limit. Subloans in excess of the
free limit will require IDA's clearance. IDA participation
In a specific subloan will be limited to US$2.0 million.
The project will support creation of a Pollution Control
and Abatement Fund to provide Investment funds to existing
industries to help them comply with enwironmental
standards. The subloans vill be provided at zero real
interest rates (inflation was 11 percent at the end of
December 1992). The nominal Interest Income will be
earmarked for monitoring compliance with environmental
standards. The rate of interest will be determined at the
time of the first disbursement for the oubloan and will be
based on the latest published rate of Inflation. Funding



- 26 -
for the PCAP is being provided by the Government of The
Netherlands on a grant basis.
(c)    Tecbnical Asositance Component (US$2.5 million equivalent)s
This component will provide assistance for the preparation
and implementation of various policy reforms, including:
(i) establishing a viable domestic bond market, including
developing the legal and regulatory framework, providing
assistance to contractual savings institutions in
developing portfolio manaegment capacity, creating the
trading and settlement infrastructure end training for all
private and government participants; (it) preparing the
state-owned commercial banks for restructuring and
recapitalization; (iii) implementing the new accounting and
auditing standards, debt recovery legislation and
strengthening the banking supervision function within the
CBSL; (iv) continuing to upgrade the capabilities of the
PCIs (expected to be disbursed within two years of project
effectiveness), including risk management; and (v)
supporting implementation of environmental standards by the
entrepreneurs, PCIs and regulatory agencies. The PPDP
Administrative Unit in NDB will administer this component
on behalf of the GOSL.
V. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
5.01      Amount and Maturity.  The proposed Credit of SDR 43.2 million
(US$60 million equivalent), including the credit and technical assistance
components, will be made to the GOSL on standard IDA terms, with 40 years
maturity and a grace period of ten years. The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed in five years. The GOSL will on-lend the proceeds of the credit
component (US$57.5 million equivalent) to PCIs for a period not exceeding
fifteen years, including a maximum of five-years grace period. The proceeds
of the TA component (US$2.5 million equivalent) will be transferred as a grant
to the respective institutions receiving the assistance.
5.02      Interest Rate.  The proceeds of the credit component will be on-
lent by the GMSL to PCIs at the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR) on a
variable rate basis. The AWDR is the weighted average cost on all interest-
bearing term funds including savings accounts (not including NSB accounts),
fixed deposits and certificates of deposit, adjusted for foregone interest on
CBSL reserve requirements* A rolling six-month AWDR, currently being computed
by CBSL, will be published on a weekly basis. The AWDR is proposed as the
interest rate reference point pending further development of the Sri aenkan
Treasury bill market. The interest rate basis is subject to review by IDA and
may be changed to the appropriate Treasury bill rate or snother index after
the Treasury bill market has developed. This change is expected to occur at
the Mid-Term Review of the project. The PCIs will have full autonomy to price
the loans to enterprises according to perceived risk, maturity and to cover
their intermediation costs. AA interest rates will be market oriented and



- 27 -
variable, the rates charged to end users will indirectly reflect the foreign
exchange risk. The Government vill beer the direct foreign exchange risk of
the credit.
5.03      Suborolect Finanlina Criteria.  A miaimum of 30 percent of
subproject costs vill be provided by the sponsor in the form of equity, to
encourage sound capital structurest the actual equity contribution will be
determined by the PCI on a case-by^case basis. Experience under the ongoing
SNI projects indicates that sponsors typically provide about 30 percent of
total project costs. To encourage the PCIs to mobilize funds domestically,
the Credit will finance no more than 60 percent of the total PCI loan amount.
IDA's financing of any one subprojecr will be limited to a maximm of US$2.0
million equivalent.
5.04      Eligible subprojects will finace investment in new or existing
private firnm for modernization, rehabilitation, restructuring or expansion.
All subprojects will need to be financially and economically viable as
assessed by the PCIs and must meet the environmental regulations established
by the CEA. No limitations will be set on the size of individual enterprises
or their subsectors, other than a prohibition against using credit proceeds to
lend to other financial institutions. All subprojects will need to meot the
GOSLIIDA environmental standards (see para. 5.25) and will require an
environmental protection license (EPL). Working capital financing viil be
allowed only as part of a fixed investment subloan and for permanent working
capital needs, since seasonal vorking capital financing is available from
othor sources.
5.05      Sublo.n Sige. Free Limits and IDA Review, Based on their
demonstrated capacity under the previous projects to select suitable project
sponsors and appraise and supervise investment projects, the PCIs will be
given a free limit appropriate to their capabilities and operations. The free
14m4ts will be reviewed by IDA on an annual basis and modified as appropriate
in light of the PCIs performance. At the time of Project effectiveness, free
limits for the PCIs are expected to be in the range of US$100,000 to
US$300,000. Subloans in excess of these free limits will be evaluated by IDA.
Subloans (both above and below the free limits) will also be reviewed by IDA
on an ex-poste basis during supervision missions.
5.06      Terms for On-lending by the GOSL to the PCIes.  Credit funds vill be
on-lent by the GOSL to the PCIs on a variable rate basis, adjustable every
three or six months, at the AWDR. The reset period will be Selected by the
PCI, but once selected, it cannot be changed for a period of one year and vill
apply to all subloans granted the PCI in that year. Based on the mix of
interest-bearing term deposits held by the domestic comercial banks as of
December 31, 1992, the effective AWDR vas about 13.9 percent compared vith
inflation of about 11.4 percent. The GOSL will on-lend to the PCIs in Rupees.
Subloans will be financed on a first-come, first-served basis. The lending
rates and mechanism will be reviewed at least once annually with IDA to ensure
that they remain a reliable market proxy. It is expected that with the
development of the capital market, this rate will be changed to an appropriate
Treasury securities rates at the Mid-Term Review of the project. The PCIs
will be free to charge sub-borrowers a market-determined interest rate on



- 26 -
subloans financed under the project. The PCIs will be expected to make
subloans on a variable b"ais, linked to any index acceptable to the PCI ad
its borrower. Iowsver, the PCI will need to satisfy IDA aout the mechanism
that it ha adopted to amnitor and control the interest rate risk that It
assumes.  Subloas one  whch no disbutemento have been made for twelvo months
will be reviewed and, unless a case could be made to the contrary, canceled to
facilitate project completion and promote a full utilisation of project fund.
5.07      Terms of Repayment by the PCIe to the GOSL. The PCIa will repay
the GOWL on a composite amortization schedule (aggregated from the individual
subloans) with a maxtimm of 15 years, Including a maximum of five-year grace
period. The maturity of itdividual subloans will be deterained by the PCIas,
based on the merits of the subproject, but will not exceed ten years,
including a maxtium two year grace period. PCIs will report their project
accounts regularly to the PIDP Administrative Unit. Overall, the commitment
period Is expected to be about three year.
S. Administ_atIon of the Credit
5.08      AmInistratIve Unit and itM Structure. Under the previous SKI
operatiosm, NDB had been the choice a. Apex Agency. The design of the
proposed project is such that most function., normally performed by the Apex
Agency, have been eliminated, except for the project administration
responsibilitie. (accounting, auditing, reporting, coordination of PCI
development effort, marketing, etc.).   There is no float to be managed by an
Apex Agency and all subproject above the free-l4m4t, will be reviewed by IDA.
In order to accommodate the requirements of the proposed projects In the most
efficient uanner, and to eliminate the potential for any conflict of interest,
the GOSL ha agreed that there will be no Apex Agency for the project and only
administrative functions will be performed by an Administrative Unit. After
considering the Institutions that may be able to undertake the administrative
functions, Including the two DPI., the GOSL decided that 3DB should perform
these duties, on a foe bssis. If in the future there is any evidence of UDI's
inability to discharge its functions In a manner satisfactory to IDA, anotber
institution will be selected mutually by the GOSL and IDA to undertake this
work.
5.09      lunctlons.  The Administrative Unit will monitor operations under
the credit and carry out the administrative and reporting requirements of the
Project. bor loans In excess of the Individual free limits, PCIs will send
their applications directly to IDA for subloan review. In addition, from time
to time the Unit will assist IDA in performing ex-post. reviews and 4ample
analyses of subloans sanctioned below the individual free limits to ensure
that appropriate appraisal standards are being maintained on these smaller
subprojects. The Unit will also administer the technical assistance component
funds and the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAP). To cover the costs
of these activities EDB will be reimbursed by the GOSL throuSh an annual fe
not exceeding one percent of the credit amount disbursed and outstanding, with
the rate subject to annual review and adjustment. The signirg of the
subsidiary administration agreement between the Administrative Unit and the
GOSL, discussed during negotiations, and acceptable to IDA, will be a
condition of effectiveness. The Unit will operate a Special Account In the



- 29 -
CISL, from which reimbursoement requests will be paid. The account wili be
audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to I11.
S.10       Wg.stinf Arraneaments. The Administrative Unit, currently
operating for the SKI projects In UDs, is organized Into six main sections.
The Analysis and Review Section reviews PCIs' appraisals and refinanco
applications. The Reporting and Liaison Section prepares periodic reports an
the credit institutions' lending, supervision and collection performance. The
Finance and Disbursement Section disburses refinance, collects repayments,
administers project funds for the techiacal service components and maintains
accounts. Three other sections are responsible for monitoring and
supervision, training and subsector analysis. Although in the past public
ownership had strained 1DBo. ability to recruit and retain good staff, NDB hs
administered the ongoing projects competently and professionally, and Its
recent privatization will allow for sany further improvements needed. INDB has
emphasized the development of procedures, review of reimbursement applications
and upgrading PCIs' appraisal standards through training. Although not
directly needed for this project, it is worth noting that NDB has also
streamlined and improved the subloan review process from the PCIs. PCIs
ordinarily receive prompt responses to thelr reimbursement applications. The
policies and procedures for the Administrative Unit (Annex 5) have been
reviewed with IDA staff and are satisfactory. Any future modifications of the
policies and procedures, or the selection of the Institution to perform the
administrative functions, will require prior COSL and IDA approval.
C. Particinatin- Credit Institutions
5.11      Potential PCIs.  The experience with the first four SMI projects
has demonstrated PCI capacity for selecting, appraising and supervising SKI
projects. Increasingly, these institutions have begun to extend term loans to
larger euterprises and have demonstrated their ability to manage this sector
effectively. Subject to fulfilling the conditions of participation as agreed
with IDA, some of the PCIs which have participated in previous Credits --
CBOCs DFCC, 1DB, Hatton, Sampath and Seylan, are expected to be the main
beneficiaries of the proposed project. Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and People's Bank
(PB), which had participated previously in similar credits do not mast the
eligibility criteria for this project due to public ownership and their
financial/management weaknesses resulting from political interference. In
addition to a comprehesive restructuring of their operations, satisfactory to
IDA, the SCBs must be able to demonstrate profitability equal to that of
private comercial banks in Sri Lanka for a period of two years before IDA
could consider a review of their eligibility for participation in the Project.
Any other private commercial bank (local or foreign-owned) incorporated in Sri
Lanka and accredited by the CBSL which meets the eligibility conditions could
also apply to participate.
5.12      Ulisibilitv Criteria for the PCIs. Eligibility criteria for PCI's
participation in the proposed Project will take into account the overall
financial viability of the PCI and strength of its operating structures,
rather than confine itself to the evaluation of its ability to deal with term
lending. Each PCI will sign a Participation Agreement with the COSL
(satisfactory to IDA), including an undertaking that it will at all times



- 30 -
comply with the eligibility criteria and maintain the minimum ratios as shown
in Annex 4.
5.13      A subsequent review of a PCI'. eligibility to continue to
participate will be triggered if it fails to achieve any of these criteria. If
the failure is on account of collection ratios, the review will concentrate on
establishing whether the PCI meets the minimau specified profitability ratios
after fully providing for the troubled loans which are causing the collection
ratios to fall below the minimum required. Unless a case could be made for a
waiver supported by calculations of alternative break-even collection levels
based on a PCI's spreads, terms of its subloans, administrative costs and the
opportunity cost of the PCI's own funds, the PCI will be suspended until such
time as it demonstrates, on the basis of data verified by an externally
audited financial statement prepared in accordance with standards acceptable,
to IDA, that it can maintain minimum collection levels and do so in a
sustainable manner. During the period of suspension, collection performance
and portfolio infection status will continue to be reviewed by IDA.
5.14      Rvaluation of the PCIs.  As of December 1992 all of the proposed
PCIs were in compliance with CBSL guidelines and with the condition. of
participation under the ongoing SKI projects. However, under the more
comprehensive and stricter eligibility criteria used for this Project, there
were two banks (Seylan and Sampath) that were unable to meet the capital
adequacy requirements based on their December 1991 financial statements and
one bank (Hatton) did not meet the minimum collection requirements. The rest
met all the criteria. Data for the interim 1992 results indicate that both
Seylan and Sampath are expected to meet the capital adequacy requirements by
end-December 1992. Hatton's collection ratio problem may however take a
little longer to correct. PCIs that participated in the ongoing SW projects
will also need to continue to meet the participation criteria for those
projects in order to remain eligible to participate in the proposed Project.
As a condition of effectiveness of the Project, at least two PCIs should have
established their eligibility to participate in the project by meeting the
eligibility criteria for the PCIs and signing participation agreements with
the GOSL. Of all the domestic commercial banks and DPI'., the two state owned
commercial banks (BOC and PB) did not meet the pre-appraisal criteria and
were, therefore, not included for detailed evaluation. The role and
performance of the two DPIs were discussed in Chapter III. Evaluation of the
remiaining four private domestic commercial banks is summarized below and
detailed in Annex 6.
5.15      Commercial Bank of Ceylon.  CBOC was established in 1969 as a
public company with 40 percent equity participation by Standard Chartered
Holdings UK Limited which still retains a representation on the board. CBOC
is generally well regarded in banking circles and is considered to have good
quality assets in its portfolio. In 1991 it bad Rs 7.4 billion in its loans
plus bills portfolio, which amounted to 77 percent of its total assets.
Dictated by prudence it has built loan loss reserves which now stand at 3.8
percent of its loan book. CBOC maintains a good mix between term lending and
short term exposures. Its term loans were 54 percent of its loan portfolio
and short term bills 18 percent. Its position as the biggest lender amongst
private domestic commercial banks was at the cost of a high advances to



- 31 -
deposits ratio wvlich in 1991 stood at 90 percent while its peers were
maintaining significantly lower advances to deposits ratios mostly in the
range of 65 percent to 75 percent. Its share capital was doubled in 1989 from
Rs 50 million to Rs 100 million which improved its capital adequacy ratios.
5.16      Like some other private domestic commercial banks, CBOC also
suffers from the quality of its manpower resources. It urgently needs to
further streamline its systems and procedures and concentrate on training its
staff. CBOC's net intermediation margin of 6.4 percent was on the lower side
amongst private domestic commercial banks, but despite lower margins it had
the best before and after tax profits of all private domestic commercial
banks. Return on paid up capital was 143 percent and on shareholders funds it
was 20 percent.
5.17      During the year, CBOC opened two new branches bringing the total
branch network to 21. Its deposits grew by 33 percent from 5.2 billion to 6.9
billion over the year giving 33 percent growth. Advances increased by 24
percent to 7.3 billion and total assets increased by 30 percent to 9.6
billion. The 30 percent increase in CBOC's asset base was primarily deposit-
led.
5.18      Hatton National Bank.  Hatton was created in 1970.  In 1974 it
acquired the business of Mercantile Bank and in 1989 that of Emirates Bank and
by 1991 had become Sri Lanka's largest private domestic commercial bank in
terms of both total assets and customer deposits. It is controlled by two
business (trading) houses which own 60 percent of its share capital, remaining
shares are held by the public. Although Hatton is not the largest bank in
terms of number of branches, it ranks largest in terms of its staff strength.
These higher staff numbers indicate a low degree of automation and the need
for some streamlining of the management structure. This is also evidenced by
Hatton's low fixed assets per employee and low profits per employee.
5.19      Hatton has the lowest issued share capital of all private domestic
commercial banks. In 1991, its issued share capital was only 0.6 percent of
its assets, but as the oldest of the private domestic commercial banks with
large retained earnings, its capital adequacy ratios are reasonable. Hatton
has developed its expertise in providing short-term trade and export finance
and positioned itself such that it captures good export business from local
traders and blue chip companies. Its short-term exposure was high at 26
percent of its loar portfolio and its term loan portfolio, which was at its 3
year low, is small at 39 percent. Although this ratio did improve in 1992, it
reflects management's focus on trade finance.
5.20      Hatton's loans plus bills portfolio was an acceptable 69 percent of
total assets but it was disconcerting to see 9.5 percent of its loans
categorized as non-performing. Loan loss reserves were 3.1 percent of its
loan portfolio: although about the average for private domestic commercial
banks, is considered low due to high portfolio infection rate and low
collection ratios. Hatton has been cautiously developing its leasing
business. In 1991 it had the largest exposure of all private domestic
commercial banks (0.7 percent of its total loans). Hatton is the largest
mobilizer of deposits amongst private domestic commercial banks and it manages



- 32 -
to do so at the lowest cost (cost of deposits was 7.9 percent). It has
reasonable capital adequacy ratios and acceptable profitability ratios but
needs to concentrate on its debt recovery programs and on strengthening its
credit team, if it is to develop its term lending portfolio.
5.21      Samnath Bank Limited.  Sampath Bank was established in 1987.  FY91
was its fourth year in business and it brought major changes for the bank.
During 1991 Sampath's founder, chairman and four other directors resigned from
the board and problems were reported in its loan book. A new chairman was
brought in after intervention by the Central Bank and a time of austerity set
in. The new board decided to consolidate the bank's position. No new
branches were opened during the year and no additions in staff were made.
Tough cost reduction and control measures were adopted, including the cutting
back of the bank's rather ambitious program of automation and AIMs. The tough
new policies paid off and bank profits before tax went up from Rs 17 million
to Rs 59 million. Sampath's low return on assets is attributable mainly to
high operating costs and not to low margins. Its net intermediation margin
wat ;he second highest at 8.7 percent. Its operating costs of 6.1 percent of
assets were highest of the four private domestic commercial banks while other
private domestic commercial banks costs were in the range of 3.1 percent to
3.9 percent. Loan loss reserves were increased by a sizeable amount to reach
a level of 3.3 percent of the loan portfolio up from 2.2 percent the year
before. Its resolve to sort out its problems with the loan book has resulted
in the strengthening of its credit department and improvements in its
collection ratios. In 1991 collection ratio for principal stood at 93 percent
and for principal plus interest at 89 percent. Sampath's high portfolio
infection rate of 18.8 percent needs attention.
5.22      Sampath's priorities now lie with its problem loans, installing an
aggressive loan recovery team and paying attention to monitoring and control
systems. It also has to carefully evaluate the policy for branch expansion,
because during its period of consolidation other banks have entered most of
the geographical areas which had potential and were under-banked. It has
adopted a course of tight cost control and technology to gain market share and
launch the more profitable products and services. Sampath had the highest
term lending portfolio of the four private domestic commercial banks with term
loans standing at 63 percent of its total loans. Sampath's leading market
role in term lending puts it at an advantageous position to utilize the PPDP
facility.
5.23      Sevlan Bank Limited.  In 1991, the fifth year of its establishment,
Seylan Bank had become the largest private domestic bank in terms of branch
network, with 46 branches. Towards the end of 1991 Seylan entered into an
agreement with the Central Bank to take over ex-BCCI operations in the
country. The financial results of the acquisition were not incorporated in
the books until 1992. The June 1992 consolidated results show a surge in
Seylan's business, assets and depouits. The terms of the agreement enabled
Seylan to acquire assets at a discount amounting to over Rs 1.1 billion. Its
deposit base more than doubled to reach Rs 3.5 billion, total assets increased
by 71 percent and loans portfolio by 52 percent. These ratios partly reflect
its fresh loan portfolio and partly the fact that a substantial part of its
portfolio is of short-term nature which does not entail the usual risks of



- 33 -
project financing. Seylan's loan loss reserves are low at 1.1 percent of its
loan portfolio. Although there to no evidence of problems with its loan book,
mangement agroes that an incroee In loan loss reserves is urgently needed.
5.24      In terms of profitability, Seylan bad the highest net
intermediation margin of all private domestic commercial banks (9.1 percent)
and lowest operating costs (3.1 percent of a"sets) making it the most tightly
run privat, domestic comercial bank. Seylan intends to beeome the market
leadr in providing new fimnanial products and services.  It has already
Introduced long opening hours as well as weekend opening for selected
branches, forcing some of the other banks to follow. The bank has an
ggressive and forward loolkng marketing and senior management team, but it
suffers noticeably from the lack of automation, systems and good quality
support staff. Seylan has the potential to increase its market role, profile
and profitability In all of its markets if It can resolve issues relating to
Its low capital base and urgent need to Improve Its manpower resources,
systems and procedures.
Key Fianclal and Ooerational Data for Potential PCIs
Year Inded December 1991
me 4           cm   CBOC SNo         snus
No. of treaches                               2        1     21    41        13      46
go. of Ebployeee                            199      183   19432  1,874     616    794
Total Assets (Rs mLilon)                  5,013    6,987   9,575  9,936    4,428   5,479
Shareholders Funds (Rs m1illon)             932    1,888    715   558       436    283
Net Profit After Tas (Res Aillion)          266    2I0       143   137       40      55
Advances as I of Deposits                   N.A      l.A   90.5   75.5    76.2   65.2
Interest Cost of Deposits                   N.A     l.A     9.3   7.9       8.4    7.9
Profit After TezllhsrehoLdera lands        28.6    13.2   20.0  24.6        9.    19.6
Capital/Rsk Adjusted Asseto (2)            20.6    33.3   11.2   10.1      7.      6.5'
Cash Collectio tkatoo (2)
Pricipal Only                            83.1    83.9   82.2  58.17    93.0   93.3
Principal and Intret                     80.9    80.5   80.4  76.0    89.5   93.8
Portfolio Infection Ratlo (2)              17.1    11.1   10.7   9.5    18.8    0.9
Debtl/quity Batlo                           3.8      2.5    1.6   1.2       0.1    0.6
Earnings per Slur (Ms)                      179      84      14    22         1       3
Total Asets per Dmployee (Re '000)       25,192   38,181   6,686  5,302    7,188   6,901
After Tax Profit per hployee (Rs '000)    1,338    1,366     100    73       66      70
Personne Costs per Employee (Re '000)       189      220    113    97       109     so
4/ DFCC data is for year ended 3131/92.
ji Sampath Bank's capital adequacy ratio for June 1992 was 10.72.
JI Seylan Bank's capital adequacy ratio for June 1992, after consolidating
BCCI assets and liabilities was 19.92.
ZI Hatton's cash collection ratios for June 1992 were, for principal only
57.42 and for principal and interest 75.9Z.



- 34 -
D. nviroomental Considerations
5.25      Environmental FactorA and Comoliance Reagirements. As noted in
Annex 9, Sri Lanks has enjoyed a long history of attention to the
environmental lmpact of industrial development. IDA hao had satisfactory
experience with the GQSL and the CEA In carrying out previous Industrial
projectes, including, most recently, SMI-IV. The project has an overall
environmental rating of Bi, although the environmental Impact may vary from
subproject to subproject.  To minimize the risk of adverse enviromental
effects, all subprojects will be required to conform with the general
environmental guidelines issued by the GOSL in October 1992 and monitored by
the CRA. PCIs will coordinate closely with the Administrative Unit and CIA
throughout project implementation. Under the proposed Project, the CIA,
assisted by the Administrative Unit, will be responsible for: (a) maintaining
the environmental review process established under SKI-IV, which include.
assistance to PCIs to identify industries which require EPLe, specifying Terms
of References for ZIA of individual industries; (b) developing the technical
capacity to help industries incorporate waste treatment and waste minimizing
measures in their process design; (c) identifying financial requirements for
industrial waste abatement; and (d) supporting the development and
implementation of CEA guidelines and standards for selected industrial
subsectorse To mini-ize delays in the project approval process, the PCIs will
be delegated "environmental clearance" authority of projects that are deemed
to have no adverse environmental impact, or for projects with a limited
environmental impact after the sponsor ha. agreed to appropriate adjustments
of the production process to meet emission standards or introduce appropriate
prevention/mitigation options. All projects vith potentially adverse and
significant environmental impacts will require the CEA's positive clearance
which will be given within two months of submission to the CIA. In cases
which require CEA clearance, sponsors could access the PCAP to engage
specialized technical assistance to reformulate the project proposal to
include those measures necessary to meet the CEA's environmental guidelines.
5.26      Administration of the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund. The
Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAF), totaling US$5.0 million
equivalent, will be financed by the Government of The Netherlands (GON) to
assist individual enterprises in making the r operations less harmful to the
environment while preserving economic efficiency (Annex 9 gives a description
of the PCAP's operations). The Administrative Unit in NDB will administer the
PCAF and make subloans and technical assistance available to qualified PCIs.
A total of US$3.75 million equivalent will be available for subloans under
this facility and US$1.25 million will be available for technical assistance.
In addition, any interest income earned by the PCAF can also be used to fund
technical assistance activities.
B. Technical Assistance Comonent
5.27      The TA component, totaling US$2.5 million, will finance the
following activities:



- 35 -
a. Institutional and Policy Develoument (USS2.0 Million)
5.28      Domestic Resource Mobilization for TeOr Lendina.  The GOSL intends
to lengthen the maturity structure of its debt listruments. To complete this
process successfully, four tasks are necessarys (i) strengthening the system
of issuing the appropriate long term debt instruments, including the
development of a trading and settlement infrastructure; (ii).development and
implementation of a regulatory framework, covering both primary and secondary
markets; (iii) developing portfolio management capabilities of the contractual
savings institutions and permitting these institutions to invest their funds
in accordance with their own investment goals; and (iv) training for the staff
of HOF, CBSL, primary and secondary dealers, as vell as general public. Some
of the assistance needed is already provided under SMI-IV. In addition, USAID
will provide TA in its parallel operation for this purpose.
5.29      Piasncial Sector Reform and Restructuring of State-Owned Commercial
Banks. The restructuring of the SCB is important to the efficient operation
of the banking sector in Sri Lanka. While the government has been slow to
embrace privatization as a strategy for restructuring these institutions, a
number of tasks are being supported through this project that can help
restructure and comercialize these banks. Technical assistance funds from
this Project are proposed to assist. ins (i) strengthening credit management;
(ii) rationalization of the branch network; (iii) improving staff utllization
(iv) conducting an international comparison of salaries in the banking sector
and (v) provide training for the staff of the banks. This portion of the TA
is expected to be utilized within two years of Project effectivweness. In
addition, the CBSL needs help in strengthening its bank supervision function.
The GOSL and PCIs may also need ssistance in implementing the provisions of
the revised debt recovery legislation.
5.30      Accountin  and Auditing. The ICASL recently proposed measures to
Improve the enforcement of accounting and au#iting standards to the GOSL.
These measures have been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory. TA
will be required to assist with the implementation of these measures, as well
as for investigating practical steps for introducing malpractice insurance for
all practicing chartered accountants. USAID will provide TA in its parallel
operation for setting up an Accounting Standards Board end training for the
professionals. Funds from IDA will be used for the institutional
strengthening of the ICASL, assistane with introducing malpractice insurance
for the practicing accountants and providing technical expertise to Accounting
Standards Board.
b. Financial Intermediation (USSO.5 million)
5.31      Assistance to the PCI.. Under the ongoing SI projects, funds were
provided to PCIs to assist them in building their project finance capabilities
through staff training and systems development. This assistance will be
continued. Assistance is particularly required in the area of HIS development
and risk management and pricing. Since this project will introduce the use of
variable rates, training will include the development of mechanisms for
isolating, managing and pricing of Interest rate risk. This assistance will
is expected only for the first two years of Project implementation.



- 36 -
F. Ptocur oet
5.32      Procurement of goods, works and serviee dill be carried out In
accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement practices followed under the
past and ongoing intermediary operations (three IDPo and four SKIs) have been
satisfactory, and vill be continued in this project. The PCI. will be
required to maintsin details of the procurement methods used by sub-borrower.
and to monitor the utilization of subloan funds for procurement through
regular site supervision visit.; NDB staff and IDA field supervision miselons
vill continue to review implementation of those procedures. All procurements
exceeding US$1 million will be subject to international competitive bidding
procedures. The selection of consultants will follow the Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Contracts for goods under the TA
component are not expected to exceed US$200,000, and will consist of such
small Items as computers, overhead projectors, precision laboratory equipment,
and packaging technology. Therefore, they will be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Procurement of
civil vorks for the debt recovery courts under the TA component Is limited to
US$200,000 and vill also be carried out under local coetitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for goods costing less than
US$50,000 and not exceeding US$1 million in aggregate, may be procured through
local shopping.
5 33      The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
Invitation, proposal., evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost les than US$100,000 equivalent eah. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference
for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to US$100,000 equivalent or above.
G. Disbursemeg
5 34      As under the ongoing SMI projects, the closiug date for submitting
financing applications under the Project will be three years, with a projected
five-year disbursement period after Credit effectiveness. IDA will reimburse
the PCIs for 60 percent of eligible subloan expenditures. To facilitate
reimbursement of expenditures by the PCIs, the Administrative Unit will
reimburse the PCI on the basis of proform documentation with full
documentation to be submitted to the Unit sad IDA on final disbursement. If
the documentation is not provided by the PCI, or is deemed to be inaccurate,
the amount of unsubstantiated claims will be deducted from general
reimbursement claims   The Unit will retain PCI documentation for inspection
during IA's eupervision missions. In turn, IDA will disburse oan the bsis of
certified statements of expenditure submitted by the Administrative Unit for
expenditures incurred up to 120 days prior to the reimbursement application.
All statements of expenditure, together with supporting documentation, will be
audited annually by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka or another lndependent
auditor satisfactory to IDA.                                          1



- 37 -
5.35      Prior authorization by IDA for a11 goods and services under the
technical assistance components w.ll be required and IDA will disburses
(a) 100 percent of expenditures for foreign and local consultants and
tralning;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment imported directly
and 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment; and
(c) 80 percent of expenditures for other equipment procured locally.
Requests for IziA disbursement against contracts exceeding US$5,000 will be
fully documented, while disbursement. for contracts below that amount will be
made on a SOB. Withdrawal applications will be channeled through the
Administrative Unit. To facilitate disbursement of TA charges and payment
applications of less than US$250,000, GOSLIIDA will establish a Special
Account in US Dollars with an initial deposit of about US$2 million.
S. Pro1ect MonLtorim. Reuortina and Auditi -
5.36      The proposed Project will Include periodic monitoring of performance
against project objectives. Thio monitoring will be accomplished through: the
submission of quarterly reports by the Administrative Unit; the semiannual
review of the interest rate structure; and a detailed review of all aspects of
the Project'. implementation, and particularly compliance with policy
conditions. Supervision Plan for the Credit is included as Annex 14. A Mid-
Term Review of the Project will be carried out within two years of Credit
effectiveness or after 50 percent of the Credit proceeds have been comitted,
whichever occurs first. The Mid-Term Review will focus on the progress in
achieving Project objectives, suitability of an appropria- Treasury bill rate
as a basis for on-lending the proceeds of the credit component to the PCIs,
efficiency of the administrative arrangements and effective use of technical
assistance funds. The Administrative Unit will submit quarterly reports to
the MHO and IDA on lending activities as well as progress under the TA
components in a format acceptable to IDA. The reports will be based on
aggregation of the PCI.' quarterly reports which will cover project lending,
staffing, training, collection and arrears performance and portfolio data as
well as icluding estimates of the impact of lending activities on employment,
productivity and exports. TA reports will summarize progress in
implementation on aspecto outlined In agreed action programs, and steps to be
taken during the next quarter. In addition, the Administrative Unit will
submit a quarterly report on its own staffing and evaluation of
characteristics of the funded projects. Reports will have a form and content
satisfactory to IDA and will be submitted within 45 days of the end of each
quartere
5.37      Ac a condition of participation under the proposed Project, PCIs
will be required to meet and the msaintain their operating performance within
the criteria specified for eligibility of PCIs. PCIs must also submit audited
financial statemsnts to IDA within four months of the end of the fiscal year,
and continue to comply with CBSL guidelines (experience of compliance with



- 38 -
audit requirements in past IDA operations has been satisfactory). The GOSL
will take steps to ensure that the Auditor General or a designated private
auditing firm, will submit a report on the Project Accounts in a form
satisfactory to IDA, not later than four months after the close of each fiscal
year. The audit and opinion on the use of the Project Account will also cover
disbursements against Statements of Expenditure and the use of Special
Accounts. Project accounts of each implementing agency will be audited as
part of the audit of that agency, but no separate audit opinion need to be
sent to IDA in respect of each agency that has beeu supported through the use
of technical assistance funds from this Project. If the Auditor General
designates a private auditing firm to carry out the audit of the Project
Account, the firm will need to be satisfactory to IDA. Within six months of
Project completion, the COSL and the Administrative Unit shall prepare a draft
Project Completion Report conforming to IDA guidelines.
VI. PROJECT BENITS hED RISKS
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project will further support the GOSL's
efforts to carry out financial sector reforms. In particular, this project
will lay the groundwork for the development of new financial instruments,
including medium and long-term bonds and will encourage the existing financial
institutions to diversify their funding nources. It will also provide
assistance for restructuring the SCBs and thus support the government's
efforts to improve financial sector efficiency. The provision of term
finance to the private sector will en-.le the enterprises to take advantage of
the changing economic environment and retool their operations, improve
efficiency and expand their markets.
6.02      The TA component will provide much needed expertise to the GOSL,
CBSL and affiliated agencies in revising the debt market operations, improving
enforcement of auditing and disclosure standards and implementation of
environmental guidelines. Assistance to the PCIs will help ensure that funds
are used effectively and that the PCIs develop appropriate systems for
appraising projects in a more competitive environment. The Pollution Control
and Abatement Fund will encourage firms to undertake the in esttments necessary
to Improve the environmental standards of their operations.
6.03      Risks. The main risks to the Project's success are associated with
the overall climate for investment in Sri Lanka. If the ethnic disturbances
escalate significantly, commitments and disbursements could stall and the
government may be slow to adopt the envisaged policy reforms. Repayment rates
of the subloans will also be adversely affected by any deterioration in the
business climate. On the other hand, recent financial intermediation projects
in Sri Lanka have proceeded satisfactorily and the PCIs continue to forecast
strong demand for investment finance. The ability of PCIe to mobilize
domestic resources will depend on the pace of the adjustment program, a
decrease in the public sector's borrowing requirements and an end to the
government's preferential borrowing rates.



- 39 -
VII. ACGREHEUTS REACHED AND RECOMEN.DAT2IN
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOSL ons
(a) on-lending terms and conditions, subproject eligibility criteria and
funding arrangements for the credit component (para. 5.01 to S.07)J
(b) a draft letter of financial sector policy (para. 4.03 and Annex 2),
laying out its goals for improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of the financial sector, including specific monitorable actions
related tot
Mi)     strengthening the maturities of government securities and
encouraging the development of primary and secondary markets
in public and private bonds;
(ii)    maintaining an appropriate interest rate structure, keeping
inflation in check and reducing the government's financing
requirements;
(iii)   maiutaining an appropriate regulatory framework for the
banking system, improving banking supervision and
strengthening the enforcement of accounting, auditing and
disclosure standards;
(iv)    further reduction of GOSL's ownership in NDB to less than 20
percent (initial divestiture of 61 percent of IDB shares
done in March 1993);
(v)     revising the investment guidelines of the contractual
savings institutions;
(vi)    its commitment to the introduction of variable rate lending;
(vii)   measures to further strengthen debt recovery legislation;
(viii) procedures for rational asset management of the contractual
savings institutions (FPP, 8TP, NSB and ICSL); and
(ix)    interim measures designed to lend a greater commercial focus
to the operations of the SCBs.
(c) the use of the average weighted deposit rate (AWDR) of interest-
bearing term deposits of the Greater Colombo branches of the
domestic commercial banks as the initial on-lending reference rate
for the credit component and the adoption of a market-based
benchmark, such as the Treasury bill rate, after the market is
developed (pars. 5.02);
(d) conditions of PCI participation, including compliance with risk
asset classification and provisioning requirements for non-
performing loans, collection ratios, profitability, capital



- 40 -
adequacy, management capacity and audit and accounting requirements
(par&. 5.11 to 5.14);
(e) procedures for procurement, disbureement, subproject review,
periodic reporting and accounting and auditing for credit and
technical assistance components (para. 5.32 to 5.37)t
(f) torms of reference for the activities being supported through the
Project and funded through the technical assistance component (in
consultation with other cofinanclors), including:
(i)   strengthening the system of issuing the appropriate long
term debt instruments, including the development of a
trading and settlement infrastructure (para. 3.09 and 3.10);
(ii) development and implementation of a regulatory framework,
covering both primary and secondary markets (para. 3.10);
(1ii) building portfolio management capacity in the contractual
savings institutions (par&. 3.19);
(iv) training programs for the various agencies and Institutions
involved in the development of the bond market; for PCIs in
the pricing and management of variable rate loans and the
development of HIS; and for the CBSL in strengthening its
banking supervision function (para. 5.28, 5.31 and 3.36)g
(v) strengthening credit management, rationalixing the branch
network, improving staff utilization and conducting an
international comparison of salaries in the banking sector
in conjunction with the messures taken to restructure the
SCBs (pars. 3'.29 and 5.29);
(vi) implementing the provisions of the revised debt recovery
legislation (para. 3.31);
(vii) creation of an Accounting Standards Board, extending the
requirement to comply with accounting standards and appoint
qualified Chartered Accountants as auditors for larger non-
listed companies and studying the feasibility of introducing
of malpractice insurace for practicing accountants
(para. 3.34); and
(g)   the responsibilities and obligations of the Administrative Unit,
including compensation for Its operations under this Project, its
reporting requirements vis-a-vis IDA and the GCOSL and the
mecebnism for shifting the Administrative Unit from the MDB, if
needed (para. 5.08 to 5.10, 5.36 and 5.37);
(h)   the form and content of the participation agreements between the
GOSL and the PCIs and the agreement between MDB and the Government
regarding its role as Administrative Unit (para. 5.09 and 5.12).



41 -
7.02     The followlog conditions should be mt prior to credit
effectivenessJ
(a) esgniag of an adminletratilo agresemet, satisfeatory to IDA, between
GOSL and 1DB (par&. 5.08 and 5.09)t and
(b) si$ning of participation agreements and demonotration of compliance
vith conditions of participation, satisfactory to IDA, between GMSL
and at loet two *ligible PCIs (pars. 5.11 and 5.12).
7.03     With the above agreements, the proposed Project constitutes a
suitable bs"io for a Development Credit of ODM 43.2 million (US$60 mllion
equivalent) On standard IDA ters vith a maturity of 40 years to the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 42 -
U 1
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMNRT PROJECT (PFDP)
DISBURSENENT SCNEDUIZ
FISCAL YEAR                                   PROFILE
US$ MILLION    US$ MILLION    PERCENT
SEMI-ANAL    CMULATIVE  ,
FY94           December 31    2.4             2.4             4
.___ _   June 30     4.2            6.6             11
FY95           December 31    6.6             13.2           22
______ ______ June 30          7.2            20.4            34
FY96           December 31    10.2            30.6           51
.________   June 30      10.8           41.4            69
FY97           December 31  . 6.6             48.0           80
.__ _    June 30    6.6             54.6           91
FY98           December 31    3.0             57.6           96
June 30        2.4             60.0           100



- 43 -
ARME 2
Pge 1 of 6
March 5, 1993
PRATE      NC  DELOPT PROJECT (PFDP)
TME               Ml SRI LAUWAS S-TATEMENT 0I FIANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
Mr. D. Joseph Wood, Vice President
South Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Woods
RES Statement of Financial Sectogr pli
As you are aware, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is working
closely with the International Development Association (IDA) to develop and
Implement a comprehensive program of financial sector reforms  We have had
considerable success in addressing issues such as rationalization of monetary
policy, liberalization of Interest rates, Introduction of prudential
regulations for banks, reduction of directed credit, reduction of public
sector ownership and removal of public sector control over development finance
Institutions (DPIs), strengthening of debt recovery legislation and adoption
of international accounting and auditing standards   Since 1989 the
Government's reform efforts addressed issues in four areas: economic
stabilization, public sector rationalization, poverty alleviation, and private
sector development. In its efforts to continue a sustainable growth policy
based on export, the GOSL intends to continue to puroues (i) tight
macroeconomic management especially fiscal management through better control
of recurrent expenditure; (ii) rationalization of the public sector and the
poverty alleviation program; and (iII) the provision of an environment which
would further develop the private sector. The GOSL would also continue its
mobilization effort based on improved tax administration and tax reforms that
broaden the tax base and increase the efficiency of the system.
In my letter of April 11, 1991 to you, I outlined in more detail the
steps our Government intended to take tot (i) rationalize monetary policy;
(1i) refine reserve requirements; (III) strengthen bank supervision and
regulation; (iv) restructure and strengthen the two state commercial banks
(People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon); (v) rationalize and improve the operations
of the National Savings Bank (NSB); (vi) reduce the GOSL's shares in the
National Development Bank (NDB) and also reduce the shares of the State
Commercial Banks in the Development Finane Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC);



- 44 -
A3 2
Page 2 .1 6
(vii) rationalize the legialative, regulatory and intitutional tructure of
the state Insurance corportiLons; (vii1) strengthen the accounting regulatory
framework and capital market; and (ix) monitor the impact of debt recovory
legislation enacted In 1990. I am glad to report to you that to date ve have
achieved meny of tho reform  indicated in that letter.  for expleo, we hav
Issued guideline to the banking oector to bring their operational policies
and procedures In lten with international standards, particularly those
relating to capital adequcy ratios, in tome. of the guideline as recomameded
by the Bank of International Settlemeto (Basic Accord).  These guidelines
will be enforced within six month of the recapitalization of the State
Commercil1 Banks. We bave further trenthn d the bank supervision and
regulation, and altbough som  actions awalt implementation, tbse would be
co1upleted soon, as indicated below. Both DPIM, DB and DFCC have been
successfully privatised. A set of reforms e4md at stre gthening the debt
recovery system hs beea iplemeted. Further reforms in this area are
underway. The required legislation has been recently pased and specil
courts to deal exclusively with the debts of the financial itaittutions are in
the process of being establibhed. Finally, Sri Lanka now bas a functioning
Credit Information Bureau (CIBSL) which would belp the financial sector in
their appraisal of their prospective clients.
Although we take prid in what we have already achieved, we realise
that a lot sore remains to be done. In our efforts to provide a framework
within which private sector Investment can be promoted, we realise that the
financial sector is still not equal to the task and needs considerable further
improvement  We are aware that an efficient and functioning financial sector
is a prerequisite for a private sector-led growth. In this regard, we are
focusing our efforts oan improving the efficenicy of the financial system as a
whole by introducing a more competitive enviroament, whch vould assslt us in
the mobilisation of savings, reduction of financial intermediation costs,
efficiAet allocation of credit and enable us to mak credit available at
acceptable rates of Interest.
Whil the steps alredy taken are significant in establishing a
financial system more conducive to industrial development, we realize that tho
t"ak ahead will require considerable effort in order to steer the present
financial system in the right directlon. We, tbhrefore, propose to continue
our present financial reform efforts and implement the rest of the financial
sector progra as described. In addition, in the context of the proposed
Private Finane Development Project, we propose to take action which would
further: (i) improvo the efficiency and depth of the financial sectorg (11)
enable the private sector to expeditiously respond to the changing economic
environment; (III) assit in domestlc resource maobilization for long-term
investmeots; and (iv) help strengthen institutions regulatitg the financial
sector. To assist us In this tsk, we have etablished the Financial Sector
Reform Committee to oversoe the restructuring and commercialization of the
SCB. and the 18B. In addition, the Committee will examin and advise on
further steps to be taken to strengthen and deepen the market for medium- and



- 45 -
AM=EX 2
Page 3 of 6
long-term capital, to reform the insurance industry and to Improve enforcement
of accounting and auditing standards, and related financial sector lssues.
RestructurinM of the State Commercial Banks *CDs) We are In the
restructurlng phase of the 8QBs. With IDA's assistance, the 1991 accounts
were audited by international auditors based on CBSL's prudential regulations
and international accounting standards. The auditors also analyzed the 8CBs'
accounting systems and controls and prepared plans for financial restructuring
of the banks. We Intend to lmplement a series of reforms to enforce
commercial discipline and improve the profitability of the two state banks.
Amendment. to the legislation under which the 8CBs function are being made.
These amendments would enable the 8CBs to function as autonomous commercial
organizations and would level the playing field between the SCB. and private
commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka. The Board of Directors for each of
the SCBs will be strengthened by appointin4 a number of new members who will
be persons with relevant professional qualifications and/or extensive business
experience. We Intend to appoint three now members to the Board of Bank of
Ceylon (total strength of the Board is seven members) and three new members on
the Board of Peopl9's Bank (total strength of the Board is ten members). We
are also in the process of establishing a mechanism for dealing vith the
larger bad loans of the SCBs. Steps are being taken to control the
administrative costs of the SCBs and to Improve credit discipline in their
lending. We espect that the SCBs will be able to reduce their intermediation
costs and achieve profitobility levels comparable to those of the private
banks operating in t8w Lanka within two years of their recapitalization. The
profit targets set for the SCBs exclude interest income from the
recapitalization bonds, and the corresponding amount of bonds, utilized to
upgrade the capital base of the SCBs from zero to the Internationally
acceptable standard#,.of capital adequacy (8 percent). We believe that the
successfil restructuring of the SCBs will ensure that these banks develop a
commercial focus and convert themselves into independent commercially viable
and profitable institutions. Additionally, we wish to re-confirm our
commitment to continue with our policy of refraining from any interference in
the commercial operations of private sector banks.
The Role of Develomnent Finance Institutions (DPls). In order to
strengthen the resource base of DIIs and reduce the public sector role in the
financial sector, the GOSL allowed the DPIs to sell their shares to foreign
technical partners, enter Into joint ventures with private domestic banks,
borrow in the domestic markets, and issue long-term debentures. It also
reduced the 8CBs' shares in DPCC to the level stipulated in the Banking Act.
Wo experienced some delay in the privatization of NDB, caused by issues
relating to share valuation and the proportion of shares to be placed through
the Stock Exchange. The initial sale of 61 perc0nt of the ordinary shares of
3DB has now been completed, and the number of public sector directors OAn DB'.
Board has been reduced to three out of ten members. The new Chairman will be
selected by the Board as provided for In the amended 3DB act. The Government
intends to further reduce its direct and indirect share holding in the NDB to



- 46 -
ANRME 2
Page 4 of 6
lesa than 201 in accordance with the terms of the offer of sale of UDB shares.
At that time, the number of board members appointed by the government or
government-controlled institutions vill be reduced to two out of ten.
Increase the Maturity Structure of Government Market Borrowinas.
Over the last two years most of the GOSL's borrowings made through the
Treasury bills at market rates were in the form of short-term instruments
(with maturities of nen year or less). The limited maturity structure of the
market instruments used by the government along with same regulatory
constraints hampered the development of an active secondary market in Treasury
bills, and this in turn hindered the development of a market for debt
securities from the private sector. The GOSL has now begun a program to
lengthen the maturity structure of public debt instruments and to remove the
regulatory constraints which had impeded the development of a secondary market
in Treasury instruments. Legislative provisions have already been made to
permit issue of Treasury bills with maturities longer than one year, and Rupee
Securities Ordinance is being amended to allow issuance of Rupee Securities
(Treasury debt instruments with interest coupon) at market determined rates.
A number of primary dealers were appointed to deal with the purchase and
distribution of Treasury bills in July 1992. The CBSL is in the process of
implementing a series of regulatory changes to promote the development of a
secondary market in public debt instruments* We expect that these reforms
will not only decrease the economic costs of public sector borrowings but will
also directly help in the development of a private sector bond markets by
establishing a yield curve for use by the private sector as benchmark to price
its debt, and help to develop a secondary market infrastructure for the
promotion of a liquid market for debt instruments   We expect to achieve, in
the medium-term, more stable macroeconomic conditions and to effect a
reduction In inflation rates, as already envisaged in the Policy Framework
Paper. These reforms will, we believe, create the necessary conditions for
the development of deep end efficient financial and capital markets.
The current system of withholding tax on treasury securities is
designed for efficient collection of taxes without due regard to its effect on
the development of a secondary market in these socurities and the consequences
on overall borrowing costs. The GOSL intends to review the present system of
collecting withholding taxes on financial instruments with a view to making
the necessary amendments to remove its adverse effects on development of
secondary trading In _inancial instrumonts.
The Emulovee Provident and EmDloyees Trust Fund (EPP and ETF) and
National Savinsts Bank tNSB). EPP and ET7 are two major funds that represent a
huge and rapidly growing pool of long-term resources which could contribute to
the financing of productive investments in our economic development. In the
past, savings in these institutions have primarily been invested in short- to
medium-term public debt instruments issued at managed rates, creating high
financial costs to the private sector by denying it access to term savings in



- 47 -
ANNE 2
Page 5 of 6
the country. The 6OSL will review the role that EPF and ETP will play In the
liberalized finanial environment and will modernize, and institutionally
strengthen the EPP and ITF, consistent with their redefined roles. At the
same time, we are lmplementing a program to gradually increase the amount of
contractual term savings from these institutions to be made available for the
use of private sector investments. As part of this program, EPF and ETP will
invest at least 5 percent of their inflow in non-government securities in
1993, rising to 10 percent by June 1995. NSB has already started the process
of diversifying its investments end we expect that by the end of 1993 at least
10 percent of its investments will be in non-government securities.
Thereafter, the proportions are to be Increased in light of experience gained
by GOSL and IDA from the initial phase. The GOSL intends to allow complete
investment autonomy for these institutions so that the proportion of funds
invested by these institutions in government securities are not any higher
than what is consistent with the institutions' independent investment goals to
fulfil their designated objectives.
nsurance ComDanies. Like the pension funds, public sector
insurance companies mobilize large pools of long-term resources of which
insignificant amounts are providing term finance for productive investment.
The GOSL would address the underlying problems by: (i) introducing a new
Insurance Act which vould improve and strengthen the regulatory framework
under which the insurance industry functions; (ii) allowing insurance
companies to pursue more sophisticated portfolio management techniques; and
(iiI) reducing market segmentation and Increasing competition. Recently, the
GOSL removed the special privileges of the state-owned insurance corporations
by converting them into companies operating under the Companies Act and
proposes to coumence privatizing the two state insurance companies by December
1993.
Bank Sunervision and Retulation. The Government, through the CBSL,
strengthened the banking supervision and regulation by: (i) enforcing the
minimum capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent of risk adjusted assetss (ii)
designing, issuing and implementing a more rigorous loan classification system
and provision requirements; and (iII) focusing inspection on the accuracy and
classification information provided by the banks. However, we need to further
strengthen the laws and regulations as well as CBSL supervision capacity and
maximize the use of our resources. CBSL wLll review the current
organizational structure of its three supervision departments with a view to
rationalize and coordinate the current structure and upgrade the technical
capability of its staff.
Accountina Regulations and Financial Disclosures. As a result of
changes in their regulatory framework implemented at the beginning of 1992,
banks are required by CBSL to comply with a prescribed format which uses
international accounting standards for reporting and disclosure. The
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) has adopted all of the
international accounting and auditing standards issued to date. The GOSL
intends to give these standards legal force, and extend the coverage of these
standards, which currently only apply to listed companies, to larger unlisted



- 48 -
AMf   2
Pag. 6 of 6
companies and to improve Its enforcement of these standards by setting up an
Accounting Standards Board. The board will be set up as a statutory body and
staffed with technical expert.. It will be responsible for Investigating
cases of non-compliance with accounting standards and to recommend appropriate
action by various bodies that have specific jurisdiction over ladividual
cases, e.g., SIC, ICASL, DM, etc. We are also in the process of
investigating the feasibility of Introducing compulsory malpractice insurance
for auditors to encourage market pressures for compliance with auditing
standards and to provide assets in case of losses suffered due to negligence
on the part of the auditors.
Debt Recovery Measures. In 1990, the 0OSL changed the legal
framework of debt recovery In order to remove the weaknesses Identified at
that time. In the same year, the Credit Information Bureau was created to
assist In improvement of credit decisions by the financial lntermediarie.
Since then the government has strengthened the operational capacity of the
Bureau and has enacted wide ranging legislative changes to improve debt
recovery laws. We are also in the process of establishing special.courts
exclusively for debt recovery to reduce the backlog of such cases,,nd to
expedite settlement of future claims.
Introductlion of Variable Interest Rates. In support of the
objectives of the project, we would initiate action to on-lend the proceeds of
this loan at variable rates only. In order to facilitate the on-lending by
PCIs at variable rates, we have instructed the CBSL to publish, on aweekly
basis, the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AIDR) that could be used by the PCIs
as a reference rate. Since lenading and on-lending on a variable rate are not
coummon in the Sri Lankan banking system, banks will need technical assistance
to enable them to monitor and control their interest rates risks and to
develop appropriate instruments for hedging themselves against the risk that
they do not wish to assume. The GOSL intends to provide this assistance to
the PCIs from the proceeds of this Credit.
We believe that the measures outlined above will help develop a
strong financial sector responsive to the needs of our industrial development.
The measures taken by the GOSL over the past two years have already had a
positive Impact on the financial and industrial sector and the response can be
noted in the increased financing needs of the sector. In this regard the GOSL
requests the rapid processing of the proposed project of US$60 million.
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Yours sincerely,
Is/
R. Paskaralingan
Secretary to the Treasury



49 -
ARM 3
. 1
M&VAIX 1JUN03C DRv3LOmU P1ORCT (MP?)
ITZREST RATE 8TRUMM DECENIM   1986-DECEH    1992
(in percait per ===)
D     e~zb  31                       1964      1967      1968       1969      1990       1991        1992
Cmam BDak Rat                        it        10        10         14        n.         17          17
*. Priuu 11                                 t0A1           18.18.9   152-173   15S-17.6   118-149    14317.1
. s    qmwoy mado.                   it        113      23         205        2Q5        16.75       18
coammuw Banb
tam Piem
Avaqe Palm lA q14.8                          14.2      169        18         19.2       19A6       20.2
Stewed Lom   & Ovsidia              1236     9.8.26    9.8-26     9.82       10-25      9.30       2-30
SahVipDepxsI                        6-12      6.11      5.11       5-14       5-14       4.75.14    3.25-14
Time Deposts
- 6 mantI                           73-13    7-13       8-115      8-16      8-20        12-18      11-185
- 12 maNts                          8.5-14    8.5-14    9-15.5     11-20.5    11-21      10         13.5-20
NaMo.i Seiwho Dak Deposit Raft 
-Sswho Depodis                     112       112       112          14        16.2       14          14
11   ~-6                         -                ___
-1-mosath Phed DepIbt              12-13      M1          I       1-1-       115-17    17-18.5    17-18.5
Idda Rate of QruilstIauMdam 
S* eM              wfe    Ia Oa2                8-20     8-20        W169      16-19      19-20.5    20.5
AD   etC e                          14-18    14-19     14-19      14-19      14-19      14-19      14219
- ND-                               7-14      7-14      82-15      103-17.5  7-8        7-8         113-18.5
of Iii. uw   -p  by mhe Cemud Dak cm atvnm~  to cosamemb ban tar tb*i tanpoany liquiity purposaL
I-0  Rcenn aet Coltlm
Samou:c Ceut Bank of Sa tAnka - Mmy 1990; 1bS 10, 11,12 of CGtal &* MAydkh b  JUp  1992).



- 50 -
AMNI 4
Page I of 2
MVATE    NI BE LOTIT PEgg=     IMP)
ELIGINIUTY CRITERnA 10 PCI.
In order to become eligible to participate in this credit and to maintain
their eligibilUty, credit institutions must be privately owned and controlled,
and meet the following criteriat
1.    IDA should receive a satisfactory statement from the Board of Directors
of the institution outlining:
(a) listitution's business strategy and operating policies;
(b)   details of their existing term lending progras and portfolio
management schemea, If any;
(c) proposal a to how they would plan to utilize the facility
including anticipated sectorwise exposure, how would they get
Internally organised to market the scheme, evaluate the proposals
and manage subsequent follow up monitoring and recoveries; and
(d)   ame the senior officer who is made in charge of this project and
key staff of his tesm.
2.   A satisfactory audit report from the external auditors acceptable to IDA
confirming that they had carried out their audit of the credit
institution In accordance with the accounting and auditing standards
adopted by the ICASL.
3.    Compliance  ith Ministry of Finance/Central Bank guidelines on
prudential regulations, capital adequacy, classification of risk assets,
provisioning against non-performing loans, sector exposure limits, and
disclosure and reporting requirements.
4.   A confirmation that the credit institution continues to maintain its
eligibility as a participating credit institution under any other
development credit agreements that It may have signed such as The Third
Small and Medium Industries Project February 10, 1988 (SKI-III), The
Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project dated July 15, 1991 (SMI-IV)
and The Third Industrial Development Project dated September 19, 1988
(IDP-III).
5.   A confirmation from the external auditors that, at the date of its
application for participation and subsequently at the end of its
financial year, the credit institution mat the following financial



- 51 -
A3X 4
Page 2 of 2
criteria, ratio requirements and ewposure limits calculated In
accordance with IDA standard guidelines:
(a)    a minimum total cash collection ratio of principal and Interest
calculated on a rolling twelve month bae"i of 80 percent;
(b)    a minimum total caesh collection ratio of principal only
calculated on a rolling twelve month baso_ of 80 percentt
(c)    a minim=m after tax profit equivalent to 92 p.a on average
shareholders funds.
(d)    a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25 times:
(e)    a maximum portfolio infection rate of 201;
(f)    a maximum debt equity ratio of 8tl:
(g)    minmulm capital adequacy ratios of 42 and 8S for tier-i and
tier-2, reepectively as required by CBSL guidelines;
(h)    loans to any one party or to any one group of compantes must not
exceed 102 of PCI's total "sets.
(i)    loans to any one sector, as defined In the UN Standard
Classification of Economic Activities, must not exceed 301 of
PCI's total loan portfolio.



- 52 -
pose 1 of 4
PRIVATE EINANCI DH OJECT EiIDP)
AMINJITRAflV3 USIT - STRUCTURI AND TURKS GE UElinENME
Obiectives
1.   The purpose of the credit funds being provided through the PCI. 1. to
facilitate access to credit by private businesses, starting sound end
economically viable projecto, without negative environmetal effects, by
encouraging and assisting credit institutions to waske loans oan the basi of
project appraisals rather than solely on collateral security and providing
partial financing for such loans on appropriate terms and conditions.
Eligible Credit Institutions
2.   Private cammercial Banks and Development finance Institutions, approvrd
by the CBSLIMOF, which enter Into a Participation Agreement with the GOSL will
be eligible for financing. These agreeenats ill specify: the
responsibilities of the credit institutions for project promotion, apprlaal,
supervision, repayment of financing provided, and for compliance with CBSLINI
operational guidelines and PCI policies acceptable to the GOSL and IDA. Those
agreements will provide the. contractual basis on whieh loans will be financed.
The Administrative Unit will on behalf of the GOSL prepare these agrements In
consultation with the PCI. for signing by the GOSL.
9litiblo Suburolects
3.   Loans made to private enterprises engaged in productive operations ad
services, but excluding the provision of financial services uch a leasing or
money lending, would be eligible for finaucitg provided thats
(a)    the project is financially sound and economically viable, with
due account taken of such factor as equity/debt ratio, with the
promoter contributing at le"at 3* percent of equity. The
subproject makes due use of local resources including labor and
raw material, and is expected to be profitablo ia a competitive
environment;
(b)    the project will result in the creation of new productive
capacity, allow the enterprise to itcrease Its level of
production, or improve the quality or price competitiveness of
its products;
(c)    the project will be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained In accordance with Internationally accepted safety



- 53 -
AMNEX 5
Pag8 2 of 4
codes and inspection standards, as well as environmental
protection controls as defined by CEAg and
(d)    the loan to be financed on term, and conditions approved by IDA.
Direction and Manatement
4.   Overall reeponsibility for establishing operational and financial
policies of the use of the Credit will be determined by the GOSL in close
consultation with the IDA. The Administrative Unit will be responsible to
implement these policies and monitor compliance of the policies by PCIo. The
operations of the Administrative Unit will be managed by a manager appointed
by the Board of Directors of MDI In consultation with IDA. The General
Manager of the Administrative Unit will be responsible for:
(a)    processing requeets for financing for loans appraved by PCIe
under their free limit, and processing requests for financing
"for loans excseding PCIs free limit approved by IDA;
(b)    processing requests for technical assistance funds after
obtaining IDA approval for its use in each instances
(c)    recruiting and managing an adequate support staff;
(d)    promoting improvemento in the project appraisal capabilities of
PCI., through supervision, monitoring, and training, and
providing assistance with the procurement of any goods financed
under this project, ensuring compliance with relevant IDA
procurement guidell.es as specified for this project;
(e)    informing IDA from time to time regarding the progress of the
project, providing regularly reports regarding the progress of
the project, assisting monitoring and/or evaluation missians;
(f)    providing Technical Assistance to PCIs to lmprove their
knowledge and undrstsanding regardiag the environmental impact
of subprojects and acquiring the knowledge to carry out and/or
supervise environmental assessment studies as appropriates and
(g)    performing such other task and functions as are necessary to
achieve the objectives of the project.
Terms of Finance
S.   The terms and conditions under which finsacing will be provided will be
established from time to tim by the GOSL in consultation with the IDA,
according to the following principless



- 54 -
ANE  S
Page 3 of 4
(a)    the project sponsor and the credit institutions should make a
contribution to financing the project which for the sponsor
should nct be lees than 30 percent equity and for the PCI not
less than 40 percent of the loan amounts
(b)    interest rates paid by the enterprises being financed should
reflect competitive rates paid in the sector and would be
adjusted every three or six months depending on agreement
between PCI and the COSL, taking account of the interest rate
variability in PCIs borrowings of Project proceeds from the
GOSL, based of an index acceptable to IDA;
(c)    the interest rate charged to credit institutions on financed
loans should at least equal to the average weighted deposit rate
(AWDR), or any such index as IDA and the GOSL decide. The AWDR
is the weighted average cost on all interest-bearing term funds,
including savings accounts (not including NSB accounts), fixed
deposits, certificates of deposit, adjusted by foregone interest
on CBSL reserve requirements. This rate will be published by
CBSL on a weekly basis. The interest rate is subject to review
by IDA and may be changed to an appropriate Treasury security
rate at the Mid-Term Review, or any other appropriate time
during the course of the project implementation. New base for
interest rates will apply to new loans only;
(d)    interest due from PCIs to the GOSL shall accrue on a day to day
basis based on a year of 360 days and shall be calculated on the
loan account for each separate interest period. Interest period
shall be a period of three or six months. First interest period
shall commence from the date of first disbursement and shall end
three or six months therefrom. Interest period for all
disbursements, other than the first disbursement, shall commence
from the date of such disbursement and end on the date the
current interest period ends. At the end of an interest period,
all disbursements (attracting separate interest rates) shall be
merged together and shall be rolled over as one amount for the
next interest period; and
(e)     loan maturities and grace periods should reflect the repayment
capacity of the project to be financed but should not be more
than ten years with a maximum grace period of two years.
Credit Risks and Maturities
6.    The credit institutions shall be responsible for repaying subloan
amounts to the GOSL according to the agreed schedule, regardless of
whether the credit institution has received repayment from the
enterprise to which the subloan was made. Unless otherwise agreed by
the GOSL, the repayment schedule for the subloans financed shall extend



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Pag. 4 of 4
for the smne period as the loan financed and shall include a similar
grace period for the repayment of principal, provided the grace period
is appropriate in the circumstances and does not exceed two years and
the maxiium period for repayment of principal shall not exceed ten
years.
Other Resnonaiblilties of Credit Institutions
7.    Participation Agreements between the GOSL and the Credit Institution
will require the Credit Tnstitutions to:
(a)    ensure that financing provided is applied fully and exclusively
for the purpose agreed when the loan was uade; and
(b)    provide such information on the progress of the projects and
enterprises financed to the Administrative Unit as the GOSL in
consultation with the IDA may reasonably request.



- 56 -
AS=  6
Pags 1 of 10
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPaNzT INOJECT (MPTP)
EVALUATION OF TIn PCI.
1.   Of all the domestic commercial banko and DPI'o, the two publicly-owned
commercial banks (BOC and PB) did not meet the pre-appraisal criteria and
were, therefore, not Included for detailed evaluation. Evaluation of the
remaining four private domestic commercial banks namely, CBOC, Hatton, Sampath
and Seylan and the two DPI's, namely DPCC and ND!, is noted below.
DEVELOPMENT PIIANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLO (DMCO)
2.   DPCC was created by a special act of Parliament in 1956, some 36 years
ago. For years it remained a closely held organization with Its shares
largely awned by institutions and the government. During 1991/92 DFGC's paid
up capital was increased from Re 100 million to Rs 169 million partly by
capitalization of reserves (bonus issue) and partly by the Issue of new shares
at a premium. This new public issue has now in¢reases the number of its
shareholders to well over 12,000 and includes small individual shareholders
and private businesses. As a result of Its increased capital base, DFCC's
tier-I ratio was 18.4Z and tier-2 was 20.6% as of March 1992.
3.    During its most recent fiscal year (ending March 1992)4 DFCC showed a
significant increase in its after-tax profits which increased by 742 over the
year to an all tim high of Rs 266 million.  Its earnings on its shareholders'
funds amounted to 28.2Z and dividends to 32.6S. DPCC's total assets also grew
by 352 from Rs 3.7 billion to Re 5 billion. Most of this increase was funded
by increased borrowings and fresh capital raised from the market. Although
its asset base is not as big as some of the private domestic commercial banks,
DPCC plays a critical role in providing finance to sectors where commercial
banks would not otherwise lend. Over the years it has traditionally been
active in providing medium- and long-term credit and making equity investments
in the private sector enterprises. Recently however, it his also diversified
itself in the non-funded fee based income activities. In December 1991, DPCC
successfully launched its first unit trust. It is also engaged in
underwriting of share Issues and in 1991192 it underwrote shares orth Re 158
million. DPCC has also floated a venture capital company in which it owns 29Z
of share capital. Other partners include ADS & Nippon Investment. Other
equity investments by DPCC went up significantly from Re 182 to Rs 352
million.
4. DPCC has been raising funds from the local market through private
placements of its debentures. It intends to use this vehicle more
aggressively in the coming years to provide itself vith an alternative source
of funds. Its present borrowings, like its main competitor NDB, mainly com
from credit lines from international development agencie.



- 37 -
AN=  6
Pago 2 of 10
5.   A signficant change in DPCC's Income strem was an ireaing
contribution camg frce leiln  activities.  During 1991192 lesng Income
grew to 81 of its total icome.  In cming years DICC intends to concentrate
more on this activity. DMCC conduct Its entire operations from its head
office and through two of its branche. where it has a total staff of 199. The
bank ts efficiently run and tightly maaged. Its systems are satisfactory and
It has a trained and well qualified team. DPCC wvs the most profitable
amongst all DPI'. and private domestic commercial banks In the country with a
5.32 return on assets. During the previous year, DCC was also the most
profitable bank but with a return on asets of 4.1S.  1PCC' noet
intermediation margin was only 4.32 which wa sgnificaently low when compared
with 3DB's and that of private damestic commrcial banks. It Is to DPCC's
credit that despite low margins DFCC was able to become the most profitable
bank.
6. DPCC's debt to equity ratio was 3.8:1 and Its debt service cover was 2.8
tines. As DFCC does not have a customer deposit base, it was able to maintain
lower liquidity ratios whch for 1991/92 was only 4.72 of its assets, 872 of
which were in the fora of loaus. Its prinipaLl cash collection ratio was 832,
principal plus interest collection ratio was 80.92, and portfolio infection
ratio was 17.12. Its loan loss roserves were rather small at 2.2Z of loan
book. With a strong balance shoeet and a well directed dtrategy for income
generation, DFCC is well placed to grow from this position of strength. With
some assistance, it may be possible for it to go to international markets for
raising long-term funds which it can well utilize because of its strong credit
and investment banking toeas.
NATIONAL DEVILOftKU  DAM (3DB)
7.   3DB was established in 1979 under an act of Parliament with a subscribed
capital of Rs 600 mllnion of which Rs 450 millon were paid up in cash and the
balance Rs 150 million comprised of promissory notes payable on demand by the
government. Betor privatizatiou, 672 of its subscribed capital was held by
the GOSL, 172 by CBSL, 82 by SOC and 8S by PB. Privatization of 3DB was
completed in Match 1993. The GOSL divested 612 of the shares in 3DB through a
public offering. Of the remaining 392, 151 shall be held by the government,
10 by Central Bank, and 72 each by the Bank of Ceylon and People. Bank.
8.   During 1992 and in preparation for the privatization, tbe GOSL & 3DB
agreed to cancel the Rs lS0 million promissory motes that were used to
subscribe its share capital thereby effectively reducing 3DB'o capital base.
Before this capital reduction, 3DBI' capital adequacy ratios were 24.62 and
33.32 for tier-i and tier-2, respectively. After the capital reduction In
1992, the ratios fell to 19.71 end 27.32 respectively. Despite the reductions
these ratios were well above the mialfim= required.
9.   3DB's main activities include providing of wedium- and long-tern
finance, equity and debenture finance, guarantees and underviting, issuing
letters of credit, mobilizing internal and external capital resources as well



- 58 -
AMNE! 6
Page 3 of 10
as stimulating development of capital markets directly and through the actions
of its subsidiaries. VDE's cama funding comes from refinance facilities
provided by the international development agencies through the GOSL. Despite
this relative ease of securing debt, 3DB has disciplined itself to remain
within reasonable debt equity ratios. In 1991 its debt equity ratio was 2.5:1
and its debt service cover was a good 2.7 times. Borrowings accounted for 66G
of its total funds. Internal cash generation in terms of retained earnings
was over 172. NDB produced an after-tax return on assets of 3.62 In 1991 up
from 2.92 the year before. Its return on paid up share capital was 41.72 and
on total shareholders' funds 13.22. Due to relatively undemanding public
ownership, it was able to again pay a low dividend of 4.52 and maintain a high
dividend cover of 9.3 times.
10. NDB's loan portfolio was 94.82 of its assets, most of which were term
loans. In 1991, IDB's collection ratios had improved as compared to previous
years. Cash collections of principal stood at 83.91 and collection of
principal & interest at 80.51, 11.11 of this portfolio was affected by
arrears. *DB had a generous level of loan loss reserves which amounted to
9.11 of its loan portfolio. NDB ti well managed and operates as an efficient
organization. Its staff is well trained and well qualified and staff numbers
have been kept under control. As a result its per employee figures are
highest on all counts. For example, profit after-taxlemployee was Re 1.3
million, total assets/employee were Rs 38.1 million and fixed assets/employee
were Re 739,000.
11.   In 1991, profits after-tax grew by 541 to Re 250 million making it the
second most profitable bank amongst DFI's and private domestic cominrcial
banks. During the year ended December 1992, NDB's loan portfolio grew by 49Z
to Rs 6.6 billion and its investments in subsidiaries and other compaaies grew
by 272 to Re 320 million. This made IDB the largest lender and investor in
the market.
COMNERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON (CEOC)
12.   CBOC was established in 1969 as a public company with 401 equity
participation by Standard Chartered Soldings UK Limited which still retains a
proportional representation on the boatrd. In 1991 with return on assets of
1.51, CBOC was the most profitable private domestic commercial bank in the
country. CBOC is generally well regarded in banking circles and Is considered
to have good quality assets in its portfolio. In 1991 it had Rs 7.4 billion
in its loans plus bills portfolio, which amounted to 77.31 of its total
assets. DictAted by prudence it has built loan loss reserves which now stand
at 3.81 of its loan book, the largest amongst private domestic commercial
banks. CBOC maintains a good mix between term lending ana short term
exposures. Its term loans were 541 of its loan portfolio and short term bills
181. Its position as the biggest lender amongst private domestic commercial
banks was at the cost of a high advances to deposits ratio which in 1991 stood
at 90.51 while its peers were maintaining significantly lower advances to



- 59 -
AMNNE 6
Page 4 of 10
deposits ratios mostly in the range of 65Z to 752. Its share capital vss
doW.oled in 1989 from Rs 50 million to Rs 100 million which tmproved its
capital adequacy ratios. Its tier-I ratio in 1991 was 6.41 and tier-2 stood
at 11.22.
13. Like some other private domestic commercial banks, CBOC also suffered
from the quality of its mampower resources. It urgently needs to further
streamline its systems and procedures and concentrate on training its staff.
CBOC had the lowest fixed assets per employee indicating a lower level of
automation and computerization as campared to other private domestic
commercial banks, even though it had a high level of assets per employee. CBOC
had the highest personnel costs of private domestic commercial banks. Its
cost per employee in 1991 was Rs 113,500. CBOC's net intermediation margin of
6.41 vas on the lower side amongst private domestic comercial banks, but
despite lower margins it had the best before and after tax profits of all
private domeatic commercial banks. Return on paid up capital was 1432 and on
shareholders funds it was 202.  It incressed its dividend by 5S to 251.  This
level of dividend still left it with a decent dividend cover. CBOC had the
highest costing deposits amongst private domestic commercial banks. Its
interest cost of deposits was 9.31 while other private domestic commercial
banks were raising cheaper deposits costing between 7.91 to 8.4Z. CBOC's debt
to equity ratio was 1.5s1 and its debt service cover was 1.3 times. Its cash
collection ratio for principal was 821, for principal plus interest the ratio
was 80.41 and 10.71 of CBOC's portfolio was infected with arrears.
14. During the year CBOC opened two new branches bringing the total branch
network to 21. Its deposits grew by 331 from 5.2 billion t> 6.9 billion over
the year giving 331 growth. Advances increased by 241 to 7.3 billion and
total assets increased by 301 to 9.6 billion. The 301 increase in CBOC's
a"set base was primarily deposit-led. CBOC also substantially increased its
contingent liabilities which went up from 6.4 to 10.3 billion, an increase of
611 over the year. Although CBOC's total income was up by 201, there was no
increase In its after-tax profits which actually dropped by 61 over the year.
CBOC's profitability has been consistently dropping for the last three years.
Its after-tax return on assets in 1989 was 2.61 which fell to 2.11 in 1990 and
this year it further fell to 1.51. Even at this level CBOC Was the most
profitable domestic comercial bank.
BATTON NATIONAL BAND
15. Hatton Was created in 1970 out of the amalgamation of two branches of
Grindlays Bank Ltd. In 1974 it acquired the business of Mercantile Bank and
in 1989 that of Emirates Bank Intern-ational. By 1991 Hatton had become Sri
Lanka's largest privAtt domestic commercial bank in terms of both total assets
and customor deposits. Its asset base was bigger than that of two DFI's.
altton is controlled by two business (trading) houses who between them own 601
of its share capital. The rmaining shares are held by the public. Hatton
has been growing its branch network in a slow but sure mnnner. For the last
three years it has opened new branches at a rate of only 3 a year while some



- 60 -
ARM  6
Peg. 5 of 10
of the other new beaks have apended their branch network In a big way. At
the end of 1991 Ratton had establised a network of 41 braches. Although
Batton was not the largest beak in teos of wmber of branhes, it did rank
largest in term of its staff strength. These higher staff numbers indicate
low degree of automation end need for som streamlining of Batton's management
structure. This Is also evidenced by Batton's low fied ssets per employes
and low profits per employee figures.
16. Batton has the lowest Issued share capital of all private domeotic
commercial banks. In 1991 its issued share capital was only 0.6Z of Its
assets. Rowever, because Natton Is the oldeat of the private domestic
commercial banks, it bhe accunlated large retaimed earnings end reserves
which make its capital adequacy ratios look reasonable. Both tier-i and tier-
2 ratios standting at 6.2Z and 1O.lS were above the mdnimum required by 8I8.
Perhaps becauso of Its owners' background, Batton appears to have developed
its expertise in providing short-term trade and export finace. It has
positioned itself such that It captures good export business from local
traders and blue chip companies. As a result of this policy, Its short-term
exposures were high at 26Z of its loan portfolio making it the leader amongst
the private domestic commercial banks in that segment of the market. Its tern
loan portfolio, which was at Its 3 year low, is rather small at 392 of total
loasm. Although this ratio did improve In 1992, it reflects that management's
focu is primarily oan trade finance. The bank will have to concentrate its
efforts In building a strong credit team to take full advantage of its
participation In the PPDP credit line for tern financing.
17. Although Hatton's loans plus bills portfolio wso an acceptable 692 of
total assets, it was disconcerting to see 9.52 of its loass categorized as
non-performing. It also had a low cash collection ratio for principal of 58S
and for principal plus interest of 762 (without taking into account any loan
vrite-offa). Ratton's loan loss reserves were 3.1Z of its loan portfolio.
Although as a ratio it is about the average for private domestic co mercial
banks, it is considered low becauso of Ratton's rather high portfolio
Infection rate and its low collection ratios. Despite its low collection
ratios, Rattan appears to have allowed its loan loss reserves to decline over
the last three years from a high in 1989 of 5.62 of loans to the present level
of 3.12. Ratton's liquidity ratio of 232 represents assets In the form of
cash plus due from other bsaks. It had very little exposure in the capital
markets. Its investment portfolio was les then 12 of assets. Rattan's
advances to deposits ratio of 752 Is about the Industry average for private
domestic commerecia banks. Its also bas a good deposits to assets ratio. Its
deposits were 73Z of total assets.
18. Rattan has been cautiously developing its leasing business an In 1991 it
had the largest exposure of all private domestic commercial banks (0.72 of its
total loans). It had a rather high debt in its balance sheet, which despite
its high level of profitability, gives it an uncomfortable lebt service cover
of 1.6 times.  Ratton bad a net intermdiation margin of 5.82, but had the
second highest after-tax profit figures at 1.42. Due to its rather small



- 61 -
ARM  6
Page 6 of 10
equity base, Hattou's return on paid up capital was 2292 and on shareholders
funds was 25S. -A high return on paid up capital resulted in a high rate of
dividend of 402. But despite high dividend rate, Ratton managed to maintain
good dividend cover of 5.7 times.
19. Rattoan is the largest mobilizer of deposits amongst private domestic
commercial banks and it mwaages to do so at the lowest cost. Batton's
Interest cost of deposits was only 7.92 while other private domestic
commercial banks costs of deposits were higher. As Batton's loan book is
trade related and is of short-term nature, it gives Batton rather low interest
licome. Hatton's interest income on loans at 15.62 was lowest of private
domestic commercial banks. Now that Batton has reasonable capital adequacy
ratios and acceptable profitability ratios, what it needs to concentrate on is
its debt recovery programs. Simultaneously it will have to concentrate on
atrengthening its credit team If It is to develop its term lending portfolio.
A general Improvement in the quality of its staff and an improvement in its
operating systems and procedures is also required.
SANPATE DM  LUIITED
20. Sampath Bank was established in 1987. FY91 was its fourth year in
business and it brought major changes for the bank. During 1991 Sampath's
founder, chairman and four other directors resigned from the board and
problems were reported In its loan book. A new chairman was brought in after
intervention by the Central Bank and a tine of austerity set in. The new
board decided to consolidate the bank's position. No new branches were opened
during the year and no additions in staff were made. Tough cost reduction and
control measures were adopted includting the cutting back of the bank's rather
ambitious program of automation and ATMs. The tough new policies paid off and
bank profits before tax went up from Rs 17 mi11ion to Rs 59 million giving
2432 increase over the year. Despite this increase, Sampath remained the
least profitable bank amongst the four private domestic commercial banks with
an after-tax return on assets of O.9S (other private domestic commercial banks
returns were in the rang of 12 to 1.52). Sampath's low return on assets is
attributable mainly to high operating costs and not to low margins. Its net
intermediation margin was the second highest at 8.72. Its operating costs of
6.12 of assets were highest of the four private domestic commercial banks
while other private domestic commercial banks costs were in the range of 3.12
to 3.9Z. Its personnel costs at Rs 109,000 per employee were the second
highest in absolute terms.
21. With 13 branches in 1991 and lternal restrictions on their expansion,
it rem_ined the smallest of the four private domestic commercial banks.
However, despite handicaps its deposit base grew over the year by 171 giving
it a deposits to assets ratio of 742. The bank's loan portfolio also grew by
as much as 262. Loan loss reserves were increased by a sizeable amount to
reach a level of 3.3Z of the loan portfolio up from 2.22 the year before.



- 62 -
ANM 6
Page 7 of 10
22. The bank was unable to improve Its capital adequacy ratios despite
doubling of its paid up capital two years ago. Its tier-I ratio in December
1991 stood at 62 and tior-2 ratio at 7.72 as against required min4imm of 42
and 82, respectively. At ito present level of operations the bank needs
fresh injection of capital if it is to grow. Due to its diversified
shareholder base, with more than 12,000 shareholders on the register and no
one holding more than 102, its ability to launch a successful rights issue is
dependent on the buoyancy of the Sri Lankan equity markets.
23.   The previous problem with Its loan book and its resolve to sort them
out has resulted in the strengthening of its credit department and
improvements in its collection ratios. In 1991 collection ratio for principal
stood at 932 and for principal plus interest at 892. Sampath's portfolio
infection rate of 18.82 is highest amongst all private domestic commercial
banks and DPI's and needs attention. Sampath had the highest term lending
portfolio of the four private domestic commercial banks with its term loans
standing at 632 of its total loans. Sampath's leading role in the market in
term lending puts it at an advantageous position to utilize the PFDP facility.
Sampath funds its asset growth largely from the increase in its deposit base
and not from borrowings. This has enabled it to keep its debt equity ratio at
the negligible levels.
24.  Sampath's prioritle3 now lie with its problem loans, making adequate
loan loss provisions, installing an aggressive loan recovery team, paying
attention to monitoring and control systems. Only then can it get on with the
job of reclaiming its market position and market share, for both deposits and
assets, Which have slipped over the last year. It may have to carefully
evaluate the policy for branch expansion because during its period of
consolidation other banks have gone in most of the geographical areas which
had the potential and were under-banked. Its emphasis on technology may in
fact be tbe most desirable course for it to follow which may eventually help
it take the market lead and launch the more profitable products and services.
SEYLAN BARR LIMITED
25.  In 1991, the fifth year of its establishment, Seylan Bank had become the
largest private domestic bank in terms of branch network, with 46 branches
spread over the country and still expanding in 1992. Its deposit base more
than doubled to reach Re 3.5 billion, total assets increased by 712 and loans
portfolio by 52Z. Seylan provides short-term finance largely through
overdrafts which are renewed on an annual basis and trust receipts for imports
which are usually for one to three months. Its term lending was low at 292 of
its loan book and most of it was under donor supported finance schemes.
26. Seylan had the best collection ratios amongst private domestic
commercial banks. Its total collection ratios for principal was 93.32 and for
principal plus Interest was 93.82. Also, it had the lowest portfolio
infection rate amongst private domestic commercial banks (0.92 of its
portfolio was effected by arrears). These ratios partly reflect the fact that



- 63 -
AUNEX 6
Page 8 of 10
its loan portfolio is rather fresh (the bank was created only four years ago
and real incidence of bad loans has not yet filtered through) and partly
because a substantial part of it is of short-term nature which does not entail
the usual risks of project financing.
27.  Seylan's loan lose reserves are low.  Its LIR amounts to only 1.11 of
Its loan portfolio which Is the lowest of the four banks. Although there is
no evidence of any problems with its loan book, management agrees that an
increase in loan loss reserves is urgently needed. Although at the time of
its incorporation Seylan had the second largest paid up capital of all private
domestic commercial banks, its overall capital base remains very small. In
1992 Seylan increased its capital by a Rs 25 million (12.51 of its paid up
capital) but did not materially improve its capital adequacy ratios. In 1991
its capital adequacy ratios stood at 5.5S and 6.51 for tier-I and tier-2,
respectively, the lowest amongst private domestic commercial banks and below
the minimum BI8 standards. In terms of profitability, Seylan had the highest
net intermediation margin of all private domestic commercial banks of 9.1S.
This did not however make it the most profitable bank of the four. Its after-
tax return on assets was 1X. Its operating costs, however, were lowest at
3.11 of assets making it the most tightly run private domestic comercial
bank.
28. Towards the end of 1991 Seylan entered into an agreement with the
Central Bank for the taking over of ex-BCCI operations in the country. The
financial results of the acquisition were not incorporated in the books until
1992. The June 1992 consolidated results show a surge in Seylan$s business,
assets and deposits. The terms of the agreement enabled Seylan to acquire
assets at a substantial discount amounting to over Rs 1.1 billion. Faced with
a high tax liability, beylan now wishes to make substantial loan loss
provisions but such treatment has not yet been agreed by the auditors, the
Central Bank or Internal Revenue Department. This acquisition at deep
discount has in effect given Seylan an infusion of additional capital. To the
extent that this discount is paid out in the form of dividends, it will affect
Seylan's otherwise inadequate capital adequacy ratios which could move from
5.51 and 6.51 in 1991 to 4.51 and 19.91 in June 1992 for tier-i and tier-2,
respectively.
29. Seylan lntends to become market leader in providing new financial
products and services including international banking facilities. It has
already introduced long opening hours as well as weekend opening for selected
branches which has forced some of the other banks to do the same. Seylan had
no involvement in the leasing market at the end of 1991 nor did it have any
sizeable involvement in the term lending under donor supported finance
schemes. Its involvement in the securities markets was also very small. The
bank has an aggressive and forward looking marketing and senior management
team, but it suffers noticeably from the lack of automation, systems and good
quality support staff. Seylan has the potential to increase its market role,
profile and profitability in all of its markets if it can resolve issues



- 64 -
AuM 6
Paso 9 of 10
relating to its under capitalizstion and attend to the urgent need to lmprove
its manpower resource., system. and procedures.



- 65 -
A S    6
Page 10 of 10
RE-U _ ZD21
19=  a11nK;       A 11      SAT        R
No. Of got                                      m"     us    1,432      1.5        616      W4
E fiNACIAL flown
TOta AISO  (ft 0144in                     5IM   6$7    9VIM          9.*9      4.428   5,479
Paid Up Capital (fst  illio)                    UV      0      10         40       354      200
aNer"dedrs Furm% (Re m11iUio)                  93   I'm6       715       "5a       434      26
Net Profit Afte Tat (Rt IlUm)                  am     80       to        137        40       55
MD BALANC 86? RATIO
PA Mwmes ofSlto                               NA    N.A     90.5        5        76.2     5.2
AS   of Totlt AOt
Liqd_d Masts*4.7    4.2    10.                                       a.0       2742    3L
11-0s0t  -r l                               7.0    4.6      9.8       0.7       0.2     6S
Blie & Loam Potfottlo                      W.0   94.8    77.3        69.0      63.0    48.9
Oeposits                                    l.A    .A    72.4        12.7      73.9    65.5
As Z of Lowe Prtfolio
Low LuL    Res-                             2.2    9.1      3.8       3.1       3.3     1.1
tOM L_s                                    91.5   73.0    54.1       39.3      63.4    29.0
S1tis Portfolo                              2.2    0.0    18.0       2.?       10.2    14.
UV POUITOLStTt At1OS
Net tremdiotlon Nwain                         4.3    5.4      6.        5.8       8.7     9.1
Iatrsut C st Of d "site                      NA    N.A       9.3       7.9       6.4      7.9
Iaet  I_a an LOOPS                          12.7   13.5    164         15.6     17.5    16*.6
.t. of lvldu - 199t                          32 .    45     25.0       40.0       5.0    12.0
Olwdu Cove                                    4.8    9.3      5.7       5.7       2.3     2.3
As  d Of Total AS"s
P-M _ lCGM"                                 0.8    0.6     1.7        1.8       1.5     1.2
tot cps ertfwn _EP_mo                       1.8    1.0      3.9       3.9       6.1     3.1
Not Prft Aftr Tax                           5.3    3.6      1.5       1.4       0.9     1.0
Not Aft TaXt Poft as  oft
faid Up CPital                            156    41.7    14.4       2.2        11.6    27.8
_kabeldors Ftda                            3.6   13.2    20.0        24.6       9.4    19.6
CAPITAL ADUUMLTRATIOS (n
Ti-I                                          8.    24.6     6.        6.2       6.0    S.5a
Tier-2                                      Z.6 3A    3      11.2      10.1       7.7     6.5
WTAL CA$ GUCTlN RATINO () 
Pruuipst 0dy                                 3.1   .9       82.2    58.111       90.0    93.3
Ptrispe a Interst                           80.9   80.5    60.4        76.0      89.5    93.8
pal to ImMIO an (o
portfolio Aff_sl by Arrm                     17.1   11.1    10.7        9.5      1L       0.9
AtRR aSSKIMOs  U?8                             5.3    3.6      1.5       1.4       0.9      1.0
AUn  TAOt UX 3 MM     uAu    ROD 2R3                  13.2    20.0       24        9.4    19.6
lOsetiT RTAO                                 3.a1  2.5t1    lt6         1.2:1     0.1:1   0.6t:
OmS  SCIRIC  RI                                2.     2.7      1.3       1.6       9.9      2.4
OTI IMY DATA
mi mtValw pers eO( R)                         100    100      10         10       10       I0
EarninP per heo (R)                          179     84       14        22         1        3
BookValueperl herperst  )                     5.5    3.1     7.2       9.3        1.2     1.4
Total MAsts pr        * pen (s '0003       2192  36,18     6,         502       7,188   6.901
Altr t trofit w  UpLee_ (Is $0001                  1t3,      10,        73        6$       70
Poscel Costs pwr l}      tus 2O)             la              113        97        109      so
fta for Dam relat  to its flimi  wr            N ah 31 1992.
fi  aeSes I  _  s* _apiste adeu  or      dm13 IIS "a    8.12 SW 10.75 for tie-I ud
tiar-2, respatiwely.
1W        m*, ,*'s  italt a__iy raties far t. 1992, alaAatsd on Me bass of cemeidtu  esuts
ifwiaW  1C tl _        ll*ll - IlNa   tof ties We  4.5 ad 1.  fo tieri auldteZ. ruIptIWly.
I/ latli Ust_Ua    's totwal        ceesZtm ratios for d_  1992 We, for prlipl wly 57.42  d tr
prinspsad I 1st a- .95L



- 66 -
ANNE 7
Paig 1 of 6
SRI UA
PRIVATE FIARCE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (PMDP)
RESTRUCTURING OF STATE-OWNED COMMERCIAL BANKS
1.          Introductiou.  A recently completed external audit of the
financial condition of the People's Bank (PB) and Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
revealed that both institutions have incurred large operating losses and, as
of December 31, 1990, were technically bankrupt. These banks control about 60
percent of Sri Lanka's banking sector loan and advance. Because of high
operation costs, combined vith their large market share, they have also
encouraged the remaining institutions to engage in high interest margin
lending, thus raising the interest costs for all Sri Lankan businesses.
Moreover, PB and BOC advanced large sums of money to a number of state-owned
businesses which have defaulted on their loans. The banks, in effect, are
being used to funnel off-budget subsidies to the non-commercial sectors of the
economy.
2.          Private sector ownership, combined with professional management
and a commercial focus, would be the most effective way for addressing these
problems. The GOSL, however, has been slow to embrace this strategy, citing
political constraints to privatization. Meanwhile, a number of interim
measures have been proposed to move these banks towards commercialization
which are discussed below.
3.          Institutionalization of Internationally Acceitable Audits and Loan
Loss Provisionint. To ensure meaningful economic and financial analysis and
reporting of their operations, both banks should be subject to publicly
disclosed annual audits and quarterly reviews, conducted under internationally
acceptable Auditing Standards by reputable private auditors. Investment, loan
classification and loan loss provisioning to cover their known and foreseeable
losses on troubled assets should be carried out in accordance with
internationally acceptable practices.
4.          Profit Objectives.  Once the banks are properly recapitalized,
both banks should be required to move rapidly toward achieving profit margins
comparable to their private sector counterparts. As an interim goal, both
banks should be responsible for generating pre-tax profits no later than six
months after recapitalization. At the end of their first fiscal year after
recapitalization, they should yield a return on assets (ROA) of at least 50
percent of the average ROA of the private domestic commercial banks (PDBs).
Their ROA should increase to match the ROA reported by the PDBs by the end of
the second fiscal year.
5.          In their corporate strategy plan submitted to the GOSL, the SCBs
should outline interim quarterly profitability targets and their strategy to



- 67 -
AME  7
Page 2 of 6
ultimately reach or exceed the end-of-fiscal year targets outlined above. In
computing the profits for the SCBes, earnings from the bonds used to augment
the SCBe' capital base from zero to internationally acceptable levels (8
percent of risk adjusted assets) should be excluded. Should any quarterly
targets for profits or average return on assets be missed (using
internationally acceptable standards), the respective bank must reduce its
assets to meet the target. The GOSL should replace the top management of the
respective bank for failing to meet the agreed targets to provide the
requisite credibility to the commercialization exercise.
PROPOSED TERMS OF AGREMEMNT BeTNW  THE GOSL
AND THE STATE-OWNED COa(ERCI[AL BANKS
SECTION I
Terms Aareed to by the GOSL
Recalitalizing the State-Owned Commercial Banks (SCBs) and Providina Comilete
Operatint Autonomy
6.   The GOSL will issue long-term Government bonds to recapitalize the two
SCBs to ensure their capital base is at least 8 percent of their risk-
adjusted assets, in compliance with the capital adequacy requirements
stipulated by the Basle Coamittee Accords. The bonds would have a 30-
year term and be non-transferable to ensure that the monetary impact is
sterilized, except for the interest payments. The value of the bonds to
be issued, based on the international audit of the 1991 accounts of the
two Banks will be Rs. 13p5?7 billion in the case of the Bank of Ceylon
and Rs. 10,541 billion in the case of the People's Bank. The bonds
would carry interest at 12 percent per annum, payable semi-annually.
7.    The GOSL will amend the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance and the People's Bank
Act to enable the SCBs to function as autonomous commercial
organizations, on the same terms and conditions as the private
commercial banks in Sri Lanka. The GOSL will also provide freedom to
the SCBs to establish salary/compensation policies, performance based
bonuses, staffing at all levels and all other human resource decisions.
8.   The GOSL will not intervene in the daily operations of the SCBs, thus
granting complete autonomy and independence to ensure commercial focus.
In cases where the GOSL requires the SCBs to grant any loan which would
not normally be granted on the basis of purely commercial criteria, GOSL
will provide a time-bound written guarantee for the amount of the
provisioning which has to be made in respect of the loan in terms of the
Central Bank guidelines on loan-loss provisioning. Where there is a
cost to the Bank of such non-commercial lending (e.g., where the lending
is at a lower rate of interest than would be normally applicable), GOSL
would provide the Banks with an appropriate subsidy. GOSL would also



- 68 -
AUU 7
Page 3 of ,
make payment for any non-comercial activities which the Banks undertae
on behalf of the Goermnt (e.g, paymet of teachere'  alarie and
pensions). In the event of theo Gvoermt not paying literest In repect
of any loan guaranteed by Goverment i ch is in default, the Bank
concerned ould be entitled to deduct such interest from any amount due
from them to the Government.
Dealina with xistina "Bad" Loao
9.   The GOSL will establish a mechanism and procedures for dealing with the
existing troubled assets. This may lnclude the establishment of a
separate restructuring and collection agency (BACA). Details of the
troubled assets are outlined In the 1991 International audit.
Reconstitutina Board of Directors
10. The GOSL will reconstitute the Board of Directors consistent with the
expected role of the SCBs by appointing tbree new Board members who will
be persons with appropriate professional qualifications or persons with
extensive managerial experience In larger co.mercial enterprises. The
selection of these ane directors will be from both the public and
private sector, and bssed on their background and professional
experience.
11.  The General Manager will have the right to be present and participate at
all Board meetings. The Board of the bank will not take any decision on
financial facilities granted by the bank vithout cousidering the written
recomiendation of the Genoral Manager, which must be provided for all
such matters. In case where the Board decides to over-ride the
recommendation of the General Manager, the reasons for doing so will be
documented In the minutes of the Board meeting.
Monitorina of the Operations of the lan
12.  The Conittee on Pinancial Sector Reformes  ould monitor the operations
of the SCB. and advise the GOSL on the progres of the restructuring sad
comercialization efforts. The Committe will, with  sstane-sce from
independent auditors, conduct quarterly reviews to asses progress
toward meeting profit targets.
Terms Are_et to by the Bank of Ceylon and tbe PeoDules Rank
Conductint Annual Internationally Acceotable Audits
13.  The SCIs will be subject to publicly disclosed annual audits by
reputable private auditors. The udilts wtil conform to International
accounting and auditing standards and will enoui that sufficient loan
loss provisions are made to cover their kown and foreseeable losses oan



_ 69 -
ANX 7
Pag. 4 of 6
troubled  ssets. In addition, the 8CB will ensure that brach level
budgeting asnd accounting re adopted, and book specific provisions ou
the books of each branch.
Prevarin  MNaemt Actio  Plan  (IMPS)
14.  Prior to recapitalization, the SCBe wIll present to the GOSL a plan
outlining both medium- and loWg-term corporate atrategy. The MAPS will
include inter alias (1) the quarterly Interim targets and how they will
be achieved; (Ii) steps to improve manpower utilization; (III) branch
rationalization; (iv) the establishenbt of clear business goal.; and (v)
performance improvemet measures   The NAPS will ensure that the total
number of branches wil not exceed the December 1991 level. (specific
new branches for whlch Moetary Board approvals had been granted before
February 28, 1993 will be excepted). If possible, they should also
provide  an nitial list of possiblo bracb closure, based on duplicative
rural branches  If the 8CBs require assistance In developing the MAPS,
GOSL wil request IDA for technicl assistsace.
Imorovin Credit Standards and Manatement Reportitn
15.  The 8C.s will apply rigorous credit standards for all future loans, and
ensure that the procedures stipulated in the credit manual are strictly
observed. They will develop credit systems and set up appropriate
institutional arrangc nts to ensure efficient monitoring of the
approvwl9 disburseseat and recovery of all loans   If further assistance
is required, GOSL will request IDA for teebnical assistance.
160 At the end of each quarter, the SCB8 will provide detailed management
reports disclosing details of new loans approved, rescheduled loans,
loan classificatio, specific provisions provided against possible bad
debts, and legal actions taken or planned against defaulters. If in the
implementation of thebs planning and performance management systems,
help is required, GCOL will request IDA for technical assistance.
Reducing Emolovee Related Cost
17.  A significant component of the high Intermediation costs are the
administrative costs. In order to reduce these costs, the SCBs will
enforce a hiring freeze for all positions, except for specified skill
positions approved by the Board. However, the total strength of all
staff in each 5CB will not exceed the December 1991 levels.  In
addition, the SCBs will prepare a feasible plan Indicating the phased
manner In whicb the staff expenses to total assets ratio will match
tkese of the private domestic commercial banks (PDBs) withn 3 years.
Staff expense include all employee related costs including each SCB'.
contribution to the employee pension plans. The plan will Include bi-
annual interim tatgats.



- 70 -
AM=E 7
Page 5 of 6
18. The SCBs will initiate a study of their pension plans with a view to
making them viable and affordable. The recomendations of this study
must be implemented within a year of recapitalization. The contractual
retirement age must be enforced for all employees, and exceptions must
be made only for specified skill position with approval from the Board.
Re2avMents to G08L
19.  The GOSL reserves the option of allowing the SCBs to retain any level of
profits after tax. All profits after deduction of tax, loan lose
provisions and any such portion for reserves, if any, as the GOSL shall
determine will be issued as dividends to GOSL at the end of each fiscal
year.
Achievint AUreed Profitability Targets
20.   The 8CBs will generate profit which will be comparable to the profit
levels of private commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka. As an
interim goal, both Banks will be required to generate pre-tax profits
not later than six months after recapitalization. At the end of their
first fiscal year after recapitalization, they will yield a return on
assets (ROA) of at least 50 percent of the average kOA of the private
domestic commercial banks (PDBs). Their RQA should increase to match
the RQA reported by the PDBs by the end of the second fiscal year. In
their corporate strategy plan submitted by GOSL, the SCBE will outline
interim quarterly profitability targets to ultimately reach or exceed
the end-of-fiscal year targets outlined above. In computing the profits
as a percentage of the assets of the SCBs, earnings from the bonds used
to augment the 8CB's capital base from zero to internationally
acceptable levels (8 percent of risk adjusted assets) and the capital
value of these assets, will be excluded. The GOSL retains the option of
requesting the independent auditors to reconfirm the quarterly results.
21.   If any of the quarterly targets as identified in the MAPS for profits or
average return on assets remain unfulfilled at either Bank, the
respective Bank will take the necessary steps to reduce its costs and/or
reduce its assets through sale or termination of selected operation so
as to reach the specified targets. The closure of selected operations
will be identified based on branch level budgeting, interest
accrual/suspense accounting, profitability, and other considerations.
Redemption of the Recavitalization Bonds
22.   The Secretary to the Treasury will determine in consultation with the
Banks, what part (if any) of the profits of the Bank to be paid to the
GOSL as dividends may be retained by the Bank and an equivalent amount
of the recapitalization bonds canceled in lieu. No part of the profit
could be retained by the Bank in lieu of cancellation of an equivalent
amount of recapitalization bonds unless the tax and dividends paid Is at



- 71 -
ARM  7
Page 6 of 6
least equal to the interest on the bonds Issued by GOSL for the
recapitalization of the SCBs.
SECTION III
23.   In case profit targets fixed are not fulfilled by the end of each fiscal
year, the Board of Directors agreee to submit their resignations to SOSL
within one month of the dieclosure of the results.



- 72 -
AM=Y 8
PRIVATE FINAN V UOPHEn nRE   (MP)
CONPOSITION 07 TES FIONCIAL AIAD RAM=ING lInTLMJTIOIS
Instituticns                       Total Asset.                  Total Assets
(as of 12/31180)             (as of 12131191)
ik VA  I         la no        I
Banking Sector                   49,433     73.1             251,196      60.6
Central Bank                   22,832     33.8             95,835       23.1
Commercial Banks               26,601     39.3             155,361      37.5
state Banks                 20,244      29.9            100,582       24.3
Private Banks             L  6,357       9.4             54,779       13.2
Deposit Taking Inst.s             6,300      9.3              45,934      11.1
ISI                           ' 5,329      7.9             30,081        7.3
Finance Companies                 636      0.9               9,862       2.4
Rural Banks                       335      0.5               4,572       1.1
33DBs                                       --               1,419       0.3
Long-Term Lendtng Inst.             405      0.6              13,882       3.3
Dev. Fin. lust.:                  278      0.4           -  0,688        2.6
DFCC                            278      0.4              3,701        0.9
IDB                                                       6,987        1.7
smIB                              127      0.2              3,194        0.8
Contractual Savings Inst.         7,711     11.4             61,191       14.8
Insurance Inst.                 2,660      3.9              6,056        1.5
State Corporations           2,660       3.9              5,154        1.2
Private Ins. Companies           --       --                 902       0.2
spF                             5,051      7.5              49,174      11.9
ETF                                --       --              5,961        1.4
Specialized Financial Inst.       3,796      5.6              42,283      10.2
FCBUs                           3,796      5.6              39,365       9.5
Leasing Companies                  --       --               1,028       0.2
Merchant Banks                      -       --               1,212       0.3
TCCs                               --       -                  678       0.2
TOTAL                          67,645    100.0            414,486      100.0



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 12
PRIVATZ FINUC  DEVELOPEN  PROJECT (PP
mMao,,oL CO
Environmental Concerns
1.   According to OD 4.01, gavironmental Assessment, the proposed project io
a category "Bn. some subprojects to be financed through tho loan would
require environmental treatment. For this reason, the environmental policy
and legislative environment in Sri Lanka has been reviewed. In addition, the
capacity of PCIs has been evaluated.
2.   The GOSL has made considerable progress towards the implementation of
legislation and activities to protect the onvironment. For the proposed
project it is important to note that under the Environmental Protection
License Scheme (EPLS) any polluting industry requires a license (see para. 4).
In addition it is epected that before this project is effective, the GOSL
will have passed legislation, acceptable to IDA, regarding the Environmental
Assessment procedures (see par.. 10). The legislation will require that any
major project i4 subject to Environmental Assessment Review.
3.   The GOSL has also been active in the International field of
environmental protection. Among others, it has signed the Vienna Convention
of 1985 and CITES, lodged the proposal to ratify the Bs!a-s Convention and
underwritten the Montreal protocol.
EXISTING ENVIRONMWNTAL LEGISLATION AND ADMINISIRATIVE  RNWK IN SRI LANKA
4.    Sri Lanka, when compared to othor countries in the region, has an
outstanding record in environmental protection. Early legislation was
provided in the Urban Development Act (UDA) of 1979, and in the Greater
Colombo Economic Commission Act of 1978. The National Environmental Act of
1980 established the Central Environmental Authority (CE) in 1981 as a policy
making and coordinating body. The 1988 Amendments to the Act travnformed the
CMA into an enforcement agency. The first regulations derived from this Act,
(the EPLS), to control the discharge of pollution from stationary sources were
enacted in February 1990 and came into force in July 1990. The Cabinet
Ministry of Environment and Parliamentary Affairs was created in March 1990
and at the same time a subject-specific Ministry for Environment wa also
established.
S.    The Board of Investment-formerly known as the Greater Colombo Economic
Commission (GCEC)-and the tDA also wield enforcement powers to curb
onvironmental degradation in the Colombo metropolis. The environmental
quality standards framed In 1978 by the OCEC are the forerunners to the



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 12
present National Standards listed in the recent regulations. Municipality by-
laws too are used to a limited extent to prosecute nuisance-related offenses.
6.    The GOSL in 1991 established the National Environmental Steering
Committee (UESC). This Inter-Ministerial Committee consists of policy-makers
of key development sectors and is headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Policy
Planning and Implementation. UESC provides policy guidance and direction for
several environmental initiatives including the Metropolitan Environmental
Improvement Program (MEIP; see para.. 7). The NESC has already established the
MElP Technical Working Group (MEXY-TWG) under the leadership of the CIA
Chairman and is represented bys M2.nistry of Policy Planning aud
Implementation, Ministry of Transport and Highways, Ministry of Industries,
Science and Technology, Ministry of Environment and Parliamentary Affairs,
UDA, GCEC, Colombo Municipal Council, National Building Research Organization,
Urban Program Unit, National Housing Development Authority and the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board. The TWG thus consists of an array of
institutions ranging from urban planning, municipal management to pollution
control. Other relevant agencies will be included as and when required.
Metropolitan Environmental Imirovement Pronram
7.   The HEIP is a UNDP-funded, World Bank executed initiative to incorporate
environmental perspectives in the development strategies of the
urban/lindustrial sector of Asian countries. The basic objective of the
program is to focus attention on the need for developing more attractive,
efficient and stable urban environments in Asia and attempt to slow and, if
possible, reverse the process of industrial pollution and neglect of the
environmental context within which economic development takes place.
8.   The Program assists participating country governments and municipal
authorities in developing cost effective Metropolitan Environmental Action
Plans, wbich would provide the framework and guidance for sectoral and
sub-sectoral investments for environmentally sustainable inaustrial and urban
development. The Program will assist the participating countries In
strengthening their pollution control and enviromental planning and
monitoring agencies, prioritize investment decisions, mobilize the technical
and financial resources needed to Implement the plans and involve the private
sector and nongoveranmental organizations in the overall effort for better
environmental management.
9.   In Colombo, HEIP functions under the Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation and in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment and
Parliamentary Affairs.  The Program is managed and directed by the Office of
the National Program Coordinator.
The GOSL's Environmental Mananement Strategy (EMS) and Action Plan for Greater
Colombo Metropolis
10.  A study, financed by TA funds from MEIP and bilateral donor support,



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 12
("Environmental Management Strategy and Action Plan for Greater Colombo
Metropolis"') evaluating existing environmental standards is expected to be
completed before project effectiveness. The study vill integrate available
strategy documents compiled by the ('OSL (e.g.,, National Conservation Strategy
and its Action Plan, Urban Sector Profile, Transport Sector Study and Policy,
New Industrialization Strategy, Environmental Action Plan, OCEC Negombo Lagoon
Master Plan) and studies prepared through bi-lateral donor support, among
others those of NAREPP and the CON. The study's objectives ares
(a) to define priority problems for environmental management in terms of
present and projected degradation of vater, air and land;
(b) to describe the present and projected costs of environmental
degradation, to the extent possible, in quantitative, preferably
economic terms for each medium;
(c) to assist the GOSL in selecting a realistic set of environmental quality
targets for water and land, described in terms of benefits and costs;
(d) to formulate least-cost management strategy leading to prevention of
further natural resource degradation and a beneficial reduction in
present air, water and land pollution;
(e) to develop an action plan to carry out the strategy, including: (i)
specific guidance to sectoral agencies; (ii) inputs to CMP and the
Colombo City Development Plan; (iii) strengthening the pollution control
plans and measures relating to the Environmental Protection Licensing
Scheme; (iv) guidance to Provincial Councils, Municipal Councils and
Urban Councils regarding environment management functions needed at
peovincial level and local level administration;
(f) to define institutional arrangements and necessary strengthening
measures (staffing, training, etc.) for Action plan implementation at
all levels of government, with emphasis on provincial and local
agencies;
(g) to estimate the benefits and costs of plan implementation; and
(h) to define any additional studies needed.
Environmental Protection License Scheme (EPLS)
11.   The Environmental Protection License Scheme promulgated in July 1990 is
the first regulatory instrument derived from the 1988 amended National
Environmental Act to control the discharge of pollutants into the environment.
Existing and proposed industries with potential for pollution are also
/ Detailed Terms of References for this study are in the project files.



- 76 -
ANMEX 9
Page 4 of 12
required to obtain the EPL prior to commencement of operatione. Around 350
Industries received licenses during the first year of Implementation of this
scheme. The EPL regulations also specify concentration specific discharge
standards for all industrios.
anzs"= Mo2mdaM s
12.  The procedure to obtain an EL for existing and new ndustries as
prescribed in the guidelines issued by the CRA is outlined below:
12.1     Ixistmnt   Industries
(a)         Complete and submit the application form to the CIA or the
relevant local authority;
(b)         Upon receipt, the CZA will classify the industry/activity on
the basis of the nature and extent of pollution which could
arise from Its operation;
(c)         CIA will administer the EPL scheme for high polluting
industries, %vhile the medium and low polluting industries it
will be handled by the local authority;
(d)         CIA inopects the industry and aakes a scientific assessment
of the pollutants being discharged/deposited and associated
environmental impact that has arisen as a consequence of its
operationg and
(e)         upon such assessment, if the CIA is satisfied that the
operation of the industry is being conducted In accordance
with the proscribed standards and criteria, then it issues
an 2L. The annual fee for the license is R. 750. If the
CIA is not satisfied, It will enter into a time bound
program with the industry to reduce pollution to the
required norms.
12.2   NRw Industries
(a)         Complete and submit the application form to the CIA or the
relevant local authorityg
(b)         CEA will Inspect the proposed site to assess Its
suitability. If the CIA is satisfied with the site it will
grant approavl with conditions that need to be adhered to
during the implementation of the project; and
(c)         one month prior to the commencement of commercial
operations, the CEA, on the request of the developer, will
inspect the industry to examine whether the project



- 77 -
ANhX 9
Pasg 5 of 12
development conditions have been implemented. If satisfied
the CIA will issue the EPL.
13.  The CIA issued 14 Industrial sub-sectoral pollution control guidelines,
when Introducing the lL schem. These guidelines have been recently reviewed
by a IDA/CON assisted effort (see next para.).
14. CIA recently with the sslstance of the WOM has developed pollution
control guidelines for eight (saom of the earlier mentioned 14 have been
revised) Industrial sub-sectors -- natural rubber, latex processing,
desiccated coconut, leather, dairy, textile processing, pesticide formulation
and metal finishing. The coverage of the guidelines Include in-plant control
measures, end-of-the-pipe treatment methods and the recommended discharge and
emission standards. Another output of the CON Assistance is the formulation
of draft ambient air and water quality standards.
15. The recently published National Environmental Action Plan (SEAP) 1992-
96, considers the following as important areas which require immediate
attentions
(a) Tools for environmentally-sensitive industrial siting;
(b) Economic Instruments for industrial pollulAon management;
(c) Waste abatement expertise and facilities; and
Cd) Eavironmental quality monitoritg and related pollution lesues.
16.  The regulatory aeasures introduced for pollution control have not been
camplemented by the availability of economic instruments - charges, subsidies
and incentives. The non-availability of such instruments has so far severely
restricted the implementation of the IPL scheme.
Eavironmental Imnact Assessment ReoIgred of New Prosects
17. Environmental Impact Assessment (ZIA) was Virst made mandatory for
development projects In 1984 by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. The
amendment to the ML In 1988, gave broader statutory effect to this decision
and required opportunity for public review of and comment on elAs. The
regulations for the application of tIA In development project plannin has
been formulated and will become effective later this year. The regulation has
identified a range of industrial, mining, construction and resort development
activities as prescribed projects requiring to submit Initial Environmental
Examination or EIA reports as per the procedure specified. Small scale
industrial projects have been excluded from the purview of this procedure.
Such projects are to be assessed either through the IPL scheme or the Planning
and Building Requirements of the UD. Nowever Medium to high polluting
projects located in defined "sensitlve' areas are included.
18. The NBRO developed an Enwironmental Assessment Procedure and Manual for
the use of the UDA and the Urban Local Authorities (ULA) In 1988. The
coverage of the manual Included ldustrial and infrastructural projects and



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 12
was to be used In conjunction with the Planning and Building Requirements. A
step-by-step procedure wa developed for industrial projects, begimning with a
claosification of Industries into light, moderate and heavy polluters, and
giving the guidelines and checklists for siting. The mnuial provides
information on legal and technical measures to aid decision-making. The
procedure also specifies the level of decision-making for different categories
of proj ct., with the heavy polluting category requiring CUA clearance.
Additional environmental guidelines for Infrastructure projects have also been
defined. This manual finds limited use as training of the staff at the ULAs
in the application of the procedure was not effective, however the UDA uses
the manual as a guideline. In order to correct this situation broader ZIA
guidelines will be developed with the assistance of the USAID NAREP project.
19.  HEIP recently developed an outline approach for the environmental
assessment of new industrial projects combining the three planning tools -
EPLS, PB requirements and the proposed LIA regulations. The concept of this
approach is derived from the NBRO manual and defines the use of the above
planning tools In the assessment of both polluting and non-polluting
industries. This plan has been endorsed by the Environment Committee of the
Industrialization Commission and subsequently approved as the Scheme for the
Control of Pollution from Existing Industries (SCOPE) at a forum consisting of
NESC member institutions, Industrialists and environmental NGOs In October
1992.
Lo¢al InstitutIonal Canacitv for Environmental Imnact Asessment
20.   While Sri Lanka has an actlve environmental NGO commnity, such as the
local affiliate of the World Wild Life Fund, the Environmental Foundstion, the
Sri Lanka Environment Congress, the Save the Trees Foundation, the Sri Lanka
Working Journalist Environmental Forum end the Environment Forum, the profit
oriented private sector has not yet entered the market for technical
assistance to local industry. Universities have a limited capacity for
research end development in environmental aspects, mainly due to lack of
funds. Although some local firms have administered environmental assessments,
in particular in the rubber, textile and coconut fibre subsectors, they worked
mostly with international experts. The USAID funded RAREP project is
currently providing substantial training In Sri Lanka for university and
private sector personnel to upgrade local capacity in BIAs. This project will
establish a mechanism for private consulting firms to enter this market.
Pollution Testina Laboratories
21.  The laboratories of CEA, NBRO, CISIR, lARk, WS&DB, GcEC, Division of
Occupational Health and Universities of Colombo, Moratuwa and Kelaniya offer a
range of pollution testing and monitoring facilities. In addition there are a
few privately owned laboratories which also undertake testing work. The CIA
has twice conducted inter-laboratory standardization among these laboratories.
The CIA envisages to upgrade this to a reliable Labo:atory Accreditation
Scheme. This will enable the CEA to delegate Its testing functions to



- 79 -
AMEN 9
Page 7 of 12
accredited laboratories, although the nature and extent of monitoring by CZA,
and its delegation to others has not yet been clearly established. These
laboratories employ manual to semi-automatic techniques to analyze industrial
effluents. The need for strengthening these laboratories and establiohing
effective, uniform testing protocols and procedures, is urgent. In addition
to this component IDA through S14-IV and the Japan Grant Facility is providing
air and water pollution testing equipment to NBRO and CISIR respectively.
Cagacitv of inancial Intermediaries
22. Under existing IDA projects (SKI-11 and IV), progress has been made to
increase the capacity of PCIs to deal vith environmental concerns. As part of
becoming PCIa, all participating PCIs will have had the opportunity to train
staff members in the existing environmental procedures and regulations and in
screening subprojects, developing TORe for assessments, and in reviewing
assessments. TA provided in this project will also provide for training in
monitoring the implementation of assessment recommendations.
SECTION II
ENVTRONHENTAL COMPONENT OF PROPOSED PROJECT
The Pollution Control anLd Abatement Fund - Conceot. Objective and Scone
23. The creation of a Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAJ) aims at
waste minimization, resource recovery and pollution abatement in new and
existing enterprises. The legal framework is provided through licensing
regulations issued by CIA and prepared, among others, by the Committee on the
Environment of the National Industrialization Commission and NESC. Current
standards will form the basis for this project. All industries are required
to conform to the nw standards within 5 years of approval of this Scheme.
Industries will be required to submit their plans of waste treatment and
pollution abatement within 2 years of commencement of the scheme. Each plan
will identify: pollution concentration, waste load, waste streams, treatment
plant requirements with local and foreign currency cost, mode of financing,
schedule of implementation and performance guarantee.
24. The PCAP consists of a TA Component of US$1.25 million and a credit
component of US$3.75 million. Fund from CON will be made available on a non-
reimbursable basis to the GOSL. The TA component consists of training for
staff of PCIo and some lndustries, TA to CEA to establish and maintain a
system of accrediting local environmental consulting firms, development of
standard TORs for Environmental Assessment Reviews (EARs) of enterprises in 9
to 10 sectors, and direct technical assistance to enterprises to cover the
cost of an EAR with detailed recommendations and specifications of
requirements for the enterprise to comply with CEA standards. Existing
enterprises will be entitled to reimbursement of up to 75 percent of the cost,
(subject to a maxmw- of US$10,000), while new enterprises will be entitled to
reimbursement of up to 50 percent of the cost (subject to a maximum of



- so -
ANNXE 9
Page 8 of 12
US$10,000). In addition, TA for monitoring, training and limited R&D
activities will be available from the proceeds of the interest payments from
the PCIs to the Fund. The credit component consists of a credit fund of
US$3.75 million. Existing enterprises can receive credit from the fund at an
interest rate equal to the official rate of inflation (currently 11 percent),
for capital investments. The credit can be extended for a maximum period of S
years inclasive of a maximum grace period of 6 months. The maximum amount of
credit to be extended for each enterprise unit is US$50,000. The interest
rate will be determined at the time of the first disbursement for a subloan
and will be based on the latest published official ra:e of inflation. The
zero real rate is proposed as the interest rate, to balance the need not to
lend on negative real rates of interest and to provide an Incentive to
existing industry to comply with environmental standards. In most cases the
needed improvements will not lead to increased productivity at the firm level,
yet the economic opportunity cost of not making the required adjustments would
be significantly higher than the economic costs incurred as a result of the
distortions which will occur due to the provision of financing at lower than
market rates.
Demand
25.  In 1989 CEA conducted a survey of more than 7,600 industrial
establishments. Of these 4,606 were found to be polluting industries with 291
high pollutants, 1,900 medium pollutants and 2,415 low pollutants. In 1991,
NDB surveyed out of the 291 high polluting industries those located in the
Colombo and Gampaha districts". Of the 119 industries, only 20 had decreased
their polluting level and/or obtained CFIA licenses. Of the remaining 99, 65
percent indicated that they would want to obtain licenses or reduce levels but
had not done so due to lack of funds for TA and/or purchase of equipment.
According to estimates from rudimentary data based on the costs of
improvements to comply with existing standards at the time of data collection
(the first half year of 1992), the total financial requirement in Sri Lanka to
bring existing industries to acceptable effluent standards would be Rs 2,500
million (US$54 million) based on an average of Rs 2 million (US$43,480) for
high polluting industries and Rs 1.5 million (US$32,610) for medium polluting
industries'.
Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
26.   The estimated nost to upgrade the existing industry to acceptable
pollution standards is US$54 million. The PCAP would provide an initial
US$3.75 million.
I/ Available In project ft*..
3/ Data submitted to the Committee on the Emilnweent of the National   Industrialization CommIssfon In
their meetino of June 1992.



- 81 -
AEW= 9
Page 9 of 12
Istimated Costs
Local  Porelt   Total         &oc91   Poroltns   Icta
-----(Re Million)------       ------ (US$ Million)----
Subproject                   -       172     172           -      3.75    3.75
Technieal Assistance       166               Zu          iA        1 25    4.85
166      230      396         3.6      5.00    8.60
aOm                          -       230     230           -        5.0     5.0
Interest Earnings'
166         -     166         3.6         -     3.6
166       230     396         3.6       5.0     8.6
Ou the bais of an estimatod average  nvoestment of US$30,000 the project can
assist at least 125 enterprises before the Fund is exhausted for the first
round. The TA Component will cover part of the cost of reviews/appraisals for
150 existIng enterprises (average US$5,000) and 100 nw  enterprises (average
US$3,500). In addition it will cover costs for consultancies and upgrading
laboratories. The interest income from the fund will cover the costs for
monitorIng the compliance of the entorprises s vell as provide some funds for
R&D, training and consultancies.
Terms and Conditions
27.         The proposed fund of US$5 million vould be provided by the CON
under a co-financig agreement betwee  the Bank and GON, to the GOSL. The
GOSL would on-lend US$3 75 milion to qualified PCIs against a base rate of
zero percent real Interest rate inus two percent. For the purpose of this
projct, the zero real interest equals the latest official inflation rate as
published by the C8SL at the t$ae of granting of the subloan. The COSL vould
on-lend the funds In Rupees. The CIs would pay Interest to the PCAP on funds
disbursed and outstanding. Repayment to the GOSL for the lending component
would be on the basis of a lump-su payment 15 years after project initiation.
PCIs wil obtain fund from a special project account. Sine the maximum
repaymnt torm for loan undor the fund is five years, with average subloan
commitment of thre  years, Inclusive of a maximum grace period of six months,
PCIs would on-lend the float as soon as possible but not later than three
months after final repayment. Due to differences in maturity and size of the
subloans, PCIs might experience a liquidity "build-up* in the project account.
J/ Dsed en intert naem r wa pasitd of 12 vrm sainst U owet
Us $.75 mllion.



- 82 -
ANUX 9
Page 10 of 12
PCIs would pay an interest equal to the yield of Treasury bills with a
maturity between 180-360 days to the Fund over any amount in the project
account in excess of US$50,000.
28.         The TA Component (administered by the Administrative Unit in NDB)
is comprised of two parts. The first part of US$1.25 million will be passed
on to the end-user as a non-repayable development grant on a cost sharing
basis according to proportions described above. This part covers the cost of
T& to enterprises, consultancies, and upgrading of laboratories. The second
part, the interest income from the fund credit component, estimated to be at
least US$225,000 per year after the third year will be used for monitoring and
R&D.
PCI Qualifications
29.         In order to qualify for participation, PCIs need to have staff, or
access to private consulting firms on a fee basis, who are qualified
environmental experts familiar with existing environmental procedures and
regulations and trained in screening subprojects for compliance with
environmental regulations, developing TORs for environmental assessments, and
in reviewing assessments.
Subiroiect Elitibilitv
30.         Subprojects eligible for financing would involve investments by
enterprises which have been in operation since January 1, 1992 in equipment
and material which will facilitate their compliance with environmental
standards. The maxi4um contribution from IDA/GON sources is US$50,000 per
enterprise. There is no maximum regarding the total investment made by the
enterprise.
31.         Subprojects eligible for technical assistance regarding the
preparation of environmental assessments are all new and existing enterprises
which have applied or are applying for an EPL.
Subproject Financina by PCIs
32.         Credit funds would be on-lent by PCIs to eligible subprojects at
zero real rate of interest. The rate would be determined based on the latest
published inflation rate and remain fixed for the life of the subloan. The
maturity of subloans would be determined by the PCI but would not exceed five
years inclusive of a maximum grace period of six months. Subloans for which
no disbursements have been made for 12 months would be reviewed and when
appropriate, canceled to facilitate full utilization of the Fund.



- 83 -
AM=  9
Page 11 of 12
Repayment Term.
33.         PCIs would repay to the 0OSL any funde borrowed under the lending
component at same rate as the underlyins subloane are due for repayment to the
PCI but no later than 15 years after project initiation, even if results in
one lump-sum payment. Repayment obligation of PCI to the GOSL is independent
of actual repayment from the sub-borrower to the PCI.
Interest Payments to the Fund
34.         The PCIs would pay Interest quarterly to the PCAE on funds
disbursed and outstanding. In addition, PCIs will pay to the fund any
interest earned on funds held by them ln their project account in excess of
US$50,000 on the basis of Treasury bill yi.elds valid at that time.
Technical Assistance fundint
35.         PCI Un2radina/Trainint Programs. Under the ongoing SMI projects,
funds were provided to NDB/PCIs to assist them in buildtng their capability
for project financing through staff training, systems and operations
improvement and subsector analysis. This assistance would continua to be
provided from the interest income of the Fund.
36.         Cons,ultag ces.  In order to strengthen the institutional capacity
of organizations concerned with the formulation and implementation of
environmental legislation, procedures and regulations, a number of
consultancies would be required. Tn particular, the fund would finance a
consultancy to assist CEA establish and maintain a system of accrediting
qualified private consulting firms and to start and maintain a system of
compliance monitoring (at source). The recurrent costs for these programs
will be financed out of the interest income of the PCAF.
37.         Indicative allocation of technical assistance  funds is given in
the table below. Based on an average contribution of US$5,000 for TA to
existing enterprises and US$3,333 for new enterprises approximately 150
existing enterprises and 100 new enterprises will be able to avail themselves
of this TA.
38.         At present, obtaining an IPL is subject to long delays because
laboratory facilities do not have the necessary testing equipment. In order
to expedite this, the project will provide funding (complementing funding from
other sources), to upgrade the laboratories.



- 84 -
AMICK 9
Pago 12 of 12
Technical Agsistan¢e Suvoorted throuah Proposed GON Coa-Fiancig
Expenses In U8$
TA to existing enterprises               750,000
TA to new enterprises                    350,000
Consultancies                             75,000
Upgrading of Laboratories                 75,000
Total                                  1.25s.00
39.         Trainjng.  in the first two years of operation are provided under
the SKI-IV project. This project will complement and continue the funding,
financed from the proceeds of the Interest in4co of the PCAP.
40.        SMbtorin     The Administrative Unit In 3DB will provide
instructions and guidelines to work with the regulatory agencies (In
particular CU), to establish a system of using private consultants to assist
CUA in monitoritg compliance with environuental regulations.
41*         In addition to the specific uses metioned under para. 39 and 40,
the fund would provide financing for additional activities which ala to atta i
the objectives of the PCAP.
The Administrative Agency
42 *DB has been appointed the administrative agency for the PCAW.
They will administer the TA component, and manage the Interest Income from the
outstanding and disbutoed funds.
Donor Coordination
43.         In addition to the IDA supported projects, several bilateral
donors have developed programs In support of the OOL pollution control
programs which deal with TA, training and development of local institutional
capacity that may overlap and duplication could occur. For this reao"n, a
mechanism will be created for frequent but Informal donor coordinating
meetings.
IDA Review and Sunervision
44*        The component will be monitored sa part of noral IDA supervision.
In addition to the normal accounting and auditing requirements of the Project,
missions will from time to time request a local auditing fizu, to audit the
projact accounts of PCIs for this project and on a sample bs4i check approved
loans for compliance with the guidelines of the program.



_ 85 -
ANE  10
Ag. I of 6
PRVAE NAC          OAR=  PROJECT (P70P)
C^MCL A88I8n1C1S
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    M ICUD   CONCEl  CONRTS) AVAILABLE UNDER TIE
PROJECT
Total technacal assisotance available under the project vould amount to
US$10.75 million of which IDA shall provide US$2.5 million, USAID US$7 million
and GON US$1.25 million. The Individual components for which this technical
assistance shall be avallable are shown in the following table.
(US$ '000)
IDA FINANCED TA
A. Institutionl and PglicY DevelonmQnt
Domestic Resouree Mobilisation                    500
Financial Sector leformllestr. State Banko      1,400
Accounting sad I*ditiag                           100
D. *financal Intermediation
PCI Training and Upgrading                        500
Total ID Assistnce                        2,500
USAID FIANC}D TZ
Strengthening Debt Market/Pobt Trade Systems      843
Bond Market Development                           222
Training Bond Market Development                  124
Strengthening Regulatory Framework                547
Develop Portfolio Managemet Capacity              395
Accounting and Auditing                           711
Other Activities                                2,244
Program Management, Audits and Evaluation       1,289
Contingencies (152)                               625
Total USAID Assistace                     7,000
CON FINACED TA
Consultancies to comply with EPL                1,175
Laboratory Equipment                               75
Total 00 Assistanc                        1,250
Grand Total Technical Assitlanc                10,750



- 86 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 6
The technical assistance component under IDA credit is US$2.5 million which
shall be available as unders
US$O0oo
A.  Institutional & Policy Dev.       2.0
B.  Financial Intermediation          0.5
2.5
A.    Institutional ad Policy Develoumets _(USS2.0 Million)
1.          Domestic Resource Mobilization for Term Lendina.  The GOSL I-,tends
to lengthen the maturity structure of its debt instruments. To complete this
process successfully, four TA tasks are necessarys (i) strengthening the
system of issuing the appropriate long term debt instruments, including the
development of a trading and settlement infrastructure; (ii) development and
implementation of a regulatory framework, covering both primary and secondary
markets; (iii) developing portfolio management capacitv of contractual savings
Institutions; and (iv) training program for institutions such as MOP, CBSL,
primary and secondary dealers. Some of the needed sosistance is already
provided under SMI-IV. In addition to TA funds from IDA included in the
proposed Projecto USAID is also providing TA. in a parallel operation. Funding
for strengthening of bank supervision functions, SCB restructuring and
implementation of debt recovery legislation (para 2 below) will be provided
from IDA funds. Other main activities being assisted through the provision of
technical assistance (IDA and USAID) are noted below.
(a) Strengtheninag the System of Issuina the Aouronriate Long-term Debt
Instruments. Includint the Development of a Tradina and Settl  ntm
Infrastru-cture. The rapid development of the stock market over the last two
years necessitates expansion of the computer ¢apacity handlin4; post-trade
transactions, the purchase of an independent back-up processor under control
of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE), and linking brokers and broker/dealers in
a second-tier market, while also linking dealers in government Treasury bills.
The system would provide contract documentation subsequent to the completion
of trades, generate market reports for monitoring and for the public, and
maintains a central depository system (CDS), which facilitates paper-less
trading. The linkages will both Improve the market's ability to process
information and enable speedy execution of trades. The proposed system will
provide additional collective storage facilities and offer composite software
modules which will enable order-taking and recording of trades and will enable
financial intermediaries to operate simultaneously in several of these



- 87 -
ANE  10
Pago 3 of 6
markets. USAID will finance proprietary computer equipment which will enable
an expansion of the current system of 30 on-line terminals with 100 additional
on-line terminals. In addition, US&ID will provide the technical assistance
required to bring the system on-line, and train the personnel who will work
with the system. By the end of the project it is expected that 130
brokersibroker dealers vill be on-line, and that CSE vill have an independent
back-up processor in place for all transactions handle by the exchange.
(b)  Development of Bond Market and Lona-Term Securities.  USAID will
provide the GOSL with assistance to strengthen the secondary market in
Treasury bills now being created by the government. Essentially the project
will develop the PTAICDS computer system to allow issuing of longer term
securities by the GOSL. Issuing of longer term securities through competitive
procedures is an IDA condition of disbursement for this loan. In addition the
project will provide technical assistance to develop the feasibility and
operational guidelines for the bond trading system, to obtain institutional
acceptance for the program and to coordinate these activities with the
development of a second-tier market. The T& will also include extensive
training of the users (both the GOSL and private sector dealers), including a
tour by Central Bank officials to observe regulation and oversight activity in
a developed market which utilizes electronic trading. In addition, IDA will
provide TA for central banking and regulatory expertise, to assist CBSL and
DOP with developing a Treasury bill agenda and long-term money market
planning. At the end of the project, the GOSL expects to carry out all of its
borrowin&s operations through competitive procedures.
(c)  Develoumen and Imlementation of a Regulatory Xram rk. Coverin
Both Primary and Secondary Markets. The Colombo market is regulated by the
Securities and Exchange Comission of Sri Lanka (SEC). Improved regulation is
needed to address a number of imperfections in the present system. A number of
studies' have indicated the need to strengthen regulatious and staff,
especially in the areas of monitoring brokers' capital adequacy and profits,
regulation personnel, conflict of interest, customer fraud, conditions of
sale, credit extension and theft, and employee and agent fidelity. USAID will
finance TA for a securities market regulation specialist for a period of 12
month. In addition, a number of short-term consultancies will be provided for
specialized activities relating to regulations. TA will also be provided to
If International Science and Technology Instftute (IST1):"Joproving Colotmbo Stock Exchenge Regulatiofn,
USAID ColUzbo 1990.
Robert N. Bishop: Consolideted Srf Lanka Securities Regulatito", USAID ColoCbo 1990.
Estella Tang: "The role of Securities Cwmcit in the Regulation of Narket intermediariees USAID
Colotmbo 1990.
Aries/Price Waterhouse: A Study of the Regulation of Securities Narkets in Sri Lanka, Asian
Oevlopment ank. 1991.



- 8a -
ARM  10
Page 4 of 6
finance eight overseas training tours by the regulatory personnel of the CSB
and the SPC. At the end of the project it Is expected that a surveillance
unit of the SEC is fully staffed, trained and functional. Shortcomings iu the
regulations as identified in the referenced studies will have been addressed
and corrected.
(d) Develop Portfollo Manaement Canacilt of Now Pinancial
Institutions and Contractual Savines Ingtitutions. Under this project, with
IDA funds, the contractual savings institutions (EPP, LTP, ISB,ICSL) will
receive TA up to 12 monthe of expatriate consultancies to diversify and manage
their portfolios, including investment In non-governmental longer term
instruments. USAID will finance up to 15 man months of expatriate technical
assistance to a number of private financial institutions such as the National
Asset Management Company (NMML), CRN Fund Management Ltd., mutual funds and
starting venture capital companies. In the case of USAID's assistance,
services are provided on a cost-sharing basis, with a minimum of 10 percent of
the tocal costs of the TA being net by the institution concerned. At the end
of the project, it is expected that 1PF, ITF, USB and IT! would become active
players in the long-term securities market and will manage their investment
portfolios in accordance with their on investment objectives.
(e)   Trainint Programs. Both IDA and USAID  J.1l provide training.  IDA
financed training is a continuation of the tralinig for PCIs in upgrading
their appraisal skills, implementing and utilizing control and magement
information systems, and training In environmental assessment metbodologies.
In addition, USAID will provide funding for a series -of in-country training
seminars for more general skills In portfolio management, such as training for
broker agents and for a mixed group of staff from concerned financial
institutions. The institution will bear 20 percent of the costs of the USAID
sponsored training programs* In order to promote the use and utilization of
the second-tier market, USAID will provide financing for a series of in-
country training programs for the brokers and brokerldealers, and short-term
overseas placement in U.S. institutions for both the players and the
regulators. To develop the financial markets, USAID will also provide funding
for two in-country training feminars in bond trading, additional short-term
courses for portfolio investors to utilize bonds as a part of their portfolio
and financing to facilitate the certification of securities markets
professionals.
(f) Other Activities. USAID will also provide assistance with the
development of a second-tier market in an effort to reduce the costs of entry
and maintenance in the quoted securities market for medium-sized companies.
In implementation, it will initially be set up as an over-the-counter (OTC)
market using brokers and brokeridealers. l addition, USAID identified that
with the rapid growth of the market In recent years, the lack of skilled
professionals in corporate finance has be¢ome a constraint in the development
of the Colombo market.  It will therefore support the introduction of a



- 89 -
AM=  10
Page 5 of 6
professional CPA program to Sri Lsaka and support up to 45 students during the
ilitial two years of the project.
2.          ank  Sunervlsion. Debt Recovery Leaslstion and estructurine of
Stgte-Owned Cogmser¢ll saks. Restructuring and commercialized operations of
the state comercial banks are critical to the efficient and effective
operation of the banking sector in Sri Lanka. Uhile the governgt has been
slow to embrace divestituro as a strategy for addressing the weaknesses in
these institutions in a sustainable manner, a number of tasks alm6d at
fipo ing comercial discipline on these Institutions are being implemented.
Tecbnical assistance fund. from the Project are proposed to assist In several
of tbase key tasks: (1) strengthening credit management; (ii) rationalization
of the branch networks (LIL) vaproving staff utillzation end (iv) conducting
an international comparison of salaries in the banking sector. In addition,
the GOSL and CBSL need  ssistance i strengthening bank supervision function
and in implementing the provisions of the revised dobt recovery legislation.
It is expected that at the end of the project, improved supervision of the
CBSL vould have substantially reduced the risks associated with liberalized
financial markets, the Improvements In debt recovery procedures would have
minlmized the premium desmanid by savers to Invest in debt instrumento and on
of main reasons for high Intermediation costs (unduly bigh administrative
costs of the state owned caemercial banks) would have bea eliaminated.
3.         Account&nM and Auditing. The ICASL has recently adopted all of
the international accounting standards. USAID, will provide assistance to
develop a strategic plan for the institute and for developmental activities in
the areas of standard setting to enable the ICASL to sustain the progress made
so far. The asistance will be provided for a program of loplementing and
monitoring support for a period of 2 year. In addition, through 12 months of
technical ssistance and 2 two-month consultancies, USAID would assist IC&SL
in the development of training program  by developing relevant case studie
materials to be used in post qualifying education seminars, training modules
for students, etc. In addition ICASL, with USAID's assistance, will develop
objective methods of examination settitg and system of periodic review of
syllabi. The ICASL would also be assisted in its efforts to enforce compliance
by establisbing a compliane urit to serve as an advisory body on the
implemetation of standards. The ICABL wvil contribute a minomum of 10
percent toward the cost ascociated with USAID supported TA. IDA, under this
project will provide TA for the institutonal strethening of the ICASL,
establishmeat of Accounting Standards Board by MOI/IeASL and to assit with
the Introduction of malpractice insurance for all practicing accountant. At
the end of the project, It is expected that there would be a methodical and
routine system for updating accounting standards, a functionlng institution.
for dealing with compliance Issues regarding accounting standards, increased
coverage of accounting and auditing standards by extension of accounting
standrds to financials of larger unlisted companies and a system of
malpractice Insurance for practicing accountants.



- 90 -
ANIl 10
Page 6 of 6
3.   linancial !ntermediatio  (US80.3 million)
4.          Assistance to PCIs.  Under the ongoing IDA projects, funds were
provided to assist PCI8 in building their project finance capabilities through
staff training and systems development. This assistance will be continued.
Assistance Is particularly required in the area of HIS development, risk
assessment and pricing of credit. Since this project introduces the us. of
variable Interest rates, training will include the development of mechanisms
for isolating, controlling and pricing of Interest rate risks. Technical
assistance will also be provided for provision of public information on the
benefit/risks of variable vs. fixed interest rates. At the end of the project
PCIs would have improved their MIS and control systems providing their
respective managements with necessary information regarding the functioning of
the banks. In addition, banks will offer clients a range of financing
instruments, appropriately priced, ultimately reducing the cost of financial
intermediation over current levels. IDA technical assistance to the PCIs
under this Project is needed f4r the first two years of Implementation only.



- 91 -
ANNEX It
PAge 1 of 3
SRI JAM
PRIVAE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PMDP)
IERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
T1E FORKATION OF INVESTMENT POLICY AND OPERATING GUIDELINES
FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF INVESTHENT PORTFOLIO
FOR CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS
1.          Most of the Contractual Savings Institutions in Sri Laka :were
established by acts of Parliament and therefore have special rules that govern
their operations. Such rules have generally been modified and amended from
time to tire by directives from the Ministry of Finance or other regulatory
authority, especially the rules relating to investments of their funds. These
institutions routinely invest most of their investable funds in public sector
securities, some issued at below market rates.
2.          The present thinking of the Ministry of Finance on the future
investment activit4-s of contractual savings institutions is that:
(a)   they &nould continue to operate as institutions geared to
fulfilling their declared objectives;
(b)   they stould be a provider of investment funds to the private
sector to the extent consistent with their roles;
(c)   their charter should be amended to give them more autonomy; and
(d)   the institutions should separately develop investment guidelines
and portfolio management skills to better fulfill their
objectives.
Consultant's Profile
3.          The ideal investment consulting firm would have had extensive
exptarience in policy formulation for treasury or investment departments of
large financial institutions such as pension funds, provident funds or
national savings institutions and setting out of operating guidelines for the
relevant investment departments. They would also have successfully managed
investment portfolios of such institutions, showing good performance over a
period of time, and operating under similar constraints which are likely to
exist in Sri Lanka.



- 92 -
AME  11
Page 2 of 3
Consultant js Tms of Reference
PRH%8R I              D %MATMONS FOR DEVELOPING PORTPoLIO MAg AGEMENT
EXPERTISE II CONACTUAL SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS
46          Consultant would be expected to provide advice on the followaing
aspects:
(a)  within the constraints of its charter, the limitations of capital
markets in the country and consensus obtained after detailed
discussions with the relevant departments of the government, the
consultant should be able to set out a clear policy statement on
the objectives of the Pund Management Policy that the board of the
contractual savings institutions should approve and adopt;
(b) within the constraints of Fund Management policy, the consultant
should define the role and the objectives of the investment
department so that the board and the dep&rtment itself clearly
understand what is expected of thea;
Xc) outline the expertise that vould be required in the investment
department for it to fully perform the functions that have been
specified for it. This should include detailed job specifications
for key position.;
(d)  prepare an organization chart showing how the department should be
organized internally and to whom it shou 7 report externally;
(e)  propose the discretionary dealing limits for each of the
traders Investment officers;
(f)   consultant should then be able to recommend a portfolio structure
vhich is commensurate with the stated Investment policy of the
board and is appropriate considering the state of the capital
markets in the country;
he/she shall be expected to give detailed recommendations for
,.-ctor allocations, desired maturities profile, desired mix
between debt equity and other instruments, public and private
corporate exposure, quoted and unquoted securities, investments in
unit trusts and managed funds, etc.;
(C)   consultant should propose a detailed strategy for giving funds to
outside fund managers recommending whether such funds should be
given on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and specifying
the benchmarks against which each type of fund manager should be
judged; where the portfolio is given on a non-discretionary basis
the consultant should specify in detail the parameters within
which the fund manager is expected to invest, using his discretion
only for the selection of individual securities for the portfoliot
(h)   consultant vould also be expected to advise on the appropriate
basis of remuneration for the fund managers and for setting the
performance evaluation criteria for them;
(i)  he/she would be expected to train staff in the investment
department on how to evaluate the performance of the fund



- 93 -
AM= 11
Page 3 of S
managers, how often It should be done and the aiternatives that
could be followed, short of termination of contract., if the
performance is below the accepted benchmarks. The consultant
should also propose what would be an appropriate level of funds to
be given to each fund manager and how many outside fund managers
ought to be used in addition to the in-house
tradersIdealerslinvestmemt officers and other necessary expertise
that contractual savings institutions ought to develops
(j)   the consultant should advise on controls that should be built in
the system to trigger action If the performance of any of the fund
managers or that of any of the key staff of the investment
department falls below the specified standard. The objective of
instituting such jontrols is to find out about the Impending
disaster before it happens so that losses are not allowed to arise
or are contained at an early stage;
(k) consultant should be able to specify what would be a desirable
level of trading (turnover) of securities in the portfolio,
keeping in mind the objectives of the fuud and the constraints in
the marketplace;
(1) consultant vwuld liaise, Where considered necessary, vith other
in-house or outside experts such as funds actuary, pension
consultant, legal advisors, etc. to ensure that maturity profiles
of its portf oUo do not mismatch its liability profileg and
5.          The Consultant should propose any structural changes that he
considers necessary in a contractual savings institutions, including changes
In its governing las, the decision-making procedures or the structure of the
body corporate itself,, if in his opinion such changes would lead to better
fund management.
Puss  ImrI                    on- MZAZZQAMB
6*          It is expected that once the recommendations have been accepted by
the boards of respective institutions and the government, the second phase of
consultancy would be initiated to help implement the recommendations
7.          The second phase would involve the establishment of the investment
department, selection of key staff, their tralning, setting up of proper fund
management accounting and reporting systems, design of forms and stationery,
etc. The second phase would also include assistance in the operation of
control and mnitoring system for such period of tine as is necessary to
satisfy the board of the contractual savings Institution about the operation
and their ability to discharge their oversight responsibilities.



- 94 -
ANEXE 12
Page 1 of 3
SRr L
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PMDP)
THE BANK GROUP'-S INTERMEDIARY OPERATIONS
Objectives
1.          In support of the main elements of the government's PPPs, IDA's
major objectives in Sri Lanka are to help promote sustained export-led growth,
help reduce poverty and upgrade the country's human capital, and to protect
the environment. In pursuing these objectives through its lending and
economic and sector work, IDA is giving priority to: (a) macroeconomic
stability, emphasizing measures which address internal and external
imbalances; (b) addressing medium-term structural issues by improving the
incentives regime and by reducing the size of the public sector while
improving its efficiency; and (c) directly addressing poverty issues,
including mitigating the impact of adjustment on the poor, and removing the
physical and human capital constraints to sustainable long-term growth.
Intermediary Operations
2.          While IDA has always maintained a fairly strong presence in Sri
Lanka, its support has been largely dependent on the progress in the policy
dialogue with the country, and was particularly significant during the major
liberalization period after 1977 when assistance in_reased sharply.  In the
-id-1980s9 when the country faced ethnic proble.;, the inability of the
government to pursue a vigorous economic reform program constrained IDA's
country assistance strategy in terms of lending support. After 1989, the
resumption of a more ambitious reform program was supported through a larger
assistance program.
3.          As of December 31, 1992, IDA had approved credits totaling about
US$1.6 billion (net of cancellations). Although disbursement performance is
in line with the average for the region, Sri Lanka's record on project
implementation needs further improvement. Because of the civil conflict and
unsettled conditions in certain areas implementation of a number of projects
has been disappointing. With increasing budget constraints, some projects
have suffered from inadequate counterpart funding in addition to cumbersome
in country procurement procedures. These developments led to a decline in the
project (investment only) disbursement ratio from about 21 percent in FY86 to
about 15 percent in FY90 before climbing back up to about 25 percent in FY 91-
92. This improvement came about through intensified IDA supervision,
increased cost-sharing and joint tackling of systemic issues (e.g.,
procurement, disbursement procedures).
4.          The promotion of Sri Lanka's industrial and financial sector has
long been an objective of IDA's sectoral policy. This has been considered



- 95 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
necessary to: create a stable source of growth and employment; strengthen the
balance of payments through the growth of exports and import substitutesl and
strengthen financial institutions as intermediaries for development financing.
Prior to 1977, IDA purcued its limited industrial and financial sector
objectives through fouw operations channelled through DPCC.  However, after
1977, IDA's lending operations progressed from direct financial intermediation
to a multi-institutional financial sector approach, with operations channelled
through two specialized DPIs - NDB and DFCC. In 1979, IDA approved the first
of its more sectoral focused operations (the First SM1 Project -- Cr. 942-CE)
using the project as a vehicle to initiate the preparatory work for policy and
institutional reform programs. This was followed by a series of five further
operations which alternated funding for SMI operations with that for large
scale industry. Each project supported the development and implementation ox
the GOSL's evolving program of trade and industrial reform. Credits for SkI
development approved in 1979, 1982, and 1987 were channelled through DFCC, NDB
and the commercial banks, and three Industrial Development Projects (IDPs) for
large scale industrial investment and important elements of policy reform,
approved in 1984, 1985 and 1988, were directed "sing the same channels. Apart
from the Second SMI Project (Cr. 1182-CE) which was affected by civil
disturbances in the southern provinces and initial problems with loan pricing,
all of the projects have been disbursed ahead of schedule, with a cumulative
collection rate of more than 80 percent. The SMI projects have been
instrumental in creating more than 65,000 jobs at a relatively low capital
cost, particularly in areas of non-traditional exports.
5.          Performance under the TA component has been satisfactory.  Project
implementation support has resulted in the phased introduction of the reform
programs without major dislocations in the operation of the economy, while the
institutional development programs have resulted in the diversification of
operations of the DPIe, the involvement of the commercial banks in project
term-lending operations, and a steady supply of trained staff for the new
banks that have emerged with the removal of restrictions in the financial
sector. Currently, the GOSL and the implementing agencies are in full
compliance with covenants under the ongoing projects.
6.          PCRs and PPARs for the pre-1977 operations (Ln 520-CE, Ln 634-CE,
Cr. 565-CE and Cr 742-CE) noted that the projects had provided valuable
insight 2.nto the working of a small DPI and financial intermediary operation
in an exqsanding liberalized financial system. The PPARs indicated that the
Bank-gro4p financing was particularly important in the development of the
industr'.al sector and had helped catalyze the programs of trade and industrial
policy reform that were to come. The most recently completed industrial
projects (IDP-I1 SM¢-I and -II) focused mainly on the initial actions
necessary to develop the tariff reform program, rationalize the industrial and
export incentive structures, improve the overall operational viability of the
two DYIs and broadening the number of financial intermediaries. A 1991 OED
report ("World Bank Support for Small and Medium Scale Industry in Selected



- 96 -
A£113 12
Page 3 of 3
Countries") noted that the Sri Lanka SMI projects had succeeded in attaininag
the anticipated flow of credit to the target group of borrowers, although
where funds have moved slowly (SMI-I) this has been due to depressed business
conditions, and not to any faulty assessment of particular demand or of PCI
capacity. The ORD report also noted that the SMI projects also generated a
high level of resource additionality. The report noted that while the SI
projects have had a mixed record (depending upon the perceived objectives i.e.
access to credit, policy reforms or institutional strengthening), they have
worked well enough to allow future operations to build on past achievement,
broadening coverage and fine-tuning. The last of the SMI projects (SWT-IV,
Cr. 2250-CR) for SDR 33.3 million bacame effective on September 30, 1991
Although the two SCBs have been excluded since April 1992 from further
counitments of subprojects from SHI-IV because of their failure to satisfy the
capital adequacy requirements, both commitments and disbursements have been
proceeding ahead of schedule (SDR 7 million has already been disbursed). In
addition, several policy reforms including: (i) reduction of SCB's
shareholding DECC; (li) provisioning policies to be adopted by the PCts; (iii)
introduction of AWDR as a reference rate; (iv) remove legal const^iiats to
debt recovery legislation; (v) refining refinancing and reserve .r.auirements;
(vii) establishing a credit information bureau; and (vi) strengthening of the
accounting regulatory framework; have already been completed. Some others
such as the privatization of NDB, rationalizing and restructuring of NSB,
strengthening Bank supervision and regulation, etc. are progressing
satisfactorily.
The Proposed Prolect                                             ,
7.          IDA has been pursuing a policy reform dialogue with the GMSL aimed
at further strengthening of the financial sector for some time. Zn this
respect, the Financial Institutions Study conducted by IDA in 1991, and
interim reports of the COSL's Presidential Cammission on Banking and Finance
further defined the changing role of the financial sector and outlined the
necessary sequence of reforms. Although a number of important actions have
already been taken, further reforms are needed to increase mobilization of
domestic resources for term investments by the private sector and reduce the
detrimental effects of Treasury borrowings at managed rates. IDA will support
reforms of the policy and regulatory environment, especially the
revitalization of nonbank financial institutions, the development of an
efficient market for public and private debt instruments and the expanelon of
the private banking sector. The GOSL is now ready to implement the steps
necessary to address these issues and the proposed project will support these
reforms.
J/ An earlier 1989 Ind4stry Sector Paper (No. 20): "Wortd Bank Lending for Seall and Nadiu Entetprises:
Fifteen Years of Experiences, noted that the SRI projects in Sri Lanka ranked among the most successful of
the 70 operationm reviewed in 36 countrfes.



- 97 -
A3    13
Page 1 of 6
.L,3 Ea=  DNVRO PIHT PROJKFl(P)
TlSp8 0113== N   THE JM=               N 0II  gm1 LanK'S
igzaw slsclms N&
1.          O i.  This documet is intended to provide guidance to the
tocbhncal assistance team In developing a plan to modernize Sri Lanka's
Treasury Securities markets. The work is to be phs4ed in over several months.
In Phase I of the work, the TL consultants should review prior work on this
topic. They should then create and agree upon an action plan for the
sodemnisation of Sri Lanka's Treasury Security markets with the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka (CBSL). This plan would be Implemented In Phase II.
2.          Concertusl Design Obiectives. The objectives of restructuring
Sri Lanka9' government securities markets may be sumuarized briefly s8
followet
(a)  To Lengtbn the TerM Structure of OutstaninA  Treasurv Debt. In
the past, GOSL Treasury paper with maturities of over one year
have generally been placed directly with publicly-controlled
institutions at uon-competitive prices. These institutions have
traditionally held this paper to maturity and there has been no
secondary trading in public paper of original maturity of over one
year. A a result, there Is no meaningful Treasury Yield Curve to
serve as a benchmark for other public and/or private issuers of
medium- and long-term debt.
The GOSL ha already comuceod issuance of Treasury bills with
maturities over 12 months, but tbe demand for long-term Treasury
bills ha been rather weak. The GOSL has also initiated action to
amend law relating to the issuance of Treasury Securities and
Bond with coupon rates. These amendments will enable the Central
Bank to auction such bonds and securities so that the yield rates
would be determined by market forces.
The Central Bank requises the assistance in developing those new
instruments and improvsng the marketing techniques.
(b) To Broaden and D epem the Markets for Treasury and Private Sector
flU. A prinary and secondary market for Treasury bills of
maturitleu up to a ysr exists in Sri Lanka. The GOSL and CBSL
expect that the currently planned restructuring



- 98 -
AMNRI 13
Page 2 of 6
of the government securities and tradLig infrastructure vill
broaden and deepon the markwts for Treasury securities by drawing
a wider range of domestic and foreign buyers into the market.
That, in turn, should help develop the mzarkets for private sector
debt and lower the cost of issuing and carrying public sector
debt.
The opening of domestic financial sector to foreign investors,
however, needs to be studied carefully as a part of a total
policy reform related to interest rates, exchange rates and
capital transfers abroad. The Central Bank needs guidelines as to
how Intereat rates and exchange rates should be coordinated when
the financial market and capital transfers are liberalized.
5¢) To modernize the technical ;nfrastructure for creating, issuing,
storing and trading government securities in both the primary and
secondary markets.
3.          Review of Prior Work. The GOSL and CBSL have beer aware of the
need to modernize the operation of Sri Lanka's Treasury Securities market foir
quite some time. The documents attached to this TOR provide background
information on this subject that should be reviewed by the TA team.
4.          Specific Phase One Tasks. To achieve the foregoing objectives,
the following specific tasks should be addressed during Phase One of ti'.
projects
(a)   Debt Instrument Desiiu.  Create a brief description of each type
of Treasury debt security that might help to lengthen, broaden and
deepen the markets for such debt. This should include both fixed
and floativ, rate securities.
Review the rationale for the present practice of issuing numerous
mQdiumllong term debt instruments (e.g. Government Securities,
Treasury Cda and government guaranteed debentures, etc.). The
Consultant should also advise as to how the coupon rates on
Treasury Bonds and Securities are to be determined in relation to
their miaturities.
(b)   Market Research.  Describe how the poteutial markets for new kinds
of Treasury issues can best be gauged. Design and describe any
public education programs that might help attract potential buyers
to a broader range of GOSL Treasury issues.
(c) Revised Primarv Auction Procedures. Exactly how should the
present manually-operated system of gathering, assessing, and
awarding successful bids be changed?



- 99 -
AM=  13
Page 3 of 6
(d)   Desiam Imnroved Primary snd Secondary  aiuAetina Procedures.
Assess the recently implemented eystem of using 16 Primary Dealers
(PD.) to distribute new GOSL Treasury Issues and then trade them
in the secondary market. What, exactly, needs to :e done to work
out any flaws in the new system? This should cover, among othert,
the following:
(i)   Nov could equal opportunities be created to a11 Accredited
Primary Dealers? At present commercial banks which are appointed
as APD8 enjoy a distinct advantage over non-bank APDs, mainly
because of the availability of zero-cost fund. from depositors
and access to the secondary market window of the Ceutral Bank.  Is
there a cm 8 for allowing non-bank APDs also to maintain
accounts r:,:h the Central Bank and engage ln discounting and re-
discounting with the Central Bank? Should non-bank APDs be
allowed temporary short term liquidity from the Central Bank? If
we are to do so, what legal institutional and operational changes
are needed?
(ii) At present, commercial banks vhich are not APDs have to
purchase Treasury bills at the primary auction through a Dealer
but the secondary market window of the Central Bank is open to all
commercial banks. Is this a consistent arrangement?
(III) At present, unsuccessful bidders at the primary auction use
the secondary market window of the Central Bank to purchase
Treasury bills through commercal banks.  Is this practice
consistent with the objective of promoting secondary market
operations outside the Central Bank? Also, would not this
practice encourage bidders to offer lower prices at the primary
auction? (Because unsuccessful bidders can turn to the secondary
market window, without baving to vait for the next primary
auction.)
(iv) At present, government and semi-government institutions,
which together form a large segmeat of the market, are allowed to
buy Treasury bills directly from the Central Bank without
submitting competitive bids. Also, these institutions are not
required to buy Treasury bllls through the APDs. Would not this
practice of suppressing the demand artificially raise the cost of
Treasury bills? Alternatively, should not the facility of
submitting non-competitive bids be extended to all investors?
(e) Desian and Provide Preliminarv Specifications for an Automated
Tradina System. This should include a plan for expanding the
current Central Securities Depository (CSD) to incorporate
government securities, as well as a computerized trading network
showing all connected players wbat trades are occurring, as they
occur.



- 100 -
AM    13
rose 4 of 6
(f) Demsia a Revised Ststem fom Collecation of Towes gn gais Cond
Allowsn¢e for Losses) fgom lradin of government Securitesg. The
present system of withholding taxes on interet earned from the
initial buyer ha. obvious shortcomings. Now, exactly, should this
be corrected? Also, bow taxes on capital gain8 from intestment
Into such securtlies be collected?
The present system of recovery of withholding taoe. on Tresury
bills applies only to the final holders of bills. Will this
affect the secondary market operations?
(g)   Improve Regulation of the Gcvernment Securitleg Markets. What,
exactly, needs to be done to guard agalnst collusion, and to
ensure safety, soundness and capital adequacy In the system?
Review existing regulations and Identify areas of potential risks
that need to be covered by strengthening regulatory framework.
Also, what specific role(s) ohould CBSL be prepared to play as
"lender of last resort"?
There is also a need to develop a system to collect information on
the trading activities of the APDs end closely monitor their
or erations in Treasury bills . The consultants should provide
guidelinea to develop a data base and a monitoring system on
Primary Dealers.
5.          Prenaration for Phase Two. The Phase One TA team should also
describe exactly what kinds of experts will be needed to implement the pla,
and what in-country and other donor resources will be required. It should
also develop estimated budgets for both the planning and impleamntation
purposes. Moreover, an estimated set to TINM LINeS for completion of the
implementation phase tinould be included, along with appropriate budget and
work progress reporting formats.
6.        PMnsasment Pre&arations for Phbse TiM. finally, a detailed plan
for managing the entire project should be prepared, early on. It should st
forth proposed working relationships with CB8L, the Ministry of Finance and
the Inland Revenue Division (IID).



- 101 -
ANNEX  13
Page 5 of 6
PEASE II    UWLzWTAIN
1.          Overview.  This document spells out the specific tasks to be
completed by the TA team during the implementation phase of the work. It
flows directly from the TOR prepared for Phase I.
2.          Implementation Tasks and Timelines.  The following specific tasks
and tlmelines are suggested for bringing the implementation plan to fruitions
(a)   Instrument Desi_n
(i)   Conduct market research on proposed new issues.
(ii)  Review results with CBSL and the GOSL.
(iII) Decide on Instruments to be used.
.,A4v) Prepare legally formatted new instruments.
i(v)   Prepare descriptive brochures, etc. for marketing new
issues.
(b)   Inltiate Marketing Activity
Mi)   Prepare and schedule meetings and seminars for prospective
., buyers.
(ii)  Conduct the educational meetings and seminars, etc.
(iII) Brief the press and other media.
(tv)   Conduct manual test marketing, using the proposed new
instruments, prior to completion of the fully automated
trading systems.
(c).  Im=l.ment Revised Auction Procedures
(i)   Review and refine present manual procedures for issuing
Treasury paper --to permit both manual and book entry
issuance of the new types of instruments.
(ii)  Implement revised bookkeeping procedures for automated
bidding, awarding, tracking, and interest and principal
repayments on new issues.
(d)   Imolement Revised Secondary Narketina Procedures
(i)   Correct any flaws detected in the review of operations of
the new PD system.
(fi)  Respond to any valid feedback from Pds.



- 102 -
AMIE= 13
Page 6 of 6
(e)   ImDlement the Automated Traditn  System
(iM   Expand the scope of existing CSD to encompass government
securities.
(ii)  Assist in the expansion of the Communication Network to
include the dealers in the government securities (the
existing system covers the dealers in the Colombo Stock
Exchange).
(f)   Imnlement a New System for Taxina Government Securities
(M)   Review and redesign the present system for withholding of
taxes on interest earned.
(ii)  Advise on modalities for collection of taxes on investment
gains.
(iiI) Prepare and review with the GOSL's Finance Ministry
proposed new regulations to provide a basis for changes in
the tax collection mechanism. Also, assist in the drafting
of appropriate changes to the tax code manuals used by IRD
and domestic accounting firms.
(iv)   Create a new system for reporting interest earned and/or
capital gains to the Inland Revenue Division.
(g)   Imulement Improved ReaMlation of the Government Securities
Markets
(i)   Advise and implement new capital requirements and interest
rate risk control systems for the Pds.
(ii)  Advise and implement nw PD examination-visitation plans,
formats and work schedules for use by the SEC and CBSL
examiners.
(iII) Advise on emergency intervention plans for CBSL to use in
its role as lender of last resort.
3.          Prolect Mnamgement. Trackinit and Renortina. Finally, as noted at
the end of the Phase I TOR, a management reporting system should be
implemented early. It should provide specific procedures for detecting and
reacting to bottlenecks, off-track tasks, etc.



- 103 -                                     ANNEX 14
Pag4 1 of 2
SRI
?XVATU FINANCE DEVELOMT PROJECT (MFP)
SUPERVISION PLAN
Bank Superviion into Key ActMtles
ApproxIut. Date.                       Activity                   x"Iected Skills (SW)
July 1993                       Supervision Wission -             Op. Officer (2)
(a) finalization of project     Fin. Sector Specialist (2)
implementing arrangements,       Lawyer (2)
staff ng and consultancy
request for CBSL and k0Ft
(b) review of progress oan
USAID-flnanced componentg
(e) launching techaical
assistance for Debt Recovery
Courts; (d) follow-up oan
conditions of effectiveness
and disbursements.
October 1993                     Supervision  I      -            Op. Officer (2)
(a) follow-up on conditions     Fin. Sector Specialist (2)
of effectiveness and
disbursement; (b) first
review of progress in
regulatory reforms for
market-based issue of public
securities and enforcement of
accounting standards and bank
supervisiong (c) revie the
IDt's organization and
procadures for Admin4strative
Unit; (d) launebing of TA oan
asset managemat for
IPFI/TFIICSLINSB; (e) review
of restructuring of SCBs.
February 1994                   Spervision jssi   -               Op. Officer (2)
(a) review of progress oan      Economist (2)
USAID-financed c   _ m t and
regulatory modifications for
secondary trading of T-billa;
PCAF; (c) ex-post review of
projects approved under the
free-limits.
July 1994                       Supervision Missioa - review    Op. Officer (2)
progress: (a) development of    Lawyer (2)
primary and secondary market    Consultant (2)
in public debt instruments;
(b) on-site and off-site bank
supervision and experience
with implementation of legal
reforms; (c) progress in
enforcement of accounting
standards; (d) assessment of
demand under credit
component.



- 104 -                                             14
P&Se 20of 2
Bank Sup. ion In  Key ...it,.s_
t Appre_te Date.                    ActLivty             |-     pected SkifLs (SW)
lovemer 1994                    sprision 5sina                    Op. Officer (2)
preparation  f   taile  teon    Economist (2)
of reforence, staffi"  an        Lawyer (2)
schedule of emecutio of Mid-
Ter Revlew of project
implemtatlon. Revlew of
project  Isplmentation.
May 1995                         Joint  ank/Governmnt ld-         Op. Officer (2)
Term  eview of progres  In       Lawyer (2)
project implementation.          Fln. Sector SpeciaUet (2)
Diebursament (1)
September 1995                  Suervislon  Oission -             Cp. Officer (2)
presentation $Md review of       Lavyer (1)
issues, conclusion  and          Consultat (2)
recal_landationv of Mid-Term
Review. Preparation of
follow-up actien plan and
pslementing calendar.
January 1996                    Suuervision Missios  - follow-   Op. Officer (2)
up of Mid-Term Review action    Ind./Reg. BEoonomit (2)
plan and revised policy
matrix. Review of progress
In project imlementation and
other reforms and studies.
July 1996                       Supervision Mission - reviw       Op. Officer (2)
of progrss In project
implmentatioc an  of
outstanding issues.
Janary 1997                     Simervision Mission - review    Op. Officer (2)
of progress In project           Consultant (2)
implementation.
July 1997                        Supervislon Mission - saeme as   Op. Officer (2)
above.
Februa*y 1998                    uarlisB8o  - same as   Op. Officer (2)
September 1998                  Suuervision MIsSio  - sam  sS   Op. Officer (2)
above.
June 1999                       SuprvisioW ssion - PCR            Op. Officer (2)
preparation.



- 105 -
- 1£
PRIAT FnANCE DEYELOIHKU  PEO2IC  (ZFRP)
SELZCTED D2CCMENTS AID DATA AVAILABZLa P:OJCT t FIE
A.    Sectoral Studies
A. IFinacial Institutions Studys 1990
A.2 Induetrl*l Strategy Statements -- GOELt 1989
A.3   Interest Rate Structure
A.4  Study on Interest Rates on Donor Funds and thsir Ipact on
Development of Private Enterprise
A.5  gEvironmetal Policies and Procedures 1990
A.6 Export Development -- Future Program: 1990
A.7   Policy Framework Paper: 1992
A.$  Country Banking Reports 1992
A.9   A New Investment Promotion Strategy for Sri Lanka: 1992
A. 10 Improving Colombo Stock Exchange Regulations USASID, 1990
A.11  Consolidated Sri Lanka Securities Regulation: W9AID  1990
A. 12 A Study of the Regulation of Securities ln Sri Lankas ADS, 1991
B.   Project Reports
3.1  Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
B.2   Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL)
3.3   Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC)
3.4 Development Finance Corporation of Coylon (DYCO)
3.5  Employees' Provident Fund (EPP)
3.6 Employees' Trust Fund (STY)
3.7 Hatton National Bank (HMI)
3.8   Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL)
3.9  TIsurance Corporation of Sri L-aka (ICSL)
B.10  National Development Bank of Sri Lsank  (EDD)
3.11 National Savings lank (3SB)
5.12 Peoples Bank (PB)
B.13  Sampath Bank
B.14  Seylan Bank
C.   Working Papers
C.1  Format of Periodic Reports
C.2  Draft Participation Agreemets
C.3  Detailed TORK Environmental Manageet Strategy and Actoa Pla
for the Greater Colombo Metropolis
C.4  Survey of High Polluting Industries: 1991



IMRD 23009
~~~PR~~~~A                           L~M ANKA
NORTHERN
say Of
0~~~~~~
~~~"NDY                Amo-I~~~~~~~~M& 19
a~~~~~~~~~y \ \                      UUA
0~~~~~~~ '-' T' V .  
r  >     V       NOR1^HERN~SOUHR
JO        ... ;;'' &
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 19.   . .1



