Documet of
fhe World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
6?/Z ZyjS/- ciz
Repst No. P-5996-CE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENt OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 43.2 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LAK
FOR A
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPM   PROJECT
MARCH 19, 1993
6,.T 2P(.sJPII{ f  .:r (; Y
1R9F'.rt N;,. :F - ;  5199) CE  Type: (pW
Title.:  F'iRVATE DJTNANCIAI- lVFIC-iMFiT-
Aut.hoi-  HAFP'E7,. . ')1J T
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(As of Dcembc 1992)
Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)   *     100 palas
U8$1.00                -    Rs 46.0
Re 1.00                -    U8$0.022
Government of Ori Lanka      January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks             January 1 to December 31
DPCC                         April I to March 31
National Developmant Bank    January 1 to December 31
ABBRgVIATIONS AND PRINCIPAL ACROUS                                                               t
ADS       -   Asian Development Bak
AYPR      -   Average Weilhted Prie Rate
ANDR      -   Averaga Weighted Deposit Rate
BDD      -   Banking Devalopenet Depatment
BI8      -   Bank for Iaternational Settlements
BOC      -   Bank of Ceylon
BSD      -   Bank Supervision Department
C05C     -   Coaercial Bank of Ceylon
C55L      -   Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CI       -   Central Environmental Authority
slBSL    -   Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka
DFCC      -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DPI      -   Development Fiaence Institution
ZIA       -   Environmntal Impact Assessment
EMS       -   Environmental Management Strategy
EPP       -   Employees' Provident Fund
8PL       -   Environmental Protection License
EPZ       -   Export Procesaing Zone
Wm       -   Employees' Trust Fund
FM51     -   Forein Currency Banking Unit
1ID      -   Foreign Direct Investment
VW       -   Fore4n Inveatmant Advisory Service
OCEC     -   Greater Colombo Econamic Commission
Cam      -   Governat of Netherlands
GM51      -   Government of Sri Lanka
EnS       -   Eatton National Bank
ICASL    -   Inatitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
ICSL     -   Insurance Corporation of Sri Leaka
IDA      -   International Developmnt Association
M1        -   Monetary Board
MEIP      -   metropolitan Environmental mprovement Progrm
HIPA      -   Ministry of Environment and Parliamntary Affair.
IIO       -   Piniatry of Finance
SBFISD    -   Non-Bank Financial Institutionc Supervision Department
NDB       -   National DevelopmeLnt Bank of Sri Lanka
asSC      -   National Envionmental Steering Committee
RGO      -   Non-Govenaet Organizations
NIC      -   Nawly Industrialized Country
RSB      -   National Savings Bank
Ps       -   People's  ank
PCOP     -   Pollution Control and Abatement Fund
PCI      -   Participating Credit Institution
PIEs      -   Public Manufacturing 8nterpriass
PIEC     -   Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit
RaDS     -   Regional Rural Development Banks
SgB      -   State-Owned Commercial Bank
SCOPE    -   Sceme for Control of Pollution from Existing industries
SKI      -   Small and Medium Industry
SmIB     -   State Mortgage and Invstment Bank
SOB      -   Statement of Expenses
TA        -   Technical Asistance
TAP      -   Technical Assistance fund
TOR      -   Terms of Refer"e
WA       -   Urban Development Act
URDP     -   United Nations Delopment Progrm



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRIA
PRIVATE FIRANCE DNVEL0PHMEJTJ,goET
Credit nd Prosect Summary
Borrower:          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beunefciaries:    Private development finance institutions (DPI)s and private
domestic commercial banks meeting the eligibility critoria
for participation. The credit component will support
private enterprises, without limitation to their size or
subsector. A technical assistance (TA) component will
assist selected agencies and the participating credit
institutions (PCIs) in implementing the key elements of the
Project, including development of financial markets and
implementation of envwronmental standards.
Amount:            SDR 43.2 million (US$60 milli-= equivalent).
Termss             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Relendina Terms:  The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) will on-lend the credit
proceeds to PCIs for up to 15 years, including a maximum
five-year grace period, at a variable rate equivalent to
the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR). The PCIs will
have full autonomy to price the loans to enterprises
according to perceived risk, maturity and to cover their
intermediation costs.
Financuit Plan:
USS Million
IDA               60.0
Co-financiers      12.0
PCI.              38.3
Entrepreneurs     43.3
Total            153.6
Staff Am,raisal Report:      Report Number 11572-CE
Hav:   IBRD Number 23009
This document has a restricted distribution and m-y be used by reci,vients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed w.thout World Bank authorization.



KEMORAIDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TUI PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMNWT ASSOCIATION TO THE EZECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCILIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LNA FOil A
PRIVATE FINAXCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.          I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed development credit to the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka for SDR 43.2 million (US$60 million) to help finance a
private finance development project. The proposed credit would be on standard
IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years.
2.          Economic Performance and Cballenaes.  For over fifteen years, Sri
Lanka has tried to dismantle the inward-looking development strategy that
followed independsuce. After the initial reform push of 1977, economic
management oscillated between periods of slow and more rapid reform, but both
state ownership and intervention in economic activity remained extensive.
Throughout the 1980s, the Government maintained a strong role in the economy,
dominating the import substituting industrial sector, employing half of the
non-agriculture labor force and accounting for half of GDP. Reform efforts
accelerated after 1989 and substantial progress has been achieved since.
3.          Background.  The Government's reform program in the financial
sector aims at increasing the role of private financial institutions,
improving prudential regulations and supervision, and increasing the
efficiency of financial intermediation. Important elements of the program are
increased reliance on domestic resource mobilization for productive
investments, development of primary and secondary markets for public and
private debt instruments and introduction of effective asset management
techniques in contractual savings institutions. The GOSL has also decided to
privatize the state-owned insurance corporations.
4.          The commercial banking system comprises more than 20 banks
including six domestic banks, two of which are state-owned. The two DIls, the
-UDI and the DFCC, are a small but expanding segment of the financial sector
providing a majority of all formal term lending for productive investment.
The private domestic banks, that have steadily been increasing their market
share, are also diversifying gradually into a broader range of activities,
including term lending for investment.
5.          Although the financial performance of DFCC and NDB has been
commendable, they have remained dependent on the GOSL and multilateral donors
for funding. While they made limited progress in broadening their resource
base, further diversification of their activities was constrained by the
GOSL's dominant shareholding in MDB and DFCC. In 1991, public sector
ownership in DICC was further reduced to 30 percent and in March 1993, MDB was
privatized by reducing GOSL's ownership of MDB to 39 percent. The terms of
IMB's sale require that GOSL's ownership is further reduced to less than 20
percent at the time of conversion of the convertible debentures.
S.          A major concern in the financial sector is the performance of the
two state-owned commercial banks (SCBs) that dominate the banking system in
terms of size and act as market leaders. Based on t 1991 external audit, it
is estimated that an infusion of more than Re 24 billJon is required to
recapitalize these two banks to internationally accepted standards. Political
constraints bave, so far, prevented the GOSL from privatizing the SCBs. While



-2-
this remains a medium-term objective of the GOSL, the GOSL has decided to
undertake a number of interim measures with a view to lending a commercial
focus to the operation of SCBs, and legal and administrative reforms are being
implemented.
7.          The ongoing reforms are expected to help address some of the
problems facing the SCBs, but are unlikely to remove the major causes of poor
performance, particularly government interference. Therefore, the SCBs will
not be eligible for participation under the proposed credit. A number of the
remaining private commercial banks and the two privatized DFYs are
sufficiently strong and experienced in investment finance to carry out the
objectives of this project. This will also assist the private commercial
banks and the DFI. to increase their market share of profitable commercial
term lending.
8.          Lessons Learned from Previous Ogerations.  A 1991 OED report'
noted that the Sri Lanka Small and Medium Industry (ZMI) projects had
sueceedeSd in attaining the anticipated flow of credit to the target group of
borrowers and generated a high level of resource additionality to the sector.
Apart from the Second $M1 Project (Cr. 1182-CE) which was affected by civil
disturbances in the southern provinces and initial problems with loan pricing,
all of the projects have beeu disbursed ahead of schedule, with a collection
rate of more than 80 percent. These projects were instrumental in creating
more than 65,000 jobs at a relatively low capital cost, particularly in areas
of non-traditional exports.
9.          The last of the intermediation projects (SMI-IV, SDR 33.3 million)
became effective on September 30, 1991. Although the two state-owned banks
(SCBs) have not been eligible since April 1992 from further commitments of
subprojects from SMI-IV because of their failure to satisfy the capital
adequacy requirements, both commitments and disbursements have been proceeding
ahead of schedule (over 50 percent is committed and more than 20 percent
disbursed). In addition, several policy reforms including: (i) reduction of
SCB's shareholding in DFCC; (ii) provisioning policies to be adopted by the
PCIs; (iii) introduction of Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR) as a
reference rate; (iv) removal of legal constraints to debt recovery; (v)
refining refinaucing and reserve requirements; (vi) establishing a credit
information bureau; and (vii) strengthening of the accounting regulatory
framework have already been completed. Other reforms such as the
privatization of 1DB, rationalization and restructuring of NSB and the ICSL,
and strengthening Bank supervision and regulation are progressing
satisfactorily. This project builds upon the mechanisms developed in previous
projects. TA is not overly ambitious and data from previous operations is
considered in determining on-lending terms and conditions.
10.         Rationale for IDA's Involvement.  IDA has been pursuing a policy
reform dialogue with the GOSL aimed at further strengthening of the financial
sector for some time. The Finarcial Institutions Study conducted by IDA in
1991, and interim reports of the %OSL's Presidential Commission on Banking and
Finance, further defined the changing role of the financial sector and
outlined the necessary sequence of reforms. Although a number of important
I World Bank Support for Small and Medium Scale Industry in Selected
Countries.



actiors have already been taken, further reforms are needed to increase
mobilzxation of domestic resources for term investments by the private sector,
reduce the detrimental effects of Treasury borrowings at managed rates tad
deepen the financial sector.
11.         IDA's assistance strategy to Sri Lanka was summarized in the CAS
document 'Report No. P-5777-CE) discussed by the Executive Directors on
December 10, 1992. Recent support to the Government9s overall economic reform
program has been provided through two adjustment operations (ERC 1 and PMEAC).
A proposed ERC 2 would continue this support, particularly in the areas of
privatixation and restructuring of public enterprises, trade policy and public
expenditure. This Project will support reforms of the policy and regulatory
environment in the financial sector, especially the revitalization of non-bank
financial Institutions, the development of an efficient market for public and
private debt instruments and the expansion of the private banking sector.
12.         Project Objectives.  The proposed project seeks to: (a) improve
the efficiency of financial intermediation in Sri Lanka by supporting policy
and regulatory reforms in the financial sector; (b) assist in domestic
resource mobilization for long-term investment by stimulating the development
of local bond markets; (c) enable the private sector to respond to the
changing economic environment by providing investment finance; and (d) help
deepen the financial system and strengthen the key players including the
contractual savings institutions, the CBSL, the MOP, the GOSL, the ICASL and
the PCIs.
13.          Pro4ect Descrigtion.  To achieve these objectives, the Project
cotaprises:
(a)   Improvemwnts in Policy Pramw orks The Project will support
wide ra"ing reform of the policy and regulatory environment in the financial
sector, especially in areas affecting mobilization of domestic resources for
investments through commercial channels.  S.gnificant elements being supported
through this project Includes
(i)   development of market procedures for the issuance of
longer-dated public debt itntrumento, development of
trading and settlements infrastructure and deepening of
primary and secondary dealing in debt instruments;
(ii)  assisting the public contractual savings Institutions to
develop portfolio management skills and reducing the
process of reverse term transformation by these
institutions;
(iii) development of monitoring and enforcement mechanisms for
the already adopted International accounting and auditing
standards;
(iv)   strengthening supervision activities of the Central Bank,
introduction of asset-based capital adequacy requirements
and increasing the coverage and coordination of supervision
activities; and
(v)   further strengthening of the debt recovery legislation.
(b)   Invewtment Credit Component (US$57.5 million equivalent):
The credit component will make funds available to the PCIs to provide term
loans to private enterprises. Funds will be on-lent by the GOSL directly to
the PCIs, on a variable rate basis, at the Average Weighted Deposit Rate



-4-
(AWDR) reset every three or six months. The on-lending rate will be reviewed
periodically and changed to the Treasury bill rate when a vell established
secondary market for Treasury bills develops. The PCIs will be free to
determine the final variable rate to sub-borrowers. The project will increase
the extent to which the PCIs are to mobilize domestic resources by financing
only 60 percent of the loan amount. Although the direct Zoreign exchange risk
will be carried by the GOSL, a variable and market-determined final lending
rate will transfer the risk to the sub-borrowers. Subloans in excess of the
free limit specified for each PCI will require IDA's clearance. IDA
participation in a specific subloan will be limited to US$2.0 million.
Repayment by the PCIs to the QOSL will be based on a composite subproject
amortization schedule not exceeding 15 years, with a maximum of five years
grace.
(c)   Technical Assistance Component (US$2 5 million equlvalent):
This component, will provide assistance for the preparation and implAmentation
of various policy reforms noted in (a) Above. The TA funds will be primarily
used to assist MOP, CBSL, ICASL, state owned insuranwe corporations and the
PCIs.
14.          Environmental Issues. Sri Lanka has enjoyed a long history of
attention to the environmental impact of industrial development. With IDA
assistance, GOSL prepared a National Environmental Action Plan in 1991, to
establish a more coordinated approach to environmental planning and
implementation. The plan is being implemented with the active support of the
donor community and non-government organize.tions. IDA has had satisfactory
experience with the GOSL in carrying out previous industrial projects,
including, most recently, SMI-IV in 1991. The proposed project has an overall
environmental rating of "B", although the environmental impact from subproject
to subproject will vary. To minimize the risk of adverse environmental
effects, all subprojects will be required to conform with the general
environmental guidelines issued by the GOSL In October 1992 and monitored by
the Central Environmental Authority.
15.          The project will support setting up of a Pollution Control and
Abatement Fund (PCAU) to provide investment funds to existing industries to
help them comply with environmental standards. Financing for this component
is expected from the Government of Netherlands (GON) on a grant basis.
Sponsors will also be able to engage specialized TA from the PCAP to
reformulate the project proposal to include measures necessary to comply with
the CEA's environmental guidelines. The subloans from this component will be
provided at zero real interest rates, determined at the time of the first
disbursement of the subloan based on the latest published rate of inflation
(inflation was 11 percent at the end of December 1992). The nominal interest
income will be earmarked for monitoring compliance with environmental
standards.
16.          Prolect Administration.  The design of the proposed project doea
not require full Apex arrangements. The administrative responsibilities will
be performed by an Administrative Unit in the NDB on behalf of the COSL on a
fee basis. The Unit will also administer the technical assistance component
funds and the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAF). Coordination for
the implementation of policy reform will done by the Committee for Financial
Sector Reforms in the Ministry of Finance.



- 5 -
17.          Pro1iet SustainabilitZ. The policy reforms bei_g supported
through this project focus on eliminating the obstacles to domestic resource
mobilization for productive investments so that financial markets can continue
to operate efficiently. These reforms, together with the TA, will also
increase the abllity of the PCIs to appraise subprojects and provide finance
for term investments in an environmentally sound manner.
18.          Cofinancing.  Cofinancing of about US$12 million, on a grant
basis, from the USAID and CON is expected to be mobilized for this project.
USA$D is providing about US$7 million to finance the TA supporting the
development of the bond market and upgrading the enforcement of accounting and
audlit standards. The GON will fiuance the environment component.
19.         Agreed Actions.  During negotiatimn, key agreements reached with
the GOSL includes
(a)         a draft letter of financial sector policy laying out, later ails:
its commitment to the introduction of variable rate lending;
measures to further strengthen debt recovery legislation; steps to
improve enforcement of accounting and auditing standards; a
program for improved banking supervision and regulation;
procedures for rational asset management of the contractual
savings institutions (EPF, ETP, NSB and ICSL); steps for
lengthening the maturity structure of competitively priced
treasury securities and promoting a secondary market in those
instruments; the approach for reducing public sector role in the
DMI.; and literim measures designed to lend a greater commercial
focus to thu operations of the SCBs;
(b*         the use of the average weighted deposit rate (AWDR) of interest-
bearing term deposits as the initial on-lenditg reference rate for
the credit component and the adoption of a market-based benchmark,
such as the Treasury bill rate, after the market is developed; and
(c)         conditions of PCI participation, including compliance with risk
asset classification and provisioning requirements for non-
performing loans, collection ratios, profitability, capital
adequacy, management capacity and audit and accounting
requirements.
20.         Benefits and Risks.   With recent increases ln private sector
investment in manufacturing, and prospects for continuation of this trend, the
country's financial sector is experiencing a shortage of funds for term
lending. While this is partly due to large government demand for loanable
funds, it is also due to lack of investment skills by institutional savers,
and insufficient efforts to mobilize term resources by financial
intermediaries.  The proposed project will not substitute for the necessary
efforts to mobilize domestic resources but will enaourage and complement these
efforts. The provision of term finance to the private sector will enable
these enterprises to take advantage of the changing economic environment and
retool their operations, improve efficiency and expand their markets. The
project will lay the groundwork for the development of new financial
instruments, including medium- and long-term bonds, and will encourage the
existing financial institutions to diversify their funding sources. It will
also provide assistance for the restructuring of the SCBs and support the
GOSL's efforts to improve financial sector efficiency. TA and credit to firms
for environmental investments will help ease the environmental burden of the



-6-
country'. Industrial sector, particularly In tLe Greater Colombo area.
21.         The main risks to the project's success lie In the overall
investment climate in Sri Lanka. If the ethnic disturbances escalate
significantly, comitment and disbursement rates for the project would suffer,
and repayment rates of subloans to the PCIs could also be adversely affected.
However, private investment In recent years has been high and the PCIs
forecast a rising demand for inveotment finance. Sustaitable improvements In
the PCIs' ability to mobilize domestic resources vill depend on the GOSL's
success with maintaining macroeconomic stability, containing the public
sector's borrowing requirements and pricing public sector borrowing at market-
determined rates.
22.         Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed development
credit would comply with the Lrticles of Agreement of the Association and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 19, 1993



SCOEDVLE A
PRIVATE Ei3&NCB DEVELOPHINT PROJECT
Estfimated Costs aqd 1iosnanLng Plea
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign    Total
Credit Component        78.7       61.2         139.9
Technical Assistance    2.9         10.8         13.7
Total                   81.6       72.0         153.6
Financing Plant
IDA                      0.0        60.0         60.0
Co-financiers            0.0         12.0        12.0
PCIs                    38.3          0.0        38.3
Entrepreneurs           43.3          0.0        43.3
Total                   81.6        72.0        153.6



PRVT  FACI DIlVELOUIE  PROET
(US$ million)
Procurment  gthodA
Prolect Elsmnts                     Other'                  1
Subproject Investment               57.5                    57.5
Technical Assistance (TA)            2.5'                    2.5
60.0                    60.0
Cateftory         Amunt    Eendi=tures to be Finaned
Subloans          57.5      60S of smounts disbursed by the PCIs.
TA                 2.5      1001 of local comeulting expenditure;
1001 of foreign expenditure;
701 of civil work. (uazlrukm of US$200,000);
1001 of ex-factory cost of local expenditure; and
80S of other local expenditure.
Disbursementsa
IDA Fiscal Year:   FY94      FY95    FY96      FY97    FY98
_____    -----    __     __ -_____-_
Annual               6.6    13.8    21.0    13.2         5.4
Cumulative           6.6     20.4    41.4    54.6    60.0
Percentage           llS      34S      691      91S     1001
1 Procurement would be o-i the basis of established comercial practices
which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA. Contracts for good. coating
less than US$50,000 and not exceeding US$1 million in agr.egote, may be procured
throtugh local shopping. All procurement exceeding US$1 million will be subject
to international competitive bidding procedure.
2 Consulting services would be procured in line with the World Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



-9,
PRIVATR- PtCU S_DVXLOPM  FsOJCT
TImtable of NU PwI ect Ptocegata Iyyetl
Tim  taken to prepare thb project   I    May 1992-May 1993
Prepared by                         I    Participating Institutlons
with IDA easestance
First IDA miosion                   I    June 1992
Appralsol mission departure         *    December 1992
Negotiations                        X    March 1993
Planned dots of effectiveness       X    July 1993
List of relevant PCR. and PPARn     I    SMW II Project (Cr. 1182-CE)
PPAR Datet June 1991
PCR Date: February 1992



Ee. tl                                    a |       1} J
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
01
|!~ ~~1 |111 0g                              00 liiis3   j       ISE
I 01   . . . .. .i..
bg~~~~~~~~~ I                    I il30||a2"|1|  0 1| 
X~~~      g ""111  !!!IIBBB666B666                III



- 11 -
SC ~D
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
B. STATEMENT OF IFO INVESTMENTS
(As od Oesombe 31. 1092)
Amount (ntdiUkae
Date         Borows,                       Purpose                           Loan    Equty        ToWal
1i0          Pearl Textile Mll             Teile & Fibers                     2.50     0.78        3.26
10781101     Oevelpment Finance          ODeopmnent Finance                            040         0.40
Cop_ation of Ceylon
1078181      BanS of Ceyblo                Oevlc pment Fnae                  7.00                 7.00
1is          Mlkeedus industes Uritld &
Ceylon Paper Sam   Ltd.      Woven Polypropylene ags            0O        0.09       00
*81          Ceylon Syeto Towxle           Textiles& Fibers                   3.18     0M4         8A0
19804486    Lanka  o  Leasing Co 'td.    Capil Market                         3.00     0.34        3.34
1081         Lanka Hotels                  Tourbm                            10.30     0.70       20.00
Is"          UAL                           Money & Capitd Market                       0.46        0.48
1031         CDIC                          Developent Finano                           3.05        3.05
1t02         CKN FUND MGMT                 Capita] Mat                                 0.00        0.00
1092         PYRAMID TRUST                 Capit Mat                                   0.25        0.2
10h3         Lanka Cellular                T.1oommunicadons                            1.36        1i
Tota Gross Commmn_t                                            35S4       8.06      4.11
Las Canceatons. Temon Exchanoes
Adjustments. Prepaym and Sale
Writef and SW"il                                                                  316.6
Todl Commitn  now held by IPC                                                         .0
Tot Undidsrsed (Includin pardtcpants' portion)                                       4.41



IBRD 23009
SRI LANKA
0   owerucArMi
NORTHERN
Say Of
tm                 CENTRALS?.                               S
NORTH                   P06anm 1jR1
>             (       < Mbb WESTRNTERN-. 
Arabian                                                    f          i     %
V~~~~ ~ ~                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7    r    .PAi X, 
Gampb                                          UVA-*u4 . .    
r   ,J  >     %              ~~~~~Ng,wmo i<           V 
COLOMBOg                                               0 J2N0           t4 iU  
Klo 20  33TruUo                       z  
i  |  l  t  I  I k          sSOUTHERNHh
e to le  soa 0X             
MAY 1991



