Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20149
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2484-CE)
March 8,2000
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs. Per US 1.00       US$ Per Rs. 1.00
1993                         48.32                          0.021
1994                         49.42                          0.020
1995                         51.25                          0.019
1996                         55.27                          0.018
1997                         58.99                          0.017
1998                         64.59                          0.015
1999 (till May)              69.34                          0.014
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AASMB                      Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board
ADB                        Asian Development Bank
AU                         Administrative Unit
AWDR                       Average Weighted Deposit Rate
BOC                        Bank Of Ceylon
CBSL                       Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CCC                        Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
CSI                        Contractual Savings Institution
DFCC                       Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DFI                        Development Finance Institution
EPF                        Employees' Provident Fund
ETF                        Employees' Trust Fund
FIL                        Financial Intermediation Loan
HNB                        Hatton National Bank
IDA                        International Development Corporation
IFC                        International Finance Corporation
KfW                        KfW-Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOFP                       Ministry of Finance and Planning
NDB                        National Development Bank
NIC                        National Insurance Corporation
NSB                        National Savings Bank
OMO                        Open Market Operations
PB                         Peoples' Bank
PCAF                       Pollution Control and Abatement Fund
PCI                        Participating Credit Institutions
PERC                       Public Enterprise Reforms Commission
PFDP                       Private Finance Development Project
SCB                        State Commercial Banks
SLIC                       Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
SMI                        Small and Medium Industries
TA                         Technical Assistance
USAID                      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL, National development Bank & Commercial Banks = January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon = April 1 to March 31
Vice President:               Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director- Sri Lanka:  Ms. Mariana Todorova
Sector Director:              Ms. Marilou Uy
Team Leader:                  Mr. Joseph Pemia
Task Leader/Economist:        Ms. Sriyani Hulugalle
Peer Reviewer:                Mr. Robert M. Buckley



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2484-CE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ....................................................................i
Project Implementation  Assessment ....................................................................1
A.  Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ...................................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting  the Project ...................................................................3
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................................4
E.  IDA  Performance  .................................................................... 5
F.  Borrower Performance  .........................                            ...........................................6
G.  Assessment of Outcome ....................................................................7
H. Future Operations ...................................................................                                         15
I .   Key Lessons Learned  ........................                            ........................................... 16
Implementation of Policy Measures Agreed at Negotiations .................. .                                                    18
Statistical Tables
Table  1   :    Summary  of Assessments ........................................................ 24
Table 2    :   Related Bank  Loans/Credits ..................................................                             ..... 25
Table  3    :   Project Timetable ........................................................                                      26
Table 4             Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......... 27
Table  5    :   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................                               .............. 28
Table 6    :   Key  Indicators for Project Operations ................................................. 29
Table  7    :   Studies Included  in the Project .......................................................                          31
Table  8A:    Project Costs ....................................................... 32
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................................                                                ,       , 33
Table 9   :   Economic Costs and  Benefits ............................................. 34
Table  10:    Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ 35
Table  11:    Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements .......................                                     ........ 37
Table  12:    Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                                         38
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                                                 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Statistical Annexes
Annex 1 : Legislative Enactments Relating to Financial Sector Reforms ............ 40
Annex 2  : Relative Size of the Financial Sector 1993 &  1998 .............................. 43
Annex 3    Summary of Commercial Bank Performance ....................................... 44
Annex 4  : Compliance of the Agreements: Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank .. 47
Annex 5  : Investments of Contractual Savings Institutes (CISs) in
Non-government Securities ..................................       .................. 48
Annex 6: Credit Component ....................................................                     49
Annex 7    Pollution Control and Abatement Fund ................................................  51
Annex 8    Technical Assistance ....................................................               52
Annex 9    Brief Report on Studies Conducted under the Project .......................... 55
Annex 10: Compliance of Eligibility Criteria by PCIs .                    .......................................... 60
Annex 11: Brief Note on Site Visits .....................              ............................... 61
Appendixes
A. Aide Memoire of August 1999 ICR Mission
B. Borrower's contribution to ICR and comments



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2484-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Finance
Development Project in Sri Lanka, for which Cr. 2484-CE in the amount of [SDR 43.2
million] equivalent was approved on April 20, 1993 and made effective on August 2, 1993.
Final disbursement took place on December 8, 1999 and a balance of SDR 3,794,514.33 was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Sriyani Hulugalle, Finance and Private Sector
Development Unit of South Asia and reviewed by Marilou Uy and Joseph Pernia.
Robert M. Buckley was the peer reviewer for the ICR. The Borrower provided comments
that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in August 1999. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by providing data and information.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2484-CE)
Evaluation Summary'
1.   Introduction - The Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) was a follow-up of
seven industrial/financial credit lines from International Development Association (IDA) since
1979, totaling US$212.8 million. It was the first credit line to deviate from being directed to a
selected category within the industrial sector (e.g., small and medium or large scale industries).
This was mainly because the IDA felt that Sri Lanka's financial sector had developed adequate
institutional capacity to allocate resources fairly efficiently. The total cost of the project was
US$153.0 million with the IDA contributing US$60.0 million. The balance was provided by
United Nations Agency for International Development (USAID), KfW2, participating credit
institutions(PCIs), entrepreneurs and the Government. The USAID and the KfW provided
funds under their bilateral lending programs even though at the appraisal stage they had agreed
to co-finance.
2.   Proiect Objectives - The main project objectives of the PFDP were: (a) improving
efficiency of financial intermediation by supporting policy and regulatory reforms in the
financial sector; (b) assisting domestic resource mobilization for long term investment by
stimulating the development of the local bond market; (c) enabling private sector to respond to
the changing economic environment by providing investment finance; and (d) help deepening
the financial system and strengthening the key players in the financial sector. The main project
components to support the above objectives were: (i) a credit component of US$138.8 million
(IDA - US$57.2 million; PCIs and entrepreneurs - US$81.6 million) to provide investment
capital for the industrial sector; and (ii) a technical assistance (TA) component of US$14. 5
million (IDA - US$2.5 million; USAID - US$7.0 million, KfW - US$5.0 million) for, (a)
establishing a viable domestic bond market; (b) preparing the state-owned commercial banks
for restructuring and recapitalization; (c) implementing the new accounting and auditing
standards, debt recovery legislation and strengthening the bank supervision function of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL); (d) continuing to upgrade the capabilities of Participating
Credit Institutions (PCIs); and (e) supporting implementation of environmental standards by
entrepreneurs, PCIs and regulatory agencies. The USAID provided technical assistance mainly
for capital market development (Para. 68), while the KfW funded the Pollution Control and
Abatement Fund (PCAF) (Para. 63 & 64).
3.   The PFDP project objectives conforned to the country assistance strategy and provided
the much needed investment capital for the private sector through the private banks. The
project provided an impetus to creating a conducive legal framework for enhancing the
domestic resource mobilization capacity of the private financial institutions. It also helped in
increasing the supervisory role and the supervisory capacity of the CBSL and assisted capacity
building in the PCIs. The risks identified at the appraisal (e.g., macro economic stability and
I Provides cross-reference to paragraphs from Part I that provide more details.
2 KfW - Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaufbau
1



the conflict situation) affected the pace of policy reforms, especially the restructuring of the
state banks and insurance sector as well as the investment climate.
4.   Implementation Experience and Results of Policy Reforms - The results of policy
component of the project were unsatisfactory. Some actions were taken but in most cases they
did not result in achieving the desired outcomes as they addressed only the symptoms rather
than the cause of the problems. The actions taken are reflected in the Attachment 1 of the
main report. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) provided necessary legal framework to
facilitate issuing of long term debt instruments. It also enhanced the market orientation of the
debt market by introducing publication of information relating to treasury bill auctions (Para.
29-32). In addition, preliminary work had been initiated to introduce scripless trading of
government debt securities and develop the secondary market (Para. 33-34). Furthermore,
during the project period, the CBSL has taken several progressive steps to increase the
diversification of the investment portfolio of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and also to
improve the management efficiency of the EPF, thereby, bringing better returns to the
beneficiaries (Para. 37-38). However, the Government's deficit financing policy would
continue to constrain the ability of the EPF's management to increase flexibility in their
investment decisions. The Government has taken several progressive steps towards increasing
investment in non-governmental paper by the contractual savings funds. This is supplemented
by measures to improve market orientation of open market operations (Para. 33 & 34).
5.   The CBSL enhanced its supervisory capacity bringing the specialized licensed banks also
under its supervision and improved the reporting systems (Para. 40-41). The MOFP and the
CBSL also took positive steps to introduce disclosure policies that would improve the financial
management, in not only the banking sector but also in the corporate sector (Para. 56). The
required legal framework and the institutional arrangements are in place to ensure monitoring
compliance. The banking sector continue to improve the technical expertise of their staff in the
private as well as public sector banks to ensure sustainability of these reform programs.
6.   However, the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) and the CBSL failed to
commence on a major restructuring program of the state banks to improve their financial
performance. They only had taken limited damage control measures to contain the expansion
of the state banks (Para. 42-47). In addition, the Government could not finalize the new
insurance law that would enable setting up the regulatory authority to provide a level playing
field for the industry (Para. 48-49).
7.   Implementation Experience and Results of the Credit Component - The
performance of the credit component was rated satisfactory (Para. 58-62). The Government
onlent funds directly to the PCIs, on a variable basis at the Average Weighted Deposit rate
(AWDR)3. AWDR was selected as a reference rate specially to reflect the average cost of
funds in the absence of a long-term yield curve. The credit was fully committed and the
disbursements amounted to 96% of the approved amount. Although the PCIs included three
commercial banks and the two Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), the DFIs accounted
for 95% of the total commitments. The private banks' liquidity position was favorable with the
increase in deposit mobilization and also due to a significant reduction in the CBSL' s statutory
reserve requirements. The project assisted in generating capital investment of US$138.8
million in the industrial sector while the total employment generated was approximately
12,184.
8.   The metal, chemical and plastic sub-sector led the lending portfolio (20.7%) under the
PFDP followed by the services (17.5%), hotels (16.0%), textiles and garments (11.6%) and
3 Please to refer Part I- Page I foot note.
.it



rubber and leather sub-sectors (9%) (Annex 6 -- Table 2). The funds were mostly accessed by
the services sector mainly because there were other lines of credit available for small and
medium scale industries from the IDA and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) during the
initial period. Of the approved sub-loans, 80% was concentrated in the Western Province.
(Annex 6-Table 3.). The continuing ethnic conflict and inadequate physical and economic
infrastructure outside the Western Province contributed to this high concentration.
9.   The textiles sector led the employment generation with 31% followed by metal, chemical
sector with 18%, services with 12%, rubber and leather with 10% and hotels with 9%. The
geographical distribution of employment creation almost reflected a similar trend except for
Galle where employment generation was significantly higher with 11% compared to the credit
disbursement of 3.4% (Annex 6: Table 2 & 3 ).
10.  Most of the credit funds were committed ahead of schedule. In addition, with the
effective monitoring by World Bank Colombo Office and National Development Bank (NDB),
the undisbursed loans were reallocated several times in consultation with the PCIs to optimize
the utilization of funds.
11. Implementation Results of the TA Component - The TA component was marginally
satisfactory (Para 65-73) as both the MOFP and the Central Bank took more time than
necessary to initiate the studies which were background work for some of the proposed
reforms. Consequently the reforms in state bank restructuring, increasing domestic resource
mobilization capacity and development of the debt market got further delayed. With the
significant depreciation of the dollar against the SDR, the amount available for TA was
substantially higher than the original allocation. The TA component was fully committed and
disbursed by the close of the project. This was mainly due to the close coordination the IDA
had with the implementing agencies. In addition, the Bank missions closely monitored the
progress and ensured that the identified studies were prioritized and also ensured that proper
procurement procedures were followed (Annex 8 - Table 1).
12.  (a) Capacity Building of PCIs and other Financial SectorInstitutions - (US$921,232):
The staff of the four PCIs, MOFP and CBSL participated in overseas training programs. In
addition, Harvard University conducted two training programs on project appraisal which were
organized by the two DFIs. It was an economical way of providing high quality training to a
large number. In total, 198 PCI staff were trained in various aspects of banking such as credit
management, financial management, treasury management, environment appraisal and project
rehabilitation (Annex 8 - Table 2). The training courses were approved on the basis of
relevance to the institutions and also on the skills of the staff trained.
13.  The staff who were trained under the project belonged to all categories; junior, middle
and senior management. Training focussed more on academic courses and less emphasis was
given for exposure tours. In addition, the institutions were encouraged to select training
courses in the Region and also focussed on capacity building. All the institutions continue their
staff development programs using their own budget, which makes these training programs,
funded under PFDP sustainable in the long run. This reflects the emphasis the bank
management in Sri Lanka has placed on staff development.
14.  (b) Domestic Resource Mobilization (Annex 9): Two major studies were conducted to
improve the domestic resource mobilization capacity. One was for the development of portfolio
management and capacity building in the Employees Provident Fund and the other was the
automation of banking activities and government debt securities market. Central Bank of Sri
Lanka has taken a series of steps to develop the government securities market and this study
aimed at furthering these efforts. Both were successfully completed and the recommendations
iii



are being followed up by the Central Bank. The USAID provided technical assistance for
capital market development.
15.  (c) Portfolio Audits of State Commercial Banks (Annex 9): The portfolio audits of the
two state banks were completed on time despite the industrial action taken by the employees'
unions during this period. The portfolio audits showed that with proper provisioning for bad
loans, one of the state banks would require substantial capital infusion. It reflected the
magnitude of the problems faced by the two state banks and provided background material for
the MOFP and the CBSL to initiate a restructuring program in the state banks.
16.  (d) CleaNet: One of the objectives of the TA provided under PFDP was to support
implementation of environmental standards. With this in view, Pollution Control Abatement
Fund (PCAF) was established with funding from the KfW. In addition, the IDA also identified
during supervision that there was a need for creating a full service center on cleaner technology
providing assistance to private industrial entities to complement PCAF activities. This facility
has initiated the use of cleaner technology by the industrial sector and promoted strengthening
public and private sector partnership.
17.  Project Cost, Financing and Time 3chedules - The project was implemented
satisfactorily without major problems. The project cost was estimated to be US$153.6 million
at appraisal and the actual cost was US$153.0 million (Table 8A & 8B). PFDP was prepared,
signed and became effective as originally planned. The disbursements were well ahead of the
appraisal estimates in FY 95 & 96. As all the funds were committed on time, the project was
closed on the originally planned date.
18.  Project Sustainability - The overall commitment by the govemment for the industrial
sector continued despite the change of government in 1994 and private sector continued to be
the engine of growth. The internal efficiency and the strong financial performance of the PCIs
continued during the period under review. The CBSL improved its bank supervisory capacity,
which also strengthened the commercial banking sector especially during the East Asian crisis.
The sub projects visited during the implementation completion mission revealed that the
projects are financially viable and are planning expansion of their current operations. In
addition, the PFDP also has strengthened the enforcement of environmental standards in the
industrial sector. Despite weak compliance monitoring by the environmental regulatory
authorities, the industries themselves seem to have adopted cleaner technology and also have
introduced waste treatment facilities. In addition, due to the success of the project, other
international financiers have been interested in the financial sector. Most of the other donors
expect the IDA to take the lead in the financial sector reforms. However, the government's
reluctance to proceed with the privatization of the state banks and insurance companies has had
adverse implications on the financial sector development. The continued state dominance in
the banking and insurance sector raises concerns on the long term sustainability of the sector.
19.  II)A and Borrower Performance - At the identification, preparation and appraisal
stages the political scenario was more conducive for financial sector reforms. The IDA had
correctly identified the potential risks at the outset, which may affect the project. However, the
project was too dispersed and lacked focus and contained many disconnected activities.
Consequently, supervision was loaded with the task of following up scores of activities across
the entire economy (Para. 19-23), thus, losing focus on policy reforms.
20.  Initially the project was task managed by headquarters with support from the Colombo
Office. After the task management was transferred to the Colombo Office, the supervision
became more effective as there was close coordination between the implementing agencies and
the IDA. In addition, frequent monitoring alerted the Govemment when the progress slowed
iv



down. Especially with the close coordination with the PCIs, credit component was optimally
utilized. The TA programs were frequently discussed with the MOFP and the CBSL and in
consultation with the implementing agencies were modified to reflect the reform priorities and
financial requirements. In addition, the task manager always sought technical advice from
headquarters staff, which was promptly provided. The missions always demonstrated
flexibility in reflecting the country's priorities and also coordinated well with the other donors
and played the role of the financier of last resort while never relinquishing the mantle of taking
the lead in the financial sector policy dialogue. The IDA, however, could not suspend the
project as it would have affected the private sector banks.
21.  The increased importance placed by the IDA during the last two years on procurement
procedures indirectly slowed the procurement process of consultants. Major delays occurred in
procurement as the Government did not have a strong central unit to attend to procurement of
various consultants. As the security risk increased in the country after the Central Bank bomb
explosion in 1996, they found it extremely difficult to obtain the services of consultants of high
quality. Therefore, the implementing units had to spend a longer time searching for
consultants.
22.  The Borrower's performance was satisfactory on the credit component but was less than
satisfactory on the policy implementation (Para. 24-28). Financial sector reforms committee
was initially headed by the Secretary, MOFP till 1996 and was supported by a secretariat with
staff dedicated for reforms. Subsequently, this function was brought under the CBSL and the
Department of Financial Markets, in addition, to their routine work provided the secretarial
support. Therefore, the coordination and monitoring was not as effective as the earlier
institutional arrangement. Even though the project management of the TA component was
weak, financial management was very satisfactory and the audit reports for the project as well
as the PCIs were submitted on time.
23.  The administration unit (AU) of the National Development Bank (NDB) handled the
coordination of the credit component. The role of the AU was efficiently executed by the NDB
and quarterly reports were submitted regularly. They also maintained a comprehensive
database and administered the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund and coordinated the
CleaNet sub-project (Para. 71). In addition, there was excellent coordination with the IDA,
which helped, in optimal utilization of the PFDP funds.
24.  Future/Follow-up Operations Findings and Lessons Learned - Following from the
current financial and civil service reform programs, the MOFP and the CBSL have identified
the urgent need for pension reform (Para. 74-76). In addition to addressing the demographic
changes, the Government is keen to create a better investment climate for the contractual
savings funds. The Government has commenced discussions with the IDA to design an overall
reform program reflecting the priorities. The Bank has already responded positively to the
request by obtaining a PHRD Grant for pension reforms and is preparing an overall strategy for
pension reforms to be discussed with the Govemment.
25.  In addition, the Government has also requested the IDA to assist them in the second
phase of the financial reforms in further strengthening the regulatory environment while
providing an intermediation loan. The IDA responded that if the Government is prepared to
proceed with a private management contract for the two state banks, IDA would be happy to be
associated with the second phase of the reform agenda. CBSL has identified that they require
the services of consultants for several studies, even though, funding arrangements have not yet
been finalized. They are, (i) the preparation of legislation for supervision of merchant banks,
(ii) the formulation of a legal framework for licensing and supervision of money and foreign
exchange brokers, and (iii) OMO operations.
v



26.  The PFDP provided an opportunity for the Bank to reflect the effectiveness of using a
Financial Intermediation Loan (FIL) to address policy reforms in the financial sector. The
findings and lessons learnt (Para. 77-89) from PFDP for future Bank operations are summarized
below. On the positive side, PFDP demonstrated that the following measures contributed to
the success of the project:
Existence of an efficient administrative unit,
Supporting reforms through different governments,
*   Lead taken by the CBSL and MOFP in the policy dialogue,
*\ . IDA's continuous coordination with the senior staff of the CBSL and MOFP,
Awareness of the need for reform among all the financial sector policy makers as
well as senior officials in the financial sector institutions, and
*   Timely quarterly reviews.
27.   While on the negative side, the following deficiencies adversely affected the impact of
the project:
Lack of commitment by MOFP at the implementation stage,
Lack of a central coordinating unit in the Central Bank with representation from
MOFP for sector reforms,
Bureaucracy being too sensitive to the political environment,
Absence of an overall framework for financial sector,
Lack of coordination among departments within the same organization,
Inability to set up strong regulatory authorities to improve governance, and
.   Less leverage for reforms under a FIL.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 2484-CE)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) was a follow-up of seven
industrial/financial credit lines since 1979 from International Development Association (IDA),
totaling US$212.8 million. It was the first credit line to deviate from being directed to a selected
category within the industrial sector, specially as the IDA felt that Sri Lanka's financial sector had
developed adequate institutional capacity to allocate resources fairly efficiently. The total cost of
the project was US$153.0 million with IDA contributing US$60.Omillion. The balance was
provided by United Nations Agency for International Development (USAID), KfWD, participating
credit institutions (PCIs), entrepreneurs and the Government. The USAID and the KfW provided
funds under their bilateral lending programs even though at the appraisal stage they had agreed to
co-finance.
2.    The main project objectives were: (a) improving efficiency of financial intermediation by
supporting policy and regulatory reforms in the financial sector; (b) assisting domestic resource
mobilization for long term investment by stimulating the development of the local bond market; (c)
enabling private sector to respond to the changing economic enviromnent by providing investment
finance; and (d) helping deepening the financial system and strengthening the key players in the
financial sector.
3.    Project Components: To achieve the above project objectives, PFDP had identified the
following specific project components to be funded:
(a)   Improvements in Policy Framework: The project was expected to support wide
ranging reforrns in the policy and regulatory environment in the financial sector,
especially mobilization of domestic resources for investments through commercial
channels.
(b)   Investment Credit Component (IDA-US$57.5 million, PCIs and entrepreneurs -
US$81.6 million): This component was expected to provide funds to Participating
Credit Institutions (PCIs) for term loans to private enterprises, irrespective of their
size or sub-sector. The Government on lent funds directly to the PCIs, on a
variable rate at the Weighted Average Deposit Rate(AWDR)2. The project also
was intended to increase domestic resource mobilization capacity of PCIs by
financing only 60% of the loan amount. The project was also to create a Pollution
Control and Abatement Fund to help existing industries to comply with
environmental standards.
KfW- Kreditanstaltfur WiederauJbau
2 AWDR - Represents the weighted average of the interest rates paid to depositors by branches in the greater
Colombo area of domestic commercial banks (other than national savings bank) on interest bearing term
deposits, as issued weekly by the Central bank of Sri Lanka, calculated on the basis of the previous 26
week period.
1



(c)    Technical Assistance (TA) Component (IDA - US$2.5 million, USAID - US$7
million, KfW - US$5 million): The project was expected to provide assistance in
preparation and implementation of policy reforms including, (i) establishing a
viable domestic bond market, (ii) preparing the state-owned commercial banks for
restructuring and recapitalization, (iii) implementing the new accounting and
auditing standards, debt recovery legislation and strengthening the bank
supervision function of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), (iv) continuing to
upgrade the capabilities of PCIs, and (v) supporting implementation of
environmental standards by entrepreneurs, PCIs and regulatory agencies. The
USAID provided technical assistance for capital market development while the
KfW funded the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAF).
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.     The objectives of the PFDP conformed to the Country Assistance Strategy. When
extensive financial sector reforms were proposed in early 1 990s, there was political stability in the
country. At the outset of the project in 1993 and 1994, the draft legislation -- relating to
introduction of long term debt instruments, increasing the scope of bank supervision by the Central
Bank, increasing investments of National Savings Bank (NSB) and other institutional investors in
non-government paper -- were prepared by the financial sector reforms committee. This was done
in consultation with the stakeholders such as private and public sector financial institutions as well
as the industry to develop the long-term debt market (Annex 1). The legislations have assisted in
developing the debt market introducing debt instruments of longer term maturities, better
supervision of the banking sector by the Central Bank and increasing the ability of the banking
sector to mobilize resources in the domestic as well as international financial markets. However,
with the assassination of the incumbent President in 1993 and a series of parliamentary and
presidential elections and the eventual change of Government in 1994, the reform program was
delayed till 1995. Despite the change of Government, the Central Bank's and the Ministry of
Finance's focus of financial sector reforms, remained on improving the performance of the two
state banks and improving the regulatory framework for the financial sector, particularly, in the
domestic resource mobilization arena by continuing to provide the required legislative framework.
5.     The PFDP line of credit catered to the much needed investment capital for the corporate
sector. It complemented the Small and Medium Industries (SMI) IV Project which provided
financial resources mainly to the small and medium industries and also Asian Development Bank's
(ADB) Development Finance line of credit. The project could generate investments to the tune of
US$137.0 million in the industrial sector while providing additional employment opportunities for
12,184 during a period of six years.
6.    The technical assistance provided for the capacity building of the PCIs and the other
financial institutions has been found effective. All these institutions continue with their staff
development programs even after the close of the project, thus ensuring sustainability. In addition,
it is remarkable that while in most countries the Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) failed,
the two DFIs in Sri Lanka during the project, diversified their activities while maintaining the focus
on development finance and became premier financial institutions in the country. At the end of the
project both were functioning purely as private sector companies.
7.    The support in enforcing environmental regulations in the industrial sector, which
commenced under SMI IV, was continued under PFDP by enhancing pollution control and
abatement measures. In addition, the project also assisted in increasing awareness among
industrialists, the need to introduce cleaner technology, which would eventually reduce cost of
production. High level of environmental awareness by industries was evident during the site visits.
2



8.    During the implementation of the project, the main objectives were not changed.
However, the desired level of success in reforms could not be achieved as the government
commitment slackened during the implementation stage due to the fact that some of the reforms
were seen as politically sensitive measures. The financial sector reforrns were delayed but were
pursued at a slower pace without any backsliding. The MOFP and the CBSL failed to commence
on major restructuring program of the state banks to improve their financial performance. They
had only taken limited damage control measures to contain expansion and the continued state
dominance in the financial sector raises serious concerns about the long term sustainability of the
financial sector.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.    Factors not generally subject to Government Control: The Central Bank and the Ministry
of Finance and Planning (MOFP) were affected twice by the terrorist bomb explosions, one in 1996
and the other in 1997. These events severely affected the reform program as well as the technical
assistance program. In addition, the assassination of the incumbent President in 1993 and the
subsequent series of elections and the eventual change in Government in 1994, further delayed the
reform program. The severe power outages in 1996 also had an adverse impact on the industrial
sector and the disbursements and collections were affected slightly during 1997/98 (Table 4). The
conflict situation continued in the North and East and sporadic attacks in the main cities including
Colombo, affected the investment climate in the country.
10.   Factors subject to Government Control: There was overall commitment on the financial
sector policy reforms from the inception of the project specially as the reform program was based
on recommendations of the presidential commission on financial sector reforms. However, the
Government continued with deficit financing which lessened the ability of the pension funds to
diversify their portfolio. Despite the Government introducing a favorable regulatory environment
for the long-term debt market, the inability to maintain fiscal discipline adversely affected the
implementation capacity. However, there was lack of commitment on the part of the MOFP with
regard to the proposed insurance law despite extensive consultations with the stakeholders. In
addition, after 1995, the secretariat of the financial sector reforms committee was not as effective
as the previous one. After it was absorbed by the Central Bank, the functions got diluted with the
routine bank work and with the bomb explosion in 1996, the staff also got displaced. However,
most of the activities that came under the purview of the CBSL were effectively carried out
eventhough with delays while the work that came under the purview of the MOFP was not
effectively coordinated by the secretariat. In addition, the MOFP was unduly concerned of
possible bank employee trade union action and kept on deferring the decision to restructure the two
state banks.
I1.    Factors subject to the Implementation Agencies Control: There was no strong
institutional arrangement for the coordination of the technical assistance program. Therefore, the
IDA had to take the lead in initiating the TA activities except for PCI training. With the signing of
the performance agreements in 1993 and 1998 with the two state banks, more autonomy was vested
with the state bank management. However, there is little evidence that the management of both
banks exercising the autonomy they were granted under the agreements. The positive measures
such as compliance with branch rationalization and staff recruitment were taken as damage control
measures rather than proactively restructuring the banks to improve efficiency. The MOFP also
did not provide leadership to the reforms required in the insurance sector.
3



D. Project Sustainability
12.   Finance Sector Policy reforms: The overall commitment by the Government for the
industrial sector continued even after the change of Government and adequate funds were made
available for SMI lending specially with both IDA and ADB funds. In addition, the two state
banks financed SMI sector with their own resources and PFDP funds were channeled to the
corporate sector. Especially during 1993/1994, the tourist industry improved significantly and the
investments escalated in the services sector. The Government continued to consider the private
sector, the engine of growth. However, the Government's reluctance to proceed with the
privatization of the state banks and the insurance companies and the state dominance in these two
major sub sectors raise serious concerns on the long term sustainability of the financial sector.
13.   Participating Credit Institutions: The internal efficiency and the strong financial
performance of the participating private commercial banks and the two development financial
institutions continued during this period. In addition, the supervisory capacity of the Central Bank
was also strengthened. Eventhough during 1998/99 there was some concern over the perfonnance
of few domestic banks, the CBSL is following closely the developments in the banking sector and
certain measures have been recommended to arrest any further deterioration. Since 1998, some of
the private banks seemed to feel the lagged impact of the contagion effect of the East Asian crisis.
14.   Industrial Sector: The recent site visits (Annex 1 1) undertaken by the implementation
completion mission revealed, that except for one, all the projects visited would be sustainable in the
long run and also most of them are planning expansion of their current operations. In addition, the
project also has strengthened the enforcement of environmental standards in the industrial sector.
Despite weak compliance monitoring by the environmental regulatory authorities, the industries
themselves seem to have adopted cleaner technology and also they have introduced waste treatment
facilities.
15.   In addition, due to the success of the project, other international financiers have been
interested in the financial sector. However, most of the other donors expect the IDA to take the
lead in the financial sector reforms. Even the ADB and the OECF follow most of the tenns and
conditions of the IDA. However, the continued absence of IDA in an active role for a long period
might result in creating distortions in the financial sector. Unlike the IDA, other donors have a
tendency to fund ad-hoc TA sub projects in the financial sector without requiring the Government
to carry out reform measures.
16.   The Government has taken several progressive steps towards increasing investment in non-
governmental securities by the contractual savings funds3. This is supplemented by measures to
improve market oriented open market operations (Para. 31 & 34). The MOFP and the Central
Bank also took positive steps to introduce disclosure policies in the financial sector which will
improve the financial management, in not only the banking sector, but also in the corporate sector.
The required legal framework and the institutional arrangements are in place to ensure monitoring
compliance. The banking sector continue to improve the technical expertise of their staff in the
private as well as public sectors to ensure sustainability of this reform programs.
17.   In addition, the impact of improvement of debt recovery legislation has reflected in
increasing the recovery of bad loans by exercisingparate execution powers. The project and the
other donor-funded projects with their coordinated effort have been able to enhance the domestic
resource mobilization capacity of the financial institutions. The financial institutions have started
mobilizing resources from the financial market issuing corporate debentures. During the last two
3 Employees Provident Fund (EPF), Employees Trust Fund (ETF), Insurance companies and National
Savings Bank
4



years the corporate debentures of Rs. 3.9 billion have been raised in the market. In addition, the
issue of commercial paper (Rs. 8.3 billion in 1999 up to June, Rs. 16.5 billion in 1998 and Rs. 11.1
billion in 1997) too has increased significantly.
18.   In May 1997, ADB guaranteed a loan of US$55 million to National Development Bank
(NDB) for the SMI sector. Government signed an agreement with OECF for another loan of
US$46 million for small and micro enterprises. KfW has also granted DM 2 million for micro
credit to be channeled through the NGO system. In addition, NDB raised US$20 million for the
industrial sector on commercial terms from FMO, Netherlands Development Finance Company.
Another loan of US$22 million from the OECF was obtained by the NDB to top up the Pollution
Control and Abatement Fund. This facility extended the scope to existing as well as new
companies addressing pollution abatement techniques while the KfW provided DM 5 million also
for the PCAF in addition to the previous DM 5 million they had provided. Another US$1.2 million
had been made available from USAID for capital market development in addition to the initial
US$7.0 million.
E. IlDA's Performance
19.   At the identification, preparation and appraisal stage the political scenario was more
conducive for financial sector reform. The IDA had identified the potential risks, which may affect
the project but the project was too dispersed and lacked focus and contained many disconnected
activities. Consequently, supervision was loaded with the task of following up scores of activities
across the entire economy. Therefore, the identification and preparation of the project cannot be
considered satisfactory. (Table 1)
20.   IDA's identification of the project was consistent with the Government development
strategy. It was commendable that even with a change of Government and current ruling party
being a coalition of socialist parties, the MOFP and CBSL still continued with the proposed reform
program. It was also commendable that the senior bureaucrats, who led the reform program prior
to 1994, could convince successfully the new political leaders, the need for reform. Initially the
project was task managed by headquarters with support from the Colombo Office. After the task
management was transferred to the Colombo Office, the supervision became more effective as
there was close coordination between the implementing agencies and the IDA. In addition,
frequent monitoring alerted the Government when the progress slowed down. Especially with the
close coordination with the PCIs, credit component was optimally utilized with several rounds of
cancellations and subsequent replacements prior to the commitment deadline in March 1998 to
remove slow moving subprojects. This project demonstrated the difficulty in using a financial
intermediation loan as a vehicle for sector reforms as the suspension would have caused problems
for the private banks and investors. The IDA, however, sent a strong message to the Government
that unless Government makes a firm commitment and proceed with financial sector reforms at a
faster pace and minimize the role of the state in the financial sector, the IDA would limit its
financial sector operations to policy dialogue on sector reforms.
21.   In addition, the TA programs were frequently discussed with the MOFP and the Central
Bank and in consultation with them were modified to reflect the reform priorities and financial
requirements. With regard to the disbursement and implementation it was an effective mechanism.
Supervision was more effective from Colombo office as quick decisions on procurement could be
taken on time. In addition, the task manager always sought technical advice from headquarters
staff, which was promptly provided. The missions always demonstrated flexibility in reflecting the
country's priorities and also coordinated well with the other donors and played the role of the
financier of last resort while never relinquishing the mantle of taking a lead in the financial sector
policy dialogue. However, the Government perceived that the IDA' s interest in the country's
5



financial sector had lessened specially as the Bank did not frequently field high powered missions
during the last few years and made use of the annual meetings in Washington to discuss the
financial sector issues.
22.   The increased importance placed by the IDA during the last two years on procurement
procedures indirectly slowed the procurement process of consultants. Major delays occurred,
especially, as the Government did not have a strong central unit to attend to procurement of
consultancy services. As the security risk increased in the country after the Central Bank bomb
explosion in 1996, they found it extremely difficult to obtain the best services possible. Therefore,
the implementing units had to spend a longer time searching for consultants.
23.   Iii addition, the IDA worked very closely with the IMF to ensure that there was consistency
with the approach taken towards the financial sector reform. All the other donor agencies --- ADB,
SIDA and USAID --- followed the leadership provided by the IDA creating a consensus on the
reform program among the major donors.
F. Borrower Performance
24.   Financial sector reforms committee was initially headed by the Secretary, Ministry of
Finance and was supported by a secretariat with staff dedicated for reforms till 1996.
Subsequently, this function was brought under the Central Bank and the Department of Financial
Markets in CBSL, in addition to their routine work, provided the secretarial support. Therefore,
the coordination and monitoring was not as effective as the earlier institutional arrangement.
However, despite delays, the Governor and the Senior Deputy Governor of the Central Bank
coordinated the reform program. Some of the activities that came under the purview of the MOFP
had been disappointing as there was lack of ownership of the reform program especially in the
insurance and state bank restructuring. (Para. 49 & 50)
25.   The administration unit (AU) of the National Development Bank (NDB) handled the
coordination of the credit component. The role of the AU was efficiently executed by the NDB
and quarterly reports were submitted regularly. The quarterly reports were also forwarded to all
the PCIs for their information. They also maintained a comprehensive database and administered
the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund and coordinated the CleaNet sub-project (Para. 70). In
addition, there was excellent coordination with the IDA, which helped, in optimal utilization of the
PFDP funds. In addition, financial management of the project was satisfactory and all the audited
financial accounts of the PCIs and the audit report of the project were submitted on time.
26.   The lending proceeded well. The funds were committed on schedule and with close
supervision by the IDA, the undisbursed loans were cancelled and the PCIs were given the
opportunity to submit new applications, which increased the disbursement level. Of the eligible
PCIs, about 95% of the disbursements was handled through the DFIs as the commercial banks had
excess liquidity during the project period due to increased deposit mobilization.
27.   However, this project provided an opportunity for financial sector policy dialogue and the
missions' findings were well appreciated by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The
senior managers of both institutions as well as other public and private financial institutions were
cooperative in providing information and discussing the issues with the IDA missions. Also during
this period, despite the political resistance to reform, the senior management in these institutions
have commendably tried to proceed in the right direction.
6



28.   The PCIs continued to meet -with the requirements of eligibility criteria and the collection
performance of all the banks continued to be above the required minimum of 80% and all the PCIs
met the capital adequacy ratios.
G. Assessment of Outcome
Implementation Results of Policy Reforms (Attachment 1)
29.   Strengthening Monetary Policy and Domestic Resource Mobilization: The Monetary
Board approved a package of reforms in August 1995 to commence active market-based open
market operations and to develop the secondary market for government securities. In order to
introduce these measures, a series of amendments to legislation governing these activities were
introduced (Annex 1). The reforms addressed both short and long term debt instruments.
30.    Short-term debt instruments were made more market oriented, with the commencement of
publication of information relating to treasury bill auctions and the introduction of more
competitive bidding through the primary dealers. In addition, Non Bank Financial Institutions
were excluded from the inter-bank call money market activities to ensure a level playing field for
all participants.
31.   As agreed the CBSL established an open market operations division and also a committee
to implement the proposed measures introduced through legislation. Open Market operations are
being conducted on an increased scale and the CBSL is increasingly improving their daily liquidity
assessment system linking with the commercial banks.
32.    The most important step taken during the period under review was the introduction of
long-term treasury bonds commencing with the two year treasury bonds with fixed coupon rate of
interest in March 1997. These are market based and are permitted to be transferred by
endorsement. Since then, the CBSL has progressively introduced treasury bonds with longer-term
maturities reaching 6 years in 1999. This measure assisted in developing a medium term yield
curve and as a result the number and the volume of corporate debenture issues have also increased
significantly during the last two years (Rs. 3.9 Billion). By increasing issue of more market based
long term maturities, CBSL is planning to phase out rupee securities which however, had a the
stock of Rs. 255.3 billion as at end of August 1999. By improving the trading system of
government securities through dedicated primary dealers, the CBSL envisage promoting the
secondary market for debt instruments. In addition, the CBSL expects an active role by the
primary dealers in the debt securities market and intend to set up a primary dealer surveillance
system funded by the IDA during year 2000.
33.    CBSL has completed a feasibility study to automate the CBSL and inter bank transactions
in order to introduce a scripless trading system for government securities and set up Real Time
Gross Settlement Systems (RTGS). These measures were aimed at strengthening the open market
operations, improving the effectiveness of monetary instruments and the development of a
secondary market for government debt securities (Annex 9). The proposed system in addition to
quick settlement, would facilitate cheque clearing in districts outside Colombo. In addition, the
CBSL finds it difficult to issue bonds with longer-term maturities exceeding six years without
scripless trading. The expected foreign participation in government securities market would not be
possible with the current manual system.
34.   This will inevitably increase the volume of transactions and the fund transfer system will
significantly improve. At present due to the long transaction time taken, the transactions are
limited and create market distortions. In addition, the securities market has been confined to
7



Colombo. If the Central Bank expedite the automation of banking sector and scripless trading, the
market participants will also increase significantly.
35.    The Cabinet has already approved amendments to the Monetary Law Act to, (a) make
price stability the main objective of CBSL in order to avoid possible policy conflicts, (b) revise the
definition of money supply to take into account "broad money", (c) remove the maximum and
minimum limits on statutory reserve ratios, (d) provide more flexibility to the Monetary Board to
decide the basis for computation of the required reserves, (e) enable payment of interest on
reserves, and (f) enable imposition of reserve requirements on the financial liabilities other than
deposit liabilities. The Legal Draftsman is preparing the second draft and it is expected to be
submitted to the Parliament by end of 1999. However, as the legislative procedure takes a long
time it is likely to get postponed to the first quarter of 2000.
36.    The CBSL has promoted the setting up of a Credit Rating Agency(CRA) in collaboration
with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The Credit Rating Agency has been established
as a joint venture public company with a leading international rating agency in USA and other
international and local financial institutions. The office has been established and the CEO and the
key staff have been recruited and been given initial training overseas by their international
technical partner. This will assist in developing the debt market by servicing the investors and the
market expects an increase of foreign investor participation.
37.    Another significant step for domestic resource mobilization was the decision of the
Central Bank to diversify the Employees Provident Fund's (EPF) investment portfolio. A
consultant has prepared investment guidelines for the (EPF) and also the selection criteria for
external fund managers. In addition, the PFDP provided partial funding for the development of
internal portfolio management expertise and it is expected to be continued under the proposed
PHRD Preparation Grant for pension reforms. The EPF is in the process of implementing the
recommendations of the study. As the investment guidelines have been prepared, EPF intends to
continue further diversifying its investment portfolio. EPF has also embarked on a computerization
and modernization program in order to improve its operational efficiency and keep abreast of the
changing technological development which will bring better returns to the savers.
38.    In addition, proposals are being explored to amalgamate the EPF and Employees Trust
Fund (ETF) to minimize administration costs. The ETF is reportedly exploring possibilities of
converting the ETF to a pension fund and also annuitizing the payments. However, it would be
advisable to take this measure after careful study and also conducting a proper actuarial assessment
to ensure the sustainability of such a scheme. Measures are also being taken by the EPF to
eliminate double counting and eliminate a large number of dormant and multiple accounts once
Labor Department and the EPF complete the computerization exercise. In addition, in 1999, the
EPF has been able to absorb all administration costs by the generated capital gains from operations
in the secondary market for treasury bonds and equities. The EPF performance has been
impressive during the last few years and the Central Bank seems to be serious with the reform
agenda.
39.    The DFIs and the private domestic commercial banks continue to suffer from lack of low
cost funds. However the resource mobilization capacity of the banking sector has improved
significantly. The annual accounts for 1997 and 1998 reflect a significant increase in their deposit
base by 24.3% and 22.4% respectively. In addition, there were medium term debenture issues by
financial institutions to raise funds amounting to Rs. 3.9 billion during the last two years, which
were all over subscribed. Most of the banks argue that they have a mismatch of funds; short term
deposits which need to be matched with long-term investment needs. DFIs are facing the problem
of lack of funds specially as they are not deposit taking institutions, which had led them to
diversify their activities. However, with the drying up of multilateral funds on concessionary terms
8



the banks are exploring possibilities of using innovative financial instruments to be more
competitive in the financial sector.
Improving Efficiency in the Banking Sector
40.   Bank Supervision by Central Bank: The 1995 amendments to the Banking Act
strengthened the supervisory powers for the CBSL and extended supervision to specialized
licensed banks 'and incorporated all prudential requirements based on international standards.
CBSL continued its efforts in improving bank supervision especially in the light of the recent East
Asian financial crisis. Central Bank has improved the on-site and offsite supervision, making that a
primary function of the CBSL. By requiring financial disclosure polices, the CBSL has improved
the financial discipline of the banks and has addressed the issues in a more systematic manner to
avert any major crisis in the banking system. Central Bank is well aware of the need to monitor
foreign exchange exposure of the banking sector to avoid a similar problem faced by the East
Asian countries. Central Bank is taking proactive measures to ensure bringing foreign currency
banking units under the supervision of the CBSL. The avenues of communication between the
CBSL and banks have been remarkably strengthened by appointing compliance officers at the
commercial banks to ensure compliance in banking and other statutory requirements. In addition,
the CBSL is planning to introduce a deposit insurance scheme to provide a level playing field for
the private banks. Central Bank also proposes to tighten the loan loss provisioning to ensure the
financial viability of the banking sector.
41.   The bank supervision department staff is at present about 80 of which 50 are professional
staff. In mid 1998, setting up a faculty for bank supervision in the CBSL has intensified the
training of examiners. Three specialists with commercial banking and bank supervision experts
were recruited. During the project period the Central Bank had taken significant steps towards
strengthening the supervision capacity of the Central Bank and the Monetary Board has seen this as
one of the most important functions of the Central Bank. In view of the recent East Asian crisis the
Central Bank has identified the need to keep the foreign exchange exposure of the banks also under
close scrutiny.
42.    Performance of State Commercial Banks (SCBs): One of the main objectives of the
project was to down size the state banks through restructuring and eventual privatization. Due to
strong political resistance, the MOFP and the CBSL could not proceed with the privatization but
the share, in terms of total assets, deposits and advances of the state commercial banks, had
gradually declined.
43.    The SCBs accounted for 55% of the total commercial bank assets in 1998 compared with
64% in 1993. The share of the deposit base of the SCBs during the last 4 years has declined by
7.0% reaching 56.6% while the advances have declined by 9% reaching 53.3% in 1998 (Annex 3).
A notable feature is that the branch network of the state commercial banks has declined marginally
to 618 in 1998 from 620 in 1995 while the private domestic banks have increased the branch
network significantly by increasing the branches from 214 to 296 during the same period.
44.    Comparing the efficiency ratios (Annex 3) it was observed that the net interest margins of
the state banks (4.4%) were marginally higher than the private banks (4.1%) in 1998 while the
employee expenses were 2.5% for state banks while for the private domestic banks was 1.8% in
1998. Non-performing ratio in state banks was 17.3 % while in the private sector domestic banks it
reached 11.0%. The recent portfolio audits of the state banks revealed that this figure was much
higher reflecting the need to address this issue immediately. Total employees in the state
commercial banking sector was 20,732 while private banks had 10, 223 in 1998. It is notable that
4DFCC, NDB, NSB, SMIB, Pramuka, SANASA and 6 Regional Development Banks
9



the average employees per bank branch is 34 for state banks while the private sector had 35 in
1998. This is in the background of having a large internal security staff in the two state banks due
to the conflict in the country since the 1980s. However, it is creditable to note that the Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank with their close monitoring and supervision had been able to contain
the branch network and resist any political pressure for mass recruitment to the state commercial
banking sector despite a series of elections since the project commenced in 1993. This can be
attributed to the agreements signed with the two state banks and also the continuous supervision
and dialogue the MOFP and the CBSL had with the banks and IDA despite its failure to make the
two state banks more commercially viable.
45.    During 1993 and 1996 there had been two rounds of capital infusion by the Government in
terms of long term bonds; Rs. 23 billion and Rs. 20 billion respectively. Despite the inability of the
two state banks to comply with the targets set out in the two agreements, one in 1993 (Annex
4:Table 1) and another in 1998, the MOFP had not taken any serious remedial measures due to the
political instability in the country. As seen in the Annex 4: Table 2, Bank of Ceylon (BOC) failed
to reach the agreed targets on profits, return on assets and return on capital but achieved loan
recovery targets, staff and overhead costs. Peoples' Bank (PB) however has not achieved any of the
targets agreed except loan recovery for 1998. Non-performing loans has reached a significantly
high level and required provisioning would entail significant capital infusion.
46.    According to the CBSL evaluation report the Government had not issued any directives to
any of the two banks during 1998 and 1999. After an evaluation by a committee consisting of
CBSL and MOFP, both banks have been requested to adopt a uniform transfer pricing system.
Even though the loss making branches have been reduced none of the loss making branches were
closed due to political pressure.
47.    The Central Bank and MOFP have taken measures to bring in advisors to the two state
banks with international commercial banking experience and also the BOC will conduct a study to
explore the possibility of restructuring the bank and there is a likelihood of a management contract
for the state banks in the future. The IDA has offered assistance to the Government if the
Government is prepared to initiate a private management contract for the two state banks.
However, the continued state dominance in the banking sector will have an adverse impact on the
banking sector and raises serious concerns on the sustainability of the financial sector in the long
run.
48.   Improving Competitiveness in the Insurance Sector: Government has not been
consistent with the decision to privatize the two state insurance companies. At last in 1999 after a
long delay, a steering committee to restructure National Insurance Corporation (NIC) was set up
with representation from PERC, MOFP, NIC, CBSL which can be considered a significant step in
the right direction. On their recommendation, the Cabinet approved divesting up to 39% of NIC
and also there is no restriction on foreign investor participation. It was also reported that the
committee had initiated discussions with the employees of NIC to ensure their support for
restructuring. If this proves to be successful, the GOSL is likely to proceed with the divestment of
Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. too.
49.   Insurance Act: After the initial drafting of the new Insurance Law in 1996, the taskforce
was extremely slow in finalizing it. It has been reviewed by various stakeholders over the past four
years causing undue delay mainly due to lack of leadership provided by the MOFP. The proposed
amendments would improve regulatory framework, enable insurance companies to pursue more
diversified portfolio management, reduce market segmentation and increase competition. The draft
Law also provides for an autonomous regulatory authority for insurance. At present, the Insurance
Controller functions on a part time basis and is unable to obtain the required technical staff under
the present institutional structure. The Controller's office lack the capacity to regulate and
10



supervise the industry and cannot attract qualified staff in its present form. The agreed target date
of presenting the Insurance Bill to Parliament keeps getting postponed indefinitely. The industry
feel that the passage of the new Insurance Law would provide an opportunity to establish a strong
technical secretariat to supervise the industry. Recent missions of the World Bank who visited Sri
Lanka during April and also in June 1999 to assist the Finance Ministry in setting up a Regulatory
Authority for Private Pension Funds advised them that due to lack of qualified people in this field it
would be better to set up a single regulatory authority for both pension/provident funds and
insurance. Despite repeated assurance given by the MOFP during the last few years, the law has
not yet been enacted.
50.   Diversifying investment portfolio of Contractual Savings Institutions (CSls): The CSIs
were expected to diversify their investment portfolios by investing minimum previously agreed
amounts in non-government securities (Annex 5).
51.   EPF: At the commencement of the project it was proposed that the EPF Act should be
amended to permit the EPF to invest in non-government securities. There was resistance from the
trade unions. Subsequently, the CBSL managed to obtain a ruling from the Attorney General
confirming that the EPF Act provides for investment in non-government securities and decision
making powers are vested with the Monetary Board. EPF invested Rs. 300 million in 1995 and
about Rs. 712 million in DFCC and NDB long-term debentures in 1996. In addition, EPF invested
about Rs. 418 million in 1998 and Rs. 417.0 million in 1999.
52.   ETF: Setting up the ETF was to increase share ownership of the employees in private
companies. However, due to lack of fund management capabilities of the ETF board of
management, returns on investments had not been better than the EPF as most of the funds were
invested in government securities.
53.   NSB: According to the NSB Act 60% of their investment should be in government
securities which allow them to invest up to 40% in non-government securities. The investments in
non-government securities have gone up from 11.1% in 1993 to 19. 4% in 1998.
54.   Insurance: Both insurance companies' investment in the non-government securities have
been in the region of 35-56% during 1993-98.
55.   The contractual savings institutions seem to lack fund management expertise and hence the
investments are made for short-term gains. Either in-house fund management capacity needs to be
enhanced or experienced external fund managers should manage the funds with a proper
surveillance system in place. This is the approach EPF is taking presently with regard to portfolio
management and other institutions will also need to follow their strategy, which will provide an
impetus to the capital and debt market. In addition, the fund management of the CSIs should be
insulated from any external pressure.
56.   Better Accounting andAuditing Standards: Accounting and Auditing Standards Act was
passed in 1995 which provides for Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) to
legally enforce accounting standards adopted by ICASL. Law provides for an accounting and
auditing standards committee whose task is to recommend to ICASL the adoption of standards. It
also mandates the Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board (AASMB) to monitor
compliance with the standards. Both committees have been appointed and the AASMB was
constituted in January 1997. In 1999 February, all the standards were gazetted and all the
companies listed or specified in the regulations were required to comply with the standards for the
annual audits of 1999. The secretariat of the AASMB was constituted after some delay but still has
a skeleton staff. However, the effectiveness of monitoring compliance by this institution is yet to
be seen as they have not yet commenced official monitoring. They have already prepared the
11



procedures for compliance monitoring. In'addition, both Central Bank and the Securities Exchange
Commission (SEC) require the banks and listed companies respectively to follow the gazetted
accounting standards to in the corporate and financial sectors. It is important that staff of
regulatory authorities be compensated adequately if they are to function effectively. If the
government does not act to provide adequate compensation, it will hamper not only the recruitment
of qualified and competent staff for AASMB but also for all the other existing and proposed
regulatory authorities. These measures will invariably improve corporate governance.
57.   Taxation Incentives for Financial Instruments: Announcements were made in the 1998
and 1999 budgets to reduce taxation of the financial instruments to develop the capital and debt
markets. The removal of most of the taxes on debt instruments helped the creation of a level
playing field for both debt and the equity markets. This has been evident in the increase of
corporate debenture issues by financial institutions in 1998 and 1999.
58.   Implementation Results of the Credit Component: This was the first of a series of
credit lines made available to the industrial sector as IDA was moving away from directed credit
and the funds were on-lent by the GOSL directly to PCIs, on a variable basis at the Average
Weighted Deposit rate(AWDR). AWDR was selected as a reference rate specially to reflect the
average cost of funds in the absence of a long-term yield curve.
59.    By March 31, 1998, the credit component was fully committed; (68% above free limit; the
average loan size was about Rs. 8.8 million). The current disbursements amounted to US$54.6
million or 96% of the approved amount. Although the PCIs included three commercial banks and
the two DFIs, the DFIs accounted for 95% of the total commitments (NDB 46%, DFCC 49%). The
private banks' liquidity position was favorable with the increase in deposit mobilization and also
due to a significant reduction in the Central Bank's statutory reserve requirements. According to
the number of subloans approved, DFCC accounted for 62% while the NDB accounted for 33%
(Annex 6: Tablel). The project assisted in generating capital investment of US$137.1 million in
the industrial sector while the total employment generated was approximately 12,184.
60.    The metal, chemical and plastic sub-sector led the lending portfolio (20.7%) under the
PFDP followed by the services sector (17.5%), hotel sector (16.0%), textiles and garments (11.6%)
and rubber and leather (9%) (Annex 6 - Table 2). This was mainly due to the availability of other
credit lines from IDA and Asian Development Bank (ADB) during the initial period. At the later
stages except for the DFIs other banks had excess liquidity with the slump in the stock market as
well as with the reduction in reserve requirements of commercial banks by the Central Bank. Of
the approved sub-loans 80% was concentrated in Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha districts
followed by 11.2% in Kandy and Matale, 3.4% in Galle and 3.2% in Anuradhapura. (Annex 6-
Table 3.). The continuing ethnic conflict and inadequate physical and economic infrastructure
outside the western province contributes to this high concentration. Same trend has been reflected
in other lines of credit as well. In addition, it'has also been reported that the companies find it
difficult to attract professionals out of the Western Province due to lack of infrastructure facilities.
61.    The textiles sector led the employment generation with 31 % followed by Metal, Chemical
sector with 18%, services with 12%, rubber and leather with 10% and hotels with 9%. The
geographical distribution of employment creation almost reflected the same trend except for Galle
where employment generation was significantly high with 11 % compared to the credit
disbursement of 3.4%. (Annex 6: Table 2 & 3 )
62.    Most of the credit funds were committed ahead of schedule. In addition, with the
Colombo office and NDB's effective monitoring, the undisbursed loans were cancelled several
times in consultation with the PCIs and they were requested to submit new applications, which
improved the level of utilization of the credit.
12



63.    Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAF) : PCAF was a fund established to
provide investment funds at low cost to industrial enterprises for waste minimization, resource
recovery, pollution control and abatement. This component was originally to be co-financed by the
Government of Netherland. However, their assistance program was pruned down and KfW agreed
with the government to co-finance PCAF. This was available for industrial enterprises established
before January 1995. In 1994 by law, all the new institutions were required to obtain
environmental protection licenses from the Central Environmental Authority. Therefore, on the
premise that all new industries would ensure compliance with environmental standards at the outset
itself, the existing industries were provided with financial assistance at zero real interest rates to
ensure pollution control and abatement.
64.    Initially KfW, provided GOSL with US$5.0 million for the PCAF which NDB
administered on behalf of the GOSL. The fund became operative in April 1995 and was fully
committed (Rs. 331.4 million for 88 projects). Of the total projects, they are distributed evenly
among all sectors; textiles, food and beverages, agro-industries and fisheries, rubber, plastic and
leather and hotel sector (Annex 7-Table 1). Of these, 52% were located in Colombo, Gampaha and
Kalutara while the other significant area was Puttalam where prawn farms were concentrated
(Annex 7-Table 2). In addition, KFW provided an additional US$3.5 million for the PCAF.
Another credit line of US$22.0 million has been signed up by the OECF called "E-friends". The
scope of the OECF project is broader than the PCAF. In addition, to the new projects they have
also included energy conservation. The PFDP;s involvement in environmental subprojects
generated interest of other donors as well.
65.    Implementation Results of the TA Component: The TA component was marginally
satisfactory as both the MOFP and the Central Bank took more time than necessary to initiate the
studies which were background papers for some of the proposed reforms. With the significant
depreciation of the dollar against the SDR, the amount available for TA was substantially higher
than the original allocation. The TA component was also fully committed and fully disbursed by
the close of the project. This was mainly due to the close coordination, the IDA had with the
implementing agencies, especially the Central Bank and National Development Bank. In addition,
the missions closely monitored the progress and ensured that the identified studies were prioritized
and also ensured that proper procurement procedures were followed. Most of the studies had to be
postponed as the bomb explosion in 1996 adversely affected the Central Bank reform activities.
Some of the staff who were involved in those activities were killed or badly injured. With the
dislocation of the Central Bank the work could not be continued on a normal scale. (Annex 8 -
Table 1)
66.    Capacity Building of PCIs and otherfi-nancial sector institutions: (US$921,232) The
four participating credit agencies, NDB, DFCC, Sampath Bank and Hatton National Bank staff
participated in overseas training programs. In addition, Harvard University conducted two training
programs on project appraisal which were organized by the two DFIs. In total, 198 PCI staff were
trained in various aspects of banking such as credit management, financial management, treasury
management, environment appraisal and project rehabilitation (Annex 8 - Table 2). The Harvard
courses on project appraisal that were held in the country trained about 70 PCI staff and the
organizers felt that it was a cost effective way of providing high quality training to a large number.
The participants also have reported that the courses were useful and helped in enhancing their
knowledge. In addition, international training was provided for staff in the Ministry of Finance,
Institute of Policy Studies, Central Bank and the Inland Revenue Department. The training courses
were approved on the basis of relevance to the institution and also to suit the skills of the staff
trained.
67.    The staff who had been trained were junior, middle and senior management. Training
focussed more on academic courses and less emphasis was given for exposure tours. In addition,
13



the institutions were encouraged to select training courses in the region and also focused on
capacity building. All the institutions continue their staff development programs using their own
budget, which makes these training programs, funded under PFDP sustainable in the long run.
This reflects the emphasis the bank management in Sri Lanka has placed on staff development.
68.    Domestic Resource Mobilization ( Annex 9): Most of the technical assistance came from
the U SAID for the development of debt market in the form of consultants. Under the USAID
Financial Markets project, technical assistance was provided for ICASL, CSE, SEC and CBSL to,
(i) improve quality of capital market information, (ii) draft legislation for long term debt
instruments, (iii) design a computerized system for bank supervision, (iv) improve analytical
capability of market participants by conducting Chartered Financial Analysts programs, and (v)
capacity building. Some of the draft legislation relating to developing domestic resource
mobilization were supported through these technical assistance programs. Under the IDA
Technical assistance component two major studies were carried out. One was for the development
of portfolio management and capacity building of the Employees Provident Fund and the other was
the automation of banking activities and government debt securities market. The Central Bank has
taken series of steps to develop the government securities market and this study aimed at furthering
these efforts. Both were successfully completed and the recommendations are being followed by
the Central Bank.
69.    Portfolio Audits of State Commercial Banks (Annex 9): The portfolio audits of the two
state banks were completed on time despite the industrial action taken by the employees' trade
unions during this period. The portfolio audits show that with proper provisioning for bad loans,
one of thie state banks would require capital infusion. In order to improve the management
capacity, the Ministry of Finance has advertised for management advisors with international
commercial banking experience to assist the two state banks. The MOFP is yet to launch a major
restructuring programs for the two state banks and raises concerns on the financial viability of these
institutions which will have adverse implications on the overall banking sector.
70.    CleaNet: One of the objectives of the TA provided under PFDP was to support
implementation of environmental standards. With this in view the PCAF was established with co-
financing. In addition, the IDA also identified during supervision that there was a need for creating
a full service center on cleaner technology providing assistance to private industrial entities to
complement PCAF activities. The CleaNet is to assist clients to identify the most cost effective
option for meeting environmental regulations and improving production efficiency through
clearing house and information brokering, networking and training, facilitating pollution
prevention audits and eventually promoting waste exchange among industrial units. The main
activities undertaken were: (a) Training: Training was provided for the implementing agencies to
familiarize with the management and networking systems required for an information
clearinghouse function and attended international seminars, (b) Public awareness: Both CCC and
ITI engaged in advertising to draw attention of the industrialists to the availability of this facility
through different forms of media. (c) Outreach: The function was to widen the out reach, which
was successfully accomplished by the project unit.
71.    Impact of the CleaNet activities: The Internet connections provided by the CleaNet
signaled the genesis of virtual outreach activities. Clients could request information in electronic
form. The envisaged waste exchange program was also launched in cyberspace. CleaNet is well
equipped to facilitate potential waste exchange. The training provided under the CleaNet for staff
of the implementing agencies provided opportunities to ascertain the positive and negative aspects
of this facility in other countries. Visits to other countries reveal that without external support this
activity cannot be sustained and therefore the CleaNet focussed on revenue generating activities
such as workshops and seminars. The CleaNet also has established international links with
databases. The CCC has also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Confederation of
14



Indian Industry (CII) to facilitate information and training and would be able to facilitate cost-
effective Indian technology to Sri Lankan industries. A list of sources of audio visuals on cleaner
production case studies, clean technology data bases, a comprehensive listing of internet resources
have been compiled for use of industrialists.
72.    The outreach activities have created a keen awareness among the industrialists and it is
evident from the inquiries received by the CCC. Also through increased coordination the clients
are informed of the PCAF facilities. It is evident that the two institutions have been able to reach
the industrialists and have achieved the objectives of this sub project. In addition, the business
manager has been absorbed into the CCC and also the ITI continue these activities as part of their
work plan which show the commitment of these two institutions in improving environmental
standards of the industrial sector in the country. The project has been able to create a core group of
staff in both these institutions who will continue with the functions after the close of this project.
They have created a website to disseminate information on cleaner technology. Both CleaNet and
PCAF had promoted the industries to be more self regulated in pollution control and created an
awareness for adopting cleaner technology projects.
73.    With the close of the PFDP CleaNet has requested funds from the Environmental Action 1
Project funded by IDA. In keeping with the original scope of work to become a full service center
for private industries, CleaNet is expected to design and deliver activities in the following areas:
(a)  Environmental Policy Services : to facilitate industry representation on various
policy-making fora of the government.
(b)  Training and Advisory Services : to continue with one-on-one advisory services and
continue with training seminars.
(c)  Information Dissemination and Outreach Services: to continue with strengthening
the databases, publications, and CleaNet newsletter.
(d)  Information and Clean Technology Brokering Services : to facilitate technology
transfer to business entities and act as a middleman to assist industries contacting
possible suppliers of clean technology.
(e)  Facilitation of Pollution Prevention and Audits: Actively promote the benefits of
cleaner production through training and awareness programs.
(f)   Waste Exchange Program : Facilitate waste exchange by industrialists.
H. Future Operations
74.    Following from the current financial and civil service reforn programs, the MOFP and the
CBSL have identified the urgent need for pension reforms. In addition to addressing the
demographic changes the Government is keen to create a better investment climate for the
contractual funds. The Government has commenced discussions with the IDA to design an overall
reform program reflecting the priorities. The Bank has already responded positively to the request
by obtaining a PHRD Grant for the pension reforms and is preparing an overall strategy for pension
reform to be discussed with the Government.
75.    In addition, the Government also has requested the IDA to assist them in the second phase
of the financial reforms in further strengthening the regulatory environment while providing an
intermediation loan. The Bank responded that if the Government was prepared to proceed with a
private management contract for the two state banks, the IDA would be happy to be associated with
the second phase of the reform agenda.
76.    The CBSL has identified that they require the services of consultants for several studies
eventhough, funding arrangements have not been finalized. The areas are: (i) the preparation of
15



legislation for supervision of merchant banks, (ii) the formulation of a legal framework for
licensing and supervision of money and foreign exchange brokers, and (iii) assisting OMO
operations.
I. Key Lessons Learned
77.    EfficientAdministrative Unit: Setting up an efficient administrative unit(AU) made a
very significant contribution to the success of the project. This unit has been identified not only by
the IDA but also by other donors such as ADB, KfW and OECF as the AU to execute their
projects.
78.    Supporting Reforms through different governments - If IDA can identify champions
for "reforms" in the bureaucracy, reform programs are sustainable even through different political
regimes.
79.    Lead taken by the CBSL and MOFP in the Policy Dialogue: In the areas where political
resistance was less, these two institutions took progressive steps and also managed to keep the
reform program on track.
80.    IDA's continuous coordination with the senior staff of the CBSL and MOFP: It
provided an opportunity for IDA to bring to the notice of the senior policy makers the issues
relating to the slow progress in the financial sector.
81.    Awareness of the needfor reform among all the financial sector policy makers as well
as officials in the financial sector institutions : There was enthusiasm on the part of the senior
management on policy issues. In addition, the officials of the CBSL and few senior officials of the
MOFP were aware of the need and made every effort to implement the reform measures despite
political resistance.
82.    Timely Quarterly Reviews: The regular quarterly reviews enabled the credit funds to be
disbursed effectively. This is a practice the IDA needs to replicate in all projects. This not only
helped in better supervision but also the institution became identified with the project. In addition,
there was capacity building in project management.
83.    Lack of Commitment by MOFP at the implementation stage: The decision making
process in the MOFP was rather slow which affected the reform program. In addition the policy
makers did not adequately impress upon the political leaders the need for reform measures in the
state banks. That was mainly due to the absence of regular meetings by the financial sector reform
committee. Despite the fact that MOFP came under the direct purview of the President, the
Financial Sector Reform Committee did not make that an opportunity to forge ahead with the
reform program.
84.    Lack of a Central Coordinating Unit in the Central Bank with representation from
MOFP: At the inception of the project the secretariat was headed by senior well accepted officials
in the financial sector. However, with the transfer of the secretarial work to the Central Bank, even
minor issues had to be cleared with the top management of the CBSL. In addition, the CBSL
believed that they had no mandate to coordinate reform measures outside the CBSL. Therefore, in
future IDA should require that the government set up a strong full time coordinating unit to ensure
effective follow-up.
85.    Bureaucracy being too sensitive to the political environment: The MOFP and the CBSL
could have prepared technical papers to convince the political leaders the need for reform in many
16



sectors. Therefore, the financial sector reform committee should periodically keep the cabinet and
parliament informed of the reform agenda.
86.    Absence of a Framework for Financial Sector: Due to the absence of a reforrn
framework, the Government had the tendency to approach reforms in an ad-hoc manner whichever
they believed were politically feasible. Hence, some of the activities, which had no strong
ownership by implementing agencies, were not pursued eventhough they played a major role in the
overall program such as insurance.
87.    Lack of Coordination among Departments within the Same Organization : This is a
weakness in Sri Lanka in general. However, lack of coordination also created resistance from
different departments of the same organization. It would have been more effective if the staff of
the implementing institutions were well briefed of the overall financial sector development strategy
and what their specific role was.
88.   Inability to set up Strong Regulatory Authorities to improve Governance: The
Government's inability to offer adequate compensation for staff of the regulatory authorities
hamper establishment of strong regulatory authorities to improve good governance.
89.   Project Leverage small but ownership by reformers was strong although diminished over
time: This project reflected that the difficulty of using a financial intermediation loan as a vehicle
for sector reforms. If the project funds were suspended the private sector banks and investors
would have been affected.
17



Attachment 1
Implementation of Policy Measures Agreed at Negotiations
Agreed Conditions                           Reform measures taken                            Compliance             Remarks
Rating
Improve domestic       The Monetary Board approved a package of reforms in August 1995 to    Legal framework
resource mobilization  commence active market-based open market operations and to develop the  - satisfactory.
secondary market for govermnent securities. Measures included closure of the
secondary treasury bill window and repurchase window, commencement of open
market operations at market rates, activating the bank rate, exclusion of non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) from inter-bank call money market and granting
permission for non-bank primary dealers to maintain accounts at the CBSL for
the purpose of settling securities transactions.
Increase market        Since May 1995, CBSL has been publishing the maturity structure of the  Marginally     The Central Bank was
orientation of short term   Treasury Bills at each auction on a weekly basis together with the average yield   satisfactory  cautious implementing as
debt instruments      rates to make the short term debt instruments more market oriented. Competitive         they did not have the
bidding by captive sources such as National Savings Bank (NSB) and                     expertise. In addition, the
Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) commenced in May 1995. The captive                     bomb explosion and the re-
sources were phased out from direct bidding to bidding through the primary             location of the bank also
dealer system. In addition, non-bank financial institutions were excluded from         had an adverse impact on
the inter-bank call money market activities to ensure a level playing field for all    the performance.
participants.
To ensure that the rules governing OMO operations are legally enforceable the
guidelines for open market operations certain regulations are being drawn up by
the Central Bank. Regulations relating to OMO for outright sales, purchases,
repurchase and reverse repurchase of Treasury bills and bonds and CBSL
securities are being currently drafted by the CBSL and are expected to be
gazetted in early 2000. In the interim, the CBSL has re-introduced the reverse
repurchase facility for treasury bills and bonds for commercial banks and
primary dealers from November 1998 at a pre-determined rate. The secondary
treasury bill window and repurchase window at pre-determined rates will be
18



Agreed Conditions                             Reform measures taken                               Compliance               Remarks
Rating
replaced when market oriented OMO commences. The bank rate has also been
activated as informed earlier.
Introduce long terni debt  The CBSL publishes the treasury calendar for the treasury bonds, every quarter    Satisfactory
instruments and improve  in advance, to provide market information for the primary dealers. During 1997
the secondary debt      the government had issued Rs. 10 billion worth of treasury bonds, mostly two-
market for government    year bonds. Treasury bonds to the tune of Rs. 39.0 billion were issued in 1998
securities              and about Rs. 67.5 billion would be issued by end of 1999 of which Rs.4. billion
would be with 5 year maturities. Six-year treasury bonds were issued in
September 1999 for the first time. CBSL is also taking measures to expand the
volume of treasury bonds to match the rate at which rupee securities are maturing
and eventually the rupee securities will be phased out. However, at the moment
the stock of rupee securities amounts to Rs. 255.3 billion as at end of August
1999.
The CBSL has approved accepting treasury bonds as collaterals for reverse
repurchase which promotes developing the secondary market for the long-term
government securities. In order to enforce requirements for creating a market
and specifying a minimum level of participation in the primary auctions and
secondary markets, the public debt department has issued guidelines on
minimum level of participation for primary dealers in treasury bill and bond
auctions, which are being monitored continuously. Inactive primary dealers are
being de-listed.
Primary dealers have formed an association (PDA). The CBSL requires the
primary dealers to set up their own separate company, which will develop the
government debt securities market; primary and secondary. They are to be
dedicated only to trading in government securities. At present most of them are
commercial banks and there is conflict of interest in promoting debt instruments.
At present, CBSL has a stock of Rs. 200 Billion worth of short and long termn
government securities for trading. However, in the long run, the primary dealers
should also be permitted to trade corporate bonds as well to develop the
secondary market. In addition, the primary dealers are in the process of
_   preparing a code of conduct. A study on primary dealer surveillance was
19



Agreed Conditions                             Reform measures taken                              Compliance              Remarks
Rating
expected to commence in September 1999 but has been postponed due to the
non-availability of some of the consultants proposed. However, CBSL is keen to
set up a surveillance system to monitor the primary dealers as they play a major
role in government securities market. Therefore, this study is an integral part of
the main reform program and the development of the debt market. A private
company has developed a trade matching system for the primary dealers, which
will be purchased by them, once the new companies are formalized.
Consultants assisted the CBSL to design a system and drawing up technical
specifications for hardware and software in order to set up a scripless securities
settlement system and electronic fund transfer system. However, the CBSL feels
that the current volume of transactions is not sufficient to justify initial
investment that is required. Therefore, the CBSL is exploring other options.
Improving Bank          The following measures have been taken:                                 Satisfactory
supervision capacity
  Preparation of on-site supervision manual in 1997 with the assistance of an
international consultant.
*  In order to introduce better accounting standards in the banking sector, a
revised prescribed format for preparation and publication of annual accounts
of Licensed Commercial Banks (LCBs) --- incorporating Sri Lanka
Accounting Standard No 23 --- has been made operative since January 1998.
An accounting format is being designed for Licensed Specialized Banks
(LSBs) who would be made applicable from the financial year 1999.
*  In order to strengthen off-site surveillance of LCBs, seven new reporting
formats --- relating to non-performing advances, classified advances,
investments in shares, accommodation to directors and close relatives,
accommodation to companies in which directors have a substantial interest,
share ownership of banks, and returned cheques and post dated cheques
accepted as securities --- were issued in December 1997 and have been
operative since April 1998.
20



Agreed Conditions                           Reform measures taken                             Compliance              Remarks
Rating
*  Nineteen directives relating to prudential requirements have been issued to
the Licensed Specialized Banks.
*  To increase public disclosure of financial data relating to the LCBs, formats
were designed and instructions were issued to LCBs to publish in the press
their annual audited accounts and half yearly accounts beginning from
December 1998 and is in operation. It is proposed to extend these
requirements to the LSBs as well.
*  CBSL approved and compiled a panel of auditors for conducting bank audits
in May 1998. In addition, auditing guidelines have been issued to external
auditors. The banks are meeting the stipulated requirements.
*  The banks were requested by CBSL in September 1998 to appoint
compliance officers at a senior level to ensure compliance in respect of
banking and other statutory requirements. All LCBs have appointed
compliance officers and LSBs. Avenues of communications have improved
significantly and the Central Bank has planned a seminar to get a feed back
from all the compliance officers during the third quarter of 1999.
*  CBSL issued rules and regulations on pawn broking for commercial banks in
September 1998.
*  In October 1998, CBSL revised regulations relating to ownership of banks
increasing the maximum level to 25% for promoters and 20% for a company
and its aggregates.
*  Consultants funded by SIDA completed a feasibility study for bank
supervision including upgrading the regulatory mechanism, supervisory
capacity and staff development. USAID consultants are helping the CSBL
to develop a software package to facilitate data processing for off-site
surveillance for LCBs. The first phase has been completed with the
automation of 14 reporting formats. It is proposed to reactivate this program
21



Agreed Conditions                           Reform measures taken                             Compliance              Remarks
Rating
under the second phase in collaboration with the SIDA consultants. The
Central Bank requires the consultants to computerize all formats and also
consolidate and streamline the formats. However, with the Y2K remedial
activities being given high priority this is getting delayed.
*  A scheme, for bringing Foreign Currency Banking Units' (FCBU)
operations under the Banking Act, has been finalized and will be gazetted
before the end of 1999. A policy paper on the applicability of the provisions
of the Banking Act and Monetary Law Act (MLA) and issues relating to the
introduction of prudential regulations for FCBUs is under discussion.
Monitoring banks' foreign exposure is considered high priority in Central
Bank's agenda following the recent East Asian crisis.
*  Bank Supervision Department (BSD) prepared formats for monitoring the
foreign exchange exposure of banks. These formats were discussed with the
banks, pilot data are being collected on a 3-month trial basis and once these
data are evaluated final formats will be introduced to the banks. In addition,
the Central Bank will also issue routine guidelines to the banks before the
end of 1999.
*  The draft amendments to the Banking Act relating to licensing procedures,
revocation of licenses, fit and proper test for bank management, appointment
and removal of bank directors and senior management, merger of banks,
cease and desist orders, liquidation and closure of banks will be forwarded to
the legal authorities. The draft amendments are expected to be presented to
the Cabinet before the end of 1999.
*  An USAID consultant has completed a feasibility study for setting up a
mandatory deposit insurance scheme for all commercial banks. The ensuing
revisions made by the consultants are being reviewed. The CBSL expects to
implement a mandatory deposit insurance scheme once the action plans has
been prepared which may take more than a year and the scheme is likely to
be operative by during the year 2001.
22



Agreed Conditions                           Reform measures taken                             Compliance              Remarks
Rating
Create a level playing  *  CBSL also proposes to tighten prudential guidelines relating to loan loss  Unsatisfactory  The Insurance task force
field for the Insurance    provisioning in line with international practice. Draft the new insurance law        and the MOFP follow till
sector                     to set up a regulatory authority.                                                    recently after the initial draft
stage.
Restructure and privatize  Setting up a committee to initiate privatization of the two state enterprises  Unsatisfactory  This was mainly due to
the two state banks    Recapitalization of the banks in 1993 and 1996                                           political resistance. The
Signing of the Performance Agreements in 1993                                           bureaucracy could not
Signing of the performance Agreements in 1998                                           convince the political
Curtailing Treasury guarantee to state enterprises                                      leaders on this issue. Only
damage control measures
were taken.
Improve Accounting and  Conducting annual financial audits by reputed international accounting firms  Marginally  Delay in gazetting the
Auditing standards     Conducting diagnostic studies of the two state banks                   Satisfactory      accounting and auditing
Enactment of the Accounting and Accounting standards Monitoring Board Bill              standards and setting up the
Gazetting of all the accounting and auditing standards                                  AASMB delayed the
Establishing the AASMB for compliance monitoring                                        compliance monitoring .
Central Bank requiring disclosure of audited accounts by the banks from 1998
Securities exchange Commission requires all listed companies to comply with
the accounting and auditing standards from 1999
23



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                        D                                F D               z
Sector Policies             [:                                         D                 []
Financial Objectives                                  D 0              0
Institutional Development            z                                 L                 [II
Physical Objectives                                                    LI                LI
Poverty Reduction                    [               Cl                L                 L
Gender Issues                        L               L                  ]                [
Other Social Objectives              L               L                 L                 L
Environmental Objectives                                               LI                LI
Public Sector Management             L                                                   L I
Private Sector Development           z                                 L                 L I
Other (specify)                      L               L                 LI                FI
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
zOO
C. Bank Performance                      .ihi
satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                       :1                       0 I
Preparation Assistance              []                                                   L 
Appraisal                           [                                                    [ Cl
Supervision                         L                                                    LI
D. Borrower Performance              Higy
satisfactory              Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                           L]                         I                          3
Implementation                       El                         EL 
Covenant Compliance                    I                        z                         L
Operation (if applicable)                                       LI                        z
E. Assessment of Outcome               Higbly                                              Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
24



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                                         Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Small and Medium Industries    Promote private industrial development focusing on SMI's  6/1979  Closed on
Pro. (SMI-I) US$16 million     assistance through addressing constraints hindering their rapid     06/30/85
Credit 942-CE                  growth in order to increase their contribution to employment
generation, export expansion, and economic growth.
2. Second Small and Medium     To support and expand on the SMI -I objectives.         10/1981     Closed on
Industries Pro.(SMI-II)                                                                            12/31/87
US$28 million
Credit 1182-CE
3.Industrial Development Project  Provide term credit through DFIs to assist in strengthening the    7/1983  Closed on
(IDP-I) US$25 million          system of industrial financing, assist in trade and industrial      09/30/88
Credit 1401 -CE                reforms, and provide technical assistance to improve selected
PMEs.
4. Second Industrial           Complement previous and on-going industrial sector operations;  5/1986  Closed on
Development Project (IDP-II)    to provide credit through banking system to medium - and           06/30/94
US$20 million                  large-scale private industrial enterprises, support                 one
Credit 1692 - CE               implementation of GOSL's policy reforms and institutional           extension
strengthening.                                                      of 6 months
5. Third Small and medium      Complement and expand previous industrial sector operations  12/1987    Closed on
Industrial Project (SMI-III)   by: (i) providing credit to the SMI private manufacturing           06/30/93
US$20 million                  enterprises; and (ii) make a further contribution to policy reform
Credit 1860 - CE               and institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff
administration, export promotion and financial sector
operations.
6. Third Industrial Development   Provide credit through banking system to medium and large  7/1988  Closed on
Project (IDP-IIl)             scale industries & support GOSL's industrial policy with areas       06/30/95
US$43.8 million                of tariff administration, import promotion, capital markets and
Credit 1948-CE                technology development.
7. Public Manufacturing        Support the reform program to commercialize, modernize and  11/1990  Closed on
Enterprise Adjustment Credit   privatize public manufacturing enterprises to promote efficiency    11/95
(PMEAC) US$120 million         and growth.
Credit 2185 -CE
8. Fourth Small and Medium     Complement and expand previous industrial sector operations  5/1991  Closed on
Industries Project (SMI-IV)    by (i) improve financial sector efficiency by institutional         06/30/1997
US$45.0 million                strengthening and improved debt recovery policies and
Credit 2250 - CE               procedures (ii) provide support to GOSL's policy with areas of
tariff administration, promote exports and SMI development,
assist central environmental authority (iii) provide credit
through the banking system, for long term capital investment.
Following operations
I.Energy Services Delivery     Provide investment capital to grid connected and off-grid  1997     On going
Project US$30.1 million        connected energy services using environmentally sustainable,
Credit 2938-CE                 renewable energy technologies, support Electricity Board on
demand side management implementation and improve public
and private sector performance to deliver energy services.
2.Y2K Project US$29 million    To assist the Govemment on an urgent basis in its efforts to  2/1999  On going
Credit 3162-CE                 prevent possible business disruption in country's economic and
financial sectors as a result of Y2K problems.
3. PHRD Grant for Pension                                                              9/1999      On going
Reforms US$391,000 TF 025994
25



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          1   Date Planned    [    Date Actual/
[                                                                     Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   November 19,1992    November 19,1992
Preparation                                  July 1992            July 1992
Appraisal                                    January 5,1993       December 1992
Negotiations                                 March 5,1993         March 5,1993
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)  March 5, 1993       March 5, 1993
Board Presentation                           May 1993             April 20,1993
Signing                                      May 7, 1993          May 7, 1993
Effectiveness                                August 2,1993        August 2,1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)         NA                  NA
Midterm review (if applicable)               January 1996         April 08, 1995
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)  NA            NA
Project Completion                           December 31,1998     December 31,1998
Loan Closing                                 June 30,1999         June 30,1999
26



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99 (June 30)
Appraisal Estimnate      6.6      20.4    41.4      54.6    60
Actual'                  5.8      24.9    46.6      53.3    56.5        57.9
Actual as % of Estimate  87.8    122.0    112.5    97.6    94.2         96.5
Date of Final Disbursement: December 8, 1999
Note: The difference is due to the exchange rate fluctuations between historical SDR and various currencies
during the life of the project
27



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/                 Estimated                          Actual
President's Report
1. Subloan financing         1. Utilization of the credit      1. Fully utilized. Details of the
component of US$57.5 mn.         utilization of the credit component
is in Annex 6: Table 1
2. Capital formation and      2. Expansion and new              2. Achieved to a large extent.
employment generation        investments in various industrial    Details in Annex 6
subsectors.
3. Financial performance of    3. Improving the PCIs project    3. Achieved to a large extent.
the PCIs and their loan       financing operations, satisfactory    Details in Annex 10
recovery rate.                profitability, effective
assets/liability management, and
minimum 80% collection ratio.
4. Subproject performance     4. Strong demand, effective       4. Achieved to a large extent.
utilization, creating jobs,      Details in Annexes 6 & 11 
increasing exports, new
establishments.
5. Sectoral distribution of   5. Fair distribution in all sectors.   5. Achieved. Mostly services
subprojects                                                     sector as there were other lines of
credit available for small and
medium scale industries. Details
in Annex 6: Table 2
6. Geographical distribution    6. Availability of credit fund in    6. The Sub-loans were mostly
all districts.                   concentrated in Western Province
due to inadequate physical and
economic infrastructure outside it
and the ethnic conflict. Details in
Annex 6: Table 3
II. Modified Indicators      Not Applicable                    Not Applicable
(if applicable)
mII. Other Indicators         Not Applicable                    Not Applicable
(if applicable)
Note: Implementation indicators were not identified and estimated in SAR. The ICR provides the above indicators
which are commonly used for financial intermediation operations
28



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key Operating                   Estimated                         Status
Indicators in
SAR/President's Report
(a) Restructuring of state   Amend the Bank of Ceylon (BOC)  Complied. The amendments
owned commercial banks   Ordinance and the Peoples Bank (PB)   were incorporated in the
(SCBS)                  Act to enable SCBs to function as   agreements signed with the
autonomous commercial organizations.  two state banks.
Establish a mechanism for dealing with  Achieved. Recovery of bad
the larger bad loans of SCBs.      loans had been significant but
not adequate.
Control the Administrative costs of the   The targets were revised in the
SCBs, improve credit discipline in their 1998 agreements. However
lending, reduce their intermediation  the first review revealed that
costs, achieve profitability levels  the two state banks have not
comparable to those of the private  complied with the
banks operating in Sri Lanka within two  performance targets agreed.
years of their recapitalization.   IDA has indicated to the
GOSL to initiate private
management contracts.
(b) Institutional       Further reduce its direct and indirect    Achieved. Both are majority
Strengthening of        shareholding in the National        private sector owned.
Development Finance     Development Bank (from 39%) to less
Institutions (DFIs)     than 20%. Reduce the number of board
members representing public sector
shareholders.
(c) Development of      Increase the volume and the maturity of Achieved with delay.
Government debt market  its competitively priced debt
instruments so that by 8/30/94 at least
Rs. 4 billion worth of such securities
will have been issued and the volume of
such instruments will by 12/31/95, have
been increased to Rs 10 billion.
Removal of adverse effects of      Achieved.
withholding tax to develop the
secondary trading of financial
instruments.
(d) Portfolio           EPF and ETF to invest at least 5% of    Achieved. See Annex 5
diversification of The  their annual inflow in non-government
Employees Provident     securities in 1993, rising to 10% by
Fund and Employee Trust  June 1995.
Fund and National Savings NSB to invest atlas 10% of its
Bank                     investments in non-government
securities.
29



Key Operating                  Estimated                        Status
Indicators in
SAR/President's Report
Build portfolio management capacity in  EPF is planning to sub
the contractual savings institutions.  contract fund management to
private fund managers while
building in-house capacity
with the help of consultants.
Not achieved.
(e) Improvements in    Introduce a new Insurance Act to   Not achieved.
Insurance sector        strengthen the regulatory framework.
Reduce market segmentation and    Achieved to an extent.
promotion of competition.         Mandatory ceding removed
and institutional agent
abolished.
Commence privatization of thee two    Not achieved. The cabinet has
state insurance companies by December approved divesting of 39% of
1993.                             the National Insurance Co.
l                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LTD.
(f) Improvements in Bank  Strengthen the laws and regulations.    Achieved.
Supervision and regulation
(g) Improvements in    Improve enforcement of the standards   Not achieved yet though the
Accounting Regulations    and set a monitoring Board.     Board has been set up.
and Financial Disclosures
(h) Improved Debt       Improve debt recovery.            Achieved. But adequate.
Recovery Measures
(i) Introduction of     To introduce more market-oriented  Achieved.
Variable Interest Rates    rates by encouraging on-lending at
variable rates.
30



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Purpose as Defined           Status       Impact of Study
at Appraisal/Redefined
1. Financial review of   Evaluate the financial          Completed in  Provided a basis for
Bank of Ceylon         performance                        1993       the 1993
agreements
2. Financial review of    Evaluate the financial          Completed in  Provided a basis for
People's Bank           performance                        1993       the 1993
|  I                                           agreements
3. Actuarial assessment of   Possible privatization       Completed in  Marginal impact
Sri Lanka Insurance                                        1993
corporation
4. Actuarial assessment of   Possible privatization       Completed in  Marginal impact
National Insurance                                         1993
Corporation
5. Financial review of Sri   Possible privatization       Completed in  Marginal impact
Lanka Insurance                                            1994
Corporation
6. Financial review of    Possible privatization          Completed in  Marginal impact
National Insurance                                         1994
Corporation
7. Bank Supervision       Improve supervision capacity    Completed in  Good. Have
Department Study                                           1997       implemented
recommendations.
Refer Para. 41 of
the report
8. Study of Automation of   To support streamlining of    Completed in  See Annex 8
banking activities and  banking operations and providing   1998
government debt security  a central depositary for
market                  Government debt securities. Also
to provide a transfer system with
real time gross settlement (RTGS)
facilities.
9. Study of development of  To design investment guidelines    Completed in  Good. See Annex 8
portfolio management of  and develop a selection criteria for  1999
Employees Provident     external fund managers
Fund
10. Diagnostic review of  Review the portfolio performance   Completed in  CBSL intends to
Bank of Ceylon                                            1999       restructure the bank
Slow progress
11. Diagnostic review of  Review the portfolio performance   Completed in  CBSL intends to
People's Bank        1                                     1999      restructure the bank
31



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                        Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Item            Local           Foreign           Total            Local           Foreign           Total
Costs            Costs                            Costs             Costs
1. Credit                  81.6             69.5           139.5              79.5             69.6            149.1
2. Technical                0.0              2.5              2.5              0.8              3.1              3.9
Assistance
TOTAL                   81.6             72.0           153.6              80.3             72.7            153.0
32



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                      Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local          Foreign          Total           Local          Foreign           Total
Source             Costs            Costs                           Costs           Costs
IBRD/IDA                         0.0            60.0            60.0              0.0            60.7             60.7
Co-financiers*                   0.0            12.0            12.0              0.0            12.0             12.0
PCIs                            38.3             0.0            38.3             38.4             0.0             38.4
Entrepreneurs                   43.3             0.0            43.3             41.1             0.0             41.1
Government                       0.0             0.0             0.0              0.8             0.0              0.8
TOTAL                     81.6            72.0           153.6            80.3            72.7            153.0
* USAID and KfW provided funds under their bilateral programs.
33



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Ex-post ERR was not calculated for the sub-projects
34



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Sri Lanka
Private Finance Development Project
Agreement Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised                  Description of
type    S      fulfillment fulfillment              covenant
date      date
Credit     Article 4 02       C        Four                 Borrower to provide to IDA records of
(b-i)                      months               project/ Special Accounts and SOEs audited
after each           in accordance with sound auditing principles
fiscal year          by independent auditors no later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year.
Article  02        C       Four                 The PCIs to provide to IDA their audited
4(b-ii)                    months               financial statements no later than 4 months
after each           after the end of each fiscal year.
fiscal year
Article 4 02       C       Annually              Each PCI shall comply with eligibility
criteria, ratio requirements and exposure
limit: minimum cash collection
ratio(principal and interest) of 80%,
maximum portfolio infection ratio of 20%,
minimum DSCR of 1.25 times; minimum
return on equity of 9%, maximum debt/equity
ratio of 8:1; minimum capital adequacy ratios
of 4% and 8% for tier 1 and 2.
Schedule           C       Continuous           The Borrower undertakes that subloans will
3( 2and                                         be made in accordance with the procedures
3.a)                                            and terms and conditions set forth in schedule
3 of the DCA and that procurement of the
goods and services shall be governed by
provision set forth in schedule 5.
Schedule           C       Continuous           The Borrower maintain the Project Unit with
4(1.a)                                          responsibilities and staff satisfactory to the
Association.
Schedule           CD      December             The Borrower shall take necessary measures
4 (4)                      1994                 to increase the volume and maturity of debt
December             instruments (T-bills and rupee securities) so
that by August 30, 1994 at least 4 billion
1995                 worth of such securities issued and the
volume such instruments will by December
31, 1995 increase by Rs. 10 billion.
Schedule           CP      1994                 The borrower shall carry out, for contractual
4(5)                                             savings institutions, an investment portfolio
diversification plan.
Schedule 10        C                            The Borrower shall carry out activities under
4 (2)                                            Parts B and C of the Project, in accordance
with a program and timetable satisfactory to
the association.
35



Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised                          Description of
type     Stats  fuflulment fulfillment                    covenant
date        date
Schedule  10         C         No date                  The Borrower shall by August 31, 1994 or
4 (3)                          indicated                such other date as the association shall
determine, conduct a review with the
association with regard to the actions taken
pursuant to the statement and the
implementation of the project.
Schedule  10         CD        No date                  The Borrower shall implement a plan
4 (6)                          indicated                satisfactory to the Association, for
improvements in the enforcement of auditing
and accounting standards.
Schedule  10         CD        October    January       The Borrower shall in accordance with terms
7 (a)                          1993        1996         of reference satisfactory to the Association:
(i) commence a banking supervision study by
October 31, 1993; and (ii) complete such
study March 31, 1994.
Schedule  10         CD        March                    The Borrower shall, in accordance  with
7 (b)                          1993                     terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association: (i) commence a insurance study
by March 31, 1993; and (ii) complete such
study March 31, 1994.
Covenant types:
i. =  Accounts/audits                      8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue         9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
generation from beneficiaries        10.   Project implementation not covered
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds      by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                  11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. =  Management aspects of the project or       or other resource allocation
executing agency                     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                    regulatory/institutional action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement             13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= not complied with
36



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements.
37



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned             Revised              Actual
Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$
Preparation to Appraisal
Appraisal-Board
Negotiations through Board
Approval                                                                              l
Supervision                                                         124.36    282.04
Completion
TOTAL                                                              124.36    124.36
* Balance information not available in project files.
38



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/   Number   Days           Specialized      Implementa-   Development  Types of
Project Cycle    Year        of        in         Staff Skills         tion        Objectives    Problems
Persons   Field       Represented          Status
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal
through Board
Approval
Initial Summary   05/93        2        0.0   Sr. Financial Analyst
Operations Officer
Supervision       04/94        2              Operations Officer   The rating was   The
Sr. Operations      satisfactory     development
Analyst             throughout the   impact and
project         implementa-
09/94       2        0.0    Operations Officer    implementation  tion progress
Sr. Operations Officer               were
04/95       4               Sr. Operations                       satisfactory
Analyst
Environmental
Specialist
Operations Officer
Sr. Operations Officer
01/97       1       15.0   Sr. Operations
Economist
12/97       2       22.0   Industrial Economist
Environmental
Economist
12/98       2       16.0  Industrial Economist
Environmental
Economist
Completion        08/99        2       21.0   Industrial Economist   Satisfactory   Development
Project Analyst     project          objectives
performance     achieved and
the
implementa-
tion progress
was
satisfactory
39



Annex 1
(Page 1 of 3)
LEGISLATIVE ENACTMENTS RELATING TO
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
1.    Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995: The Act provides
statutory force to the accounting and auditing standards adopted by the institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka(ICASL). The law requires all "specified business enterprises" to
prepare its accounts in compliance with the Sri Lanka accounting standards and ensure that its
accounts are audited by professionally qualified chartered accountants in accordance with the
Sri Lanka auditing standards. The ICASL will be assisted by an Accounting Standard
Committee (12 members) and an Auditing Standards Committee (8 members) whose task is to
make recommendations to the ICASL on the adaptation of accounting and auditing standards.
The Act provides for the establishment of an Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring
Board (AASMB) which is responsible for monitoring and enforcing the standards. The
statutory board consist of 13 members (representing the Registrar of Companies, Department
of Inland Revenue, Securities and Exchange Commission, Central Bank, ICASL, Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), Bar Association, Chamber of Commerce,
Bankers Association and University Grants Commission). Offenses under the Act will carry a
fine not exceeding Rs. 500,000/-.
2.    Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act No. 8 of 1995: The
amendment to the Act provides for leasing companies, merchant banks, finance companies to
have access to the Credit Information Bureau.
3.    Recovery of Loans by Banks (special provisions)(Amendment) Act No. 24 of
1995: The amendment provides for the extension of the application of the Act to the Bank of
Ceylon and the National Savings Bank.
4.    National Savings Bank (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1995: The amendments provide
for the capitalization and restructuring of National Savings Bank (NSB). The NSB will have
authorized capital of Rs. 10 billion divided into 1 billion shares of Rs. 10/- each. The issued
capital of NSB would be determined from time to time by the Minister of Finance. The
Secretary to the Treasury would be the sole shareholder of NSB on behalf of the GOSL. The
amendments also enable NSB to undertake a much wider range of functions such as -
promoting and mobilizing savings, purchasing and trading in any securities, debentures,
Treasury Bills and financial instruments guaranteed by the GOSL, lending in the interbank call
money markets, wholesale lending to banks and financial institutions, undertaking retail
lending against the security of deposits, providing housing loans on security mortgages of
immovable property and participation in loan syndication. the Board of Directors of NSB
should consist of 7 members (5 appointed directors and 2
ex-officio directors). The amendment also lay down the required level of qualifications and
experience of the directors.
40



Annex 1
(Page 2 of 3)
5.    Monetary Law ( Amendment) Act No. 26 of 1995: Two new sections have been
incorporated in the Act. The first amendment clause empowers the Central Bank to purchase
shares in companies for the promotion of human resources and technical development in the
banking and financial sectors. The second amendment clause will enable the Central Bank to
provide facilities:
a) to non-commercial bank primary dealers to maintain accounts at the Central Bank for
the purpose of settling securities transactions.
b) to direct participants to maintain accounts at the Central Bank for the purposes of
holding scripless securities and clearing and settling transactions in scripless securities.
6.    Local Treasury Bills (Amendment) Act No. 32 of 1995: The amendment provides
for the issue of scripless Treasury Bills. Procedures relating to the maintenance of records and
transfers of scripless Treasury Bills are also covered. The one year limitation on the maturity
of Treasury Bills has also been reintroduced.
7.    Registered Stocks and Securities (Amendment) Act No. 32 of 1995 : The
amendment provides for the issue of Treasury Bonds with fixed coupon rate of interest and
maturities over one year. The Treasury Bonds can be sold by auction or can be transferred by
endorsement. The Treasury Bonds can be issued at par or at a premium or discount and in
scripless form.
8.    Banking (Amendment) Act No. 33 of 1995: Several amendments were made to the
Banking Act in order to strengthen the supervisory power of the Central Bank and to extend
such powers over development banks and savings banks, thereby, creating a more competitive
banking environment. The Banking Act of the 1988 contained provisions to license and
regularly supervise only commercial banks and Regional Rural Development Banks.
Specialized banks such as development banks and savings banks were not required to be
licensed and supervised. However, the distinction between commercial banks and specialized
banks is disappearing as many of the specialized banks engage in conventional banking
business like the acceptance of deposits from the public and provision of short-term credit.
The latest amendment provide for the licensing of specialized banks such as the National
Development Bank, Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon, National Savings Bank and
the State Mortgage & Investment Bank. The Central Bank is also empowered to supervise and
give directions to specialized banks. Amendments have also been introduced to authorize the
Central Bank to supervise the activities of Foreign Currency Banking Units (the Offshore
banking units of commercial banks). The Central Bank had previously had announced certain
capital adequacy, loan classification and provisioning requirements based on international
standards. These requirements however were not included in the Banking Act. Therefore
amendments have been introduced to incorporate all prudential controls on commercial banks
into the Banking Act. The section dealing with types of activities commercial banks can
undertake has also been amended in order to remove the special privileges according to
state commercial banks. All commercial banks can now engage in pawn-broking , a line of
business which was earlier permitted only for state banks. Amendments have also been
introduced which deal with the vesting of a licensed commercial bank by the Central
41



Annex 1
(Page 3 of 3)
Bank under special circumstances. The provisions relating to the operation of numbered
accounts have been repealed.
9.    Regional Development Banks Act, No. 6 of 1997: This Act provides for the
establishment of development banks in specified regions for the purpose of development in
that region by providing for the development of agriculture, industries, trade, commerce and
other development activities.
42



Annex 2
RELATIVE SIZE OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR 1993 & 1998
1993                                        1998
Financial sector component   Total Assets       Share        Ratio to    Total Assets       Share         Ratio to
Rs. bn          %           GDP'%          Rs. bn           %           GDP2%
Central Bank                           133.6          18.5           26.7          188.7          14.5           18.6
Commercial Banks                      243.9           33.8           48.8         501.7           38.6           49.4
State-owned Banks                     155.4          21.5           31.1         277.4           21.3           27.3
Private Dom. Banks                     50.0           6.9           10.0          167.0          12.9           16.5
Foreign Banks                          38.5           5.3            7.7          57.3            4.4            5.6
Foreign Currency Banking Units3         56.2           7.8           11.2          103.5           8.0           10.2
National Savings Bank                   44.4           6.2            8.9           90.9           7.0            9.0
DFIs (DFCC/NDB)                         19.0           2.6            3.8           55.0           4.2            5.4
State Mortgage Bank                      3.2           0.4            0.6           6.6            0.5            0.7
Finance Companies                        9.0           1.2            1.8          26.1            2.0            2.6
EPF/ETF                                 75.8          10.5           15.2         191.1           14.7           18.8
Insurance Companies                     12.4           1.7            2.5          23.8            1.8            2.3
Stock Market Capitalization            123.8          17.2           24.8         112.1            8.6           11.0
Total                                  721.3           100          144.3        1299.5            100          128.0
Note:
1 GDP at current market prices in 1993 Rs. 500 billion
2 GDP at current market prices in 1998 Rs. 1,015 billion
3 Desegregation is not available.
Source: Economic Research Department - Central Bank of Sri Lanka
43



Annex 3
(Page 1 of 3)
SUMMARY OF COMMERCIAL BANK PERFORMANCE
STATE                          PRIVATE                          FOREIGN                          ALL BANKS
1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998
RELATIVE SIZE
No. of branches Nos.          620     622     621     618      214     240     267     296        0      39      42       39     834     901      930     953
No of employees Nos.       20,835  21,120  21,074  20,732   7,953   8,532   9,633  10,223         0   2,057   2,017   2,151  28,788  31,709  32,724  33,106
Market share of the total    62.1    59.9    58.1    56.0    26.5    28.9    30.2    32.8    11.4    11.2    11.7    11.2    100          100     100     100
assets %
Market share of the total    63.5    61.7    58.8    56.6    26.6    28.6    30.7    33.5       9.8      9.7    10.5     9.9    100       100     100     100
deposits %
Market share of the demand   74.9    63.0    60.5    59.9    25.1    22.0    24.3    24.8         -    15.1    15.1    15.2    100        100     100     100
deposits %                                                I
Market share of advances %   62.3    56.0    54.5    53.3    26.6    32.2    34.2    36.4    11.1    11.8    11.3    10.2    100          100     100     100
INCOME STATEMENT
DATA (Rs Mn)
Interest Income            23,195  26,664  29,186  30,272   9,321  12,365  14,700  15,651   4,254   5,457   6,280   6,501  36,770  44,486  50,166  52,424
Interest expense           13,544  17,247  18,600  17,963   5,895   8,254   9,586   9,340   2,474   3,213   4,165   4,318  21,913  28,714  32,351  31,621
Net Interest margin         9,651   9,417  10,586  12,309   3,426   4,111   5,114   6,311   1,780   2,244   2,115   2,183  14,857  15,772  17,815  20,803
Other Income                4,483   5,299   6,946   6,506   2,113   2,341   2,950   3,433   1,459   1,436   2,024   2,406   8,055   9,076   11,920  12,345
Total net Income           14,134  14,716  17,532  18,815   5,539   6,451   8,064   9,744   3,239   3,680   4,139   4,589  22,912  24,847  29,735  33,148
Employee expenses           4,959   5,008   6,225   7,047   1,521   1,681   2,215   2,794       653     731     921   1,075   7,133   7,420   9,361   10,916
Other expense               3,756   4,522   4,964   5,537   1,810   2,454   3,087   3,837    1212   1,393   1,608   1,745   6,778    8,369   9,659   11,119
Provision for doubtful debts    2,184   1,151   1,847   3,537  380     465     641     801      141     163     855      629   2,705    1,779   3,343   4,967
Profit before taxes         3,235   4,035   4,096   2,694   1,828   1,848   2,121   2,312   1,233   1,393       755   1,140   6,296   7,276   6,972   6,146
Extra ordinary items                    0     400       0        0       3       3       0              -49       3        0       0      -46     406       0
Tax                          383   1,168      817   1,150     479      449     432     492      545     556     313     370   1,407   2,173    1,562   2,012
Profit after Taxes          2,852   2,867   3,279   1,544   1,349   1,399   1,689   1,820       688     886     439      770   4,889   5,152   5,407   4,134
AS A % OF AVG. TOTAL
ASSETS                                                                            I
Interest Income              11.8    11.1    11.5    10.9    10.5    10.7    11.5    10.1    11.1    12.1    12.8    11.6    11.0    11.1    11.7    10.7
Interest expense              6.9     7.2     7.3      6.4     6.6     7.1     7.5      6.0     6.5     7.1      8.5     7.7     6.5      7.2     7.5     6.5
Net Interest margin           4.9     3.9     4.2      4.4     3.8     3.6      4.0     4.1     4.7     5.0      4.3     3.9     4.4      3.9     4.1      4.3
Other Income                  2.3     2.2     2.7      2.3     2.4     2.0     2.3      2.2     3.8     3.2      4.1     4.3     2.4      2.3     2.8     2.5
Total net Income              7.2     6.1     6.9      6.8     6.2     5.6     6.3      6.3     8.5     8.2      8.4     8.2     6.8      6.2     6.9      6.8
Employee expenses             2.5     2.1     2.5      2.5     1.7     1.5       1.7   1.8     1.7      1.6     1.9     1.9     2.1      1.9     2.2      2.2
44



Annex 3
(Page 2 of 3)
SUMMARY OF COMMERCIAL BANK PERFORMANCE
STATE                          PRIVATE                         FOREIGN                         ALL BANKS
1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998
Other expenses                1.9     1.9     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.1      2.4     2.5     3.2     3.1      3.3    3.1      2.0     2.1     2.2      2.3
Provisions for doubtful debt  1.1     0.5     0.7     1.3     0.4     0.4      0.5     0.5     0.4     0.4      1.7     1.1    0.8      0.4      0.8     1.01
Profit before taxes           1.7     1.7     1.6     1.0     2.1      1.6     1.7     1.5     3.2     3.1      1.5     1.2     1.9     1.8      1.6     1.3
Tax                           0.2     0.5     0.3     0.4     0.5     0.4      0.3     0.3     1.4     1.2      0.6     0.7     0.4     0.5      0.4     0.4
Profit after Taxes            1.5     1.2     1.3     0.6     1.5      1.2     1.3     1.2     1.8     2.0      0.9    1.4      1.5     1.3      1.3     0.8
BALANCE SHEET DATA
Total assets Rs. Mn       208,491 239,587 267,1 4 290,357  89,117 115,790 138,977 169,913  38,181  44,914  53,803  57,803 335,789 400,291 459,894 518,073
Total deposits Rs. Mn     157,348 176,118 195,277 210,496  65,908  81,850 101,750 124,530  24,366  27,696  34,810  36,884 247,622 285,664 331,837 371,910
of which demand deposits    27,599  30,319  32,071  34,531   9,260  10,571  12,893  14,294      0   7,262   8,008   8,775  36,859  48,152  52,972  57,600
Rs. Mn
Total advances Rs. Mn     115,663 133,316 151,055 166,949  49,285  76,566  94,869 114,030  20,681  28,028  31,316  32,027 185,629 237,910 277,240 313,006
Total Capital Rs. Mn       11,834  13,553  15,504  15,006   6,925   8,700  10,039  11,137   4,493   4,779   6,131   6,557  23,252  27,032  31,674  32,700
Contingent liabilities/assets    62,921  72,945  91,141  100,491  32,421  43,700  51,020  42,849  30,308  28,720  38,936  35,591 125,650 145,365  181097 178,931
Rs. Mn                                                           I                                                                         I
Deposits/Total assets %      75.5    73.5    73.1    72.5    74.0    70.7    73.2    73.3   63.8    61.7    64.7    63.8    73.7    71.4    72.2    71.8
Demand deposits/total        17.5    17.2    16.4    16.4    14.0    12.9    12.7    11.5      0.0    26.2    23.0    23.8    14.9    16.9    16.0    15.5
deposits %
Advances/total assets %      55.5    55.6    56.6    57.5    55.3    66.1    68.3    67.1    54.2    62.4    58.2    55.4    55.3    59.4    60.3    60.4
Capital/Total assets %        5.7     5.7     5.8     5.2     7.8     7.5      7.2     6.6    11.8    10.6    11.4    11.3      6.9     6.8     6.9      6.3
Advances/deposits %          73.5    75.7    77.4    79.3    74.8    93.5    93.2    91.6    84.9   101.2    90.0    86.8    75.0    83.3    83.5    84.2
Contingent liabilities/Tot.  30.2    30.4    34.1    34.6    36.4    37.7    36.7    25.2    79.4    63.9    72.4    61.6    37.4    36.3    39.4    34.5
assets %
RATIO ANALYSIS-
FINANCING
Interest on advances Rs Mn    17,740  20,221  19,390  20,260   9,321  10,922  12,868  14,065   4,254   3,928   4,794   4,666  31,314  35,071  37,052  38,991
Interest on advances/total   15.3    15.2    12.8    12.1    18.9    14.3    13.6    12.3    20.6    14.0    15.3    14.6    16.9    14.7    13.4    12.5
advances %                                                                       I
Interest on deposits Rs. Mn  9,872  13,490  14,159  13,104   5,895   7,718   8,911   8,591   2,280   2,053   3,057   3,228  18,047  23,261  26,127  24,923
Interest on deposits/Total    6.3    7.66    7.25    6.23    8.94    9.43    8.76    6.90    9.36    7.41    8.78    8.75    7.29    8.14    7.87    6.70
deposits %
Interest spread %             9.1     7.5     5.6     5.9    10.0     4.8      4.8     5.4    11.2     6.6     6.5      5.8     9.6     6.6     5.5      5.8
Non-interest income/total    16.2    16.6    19.2    17.7    18.5    15.8    16.5    18.0    25.5    20.3    23.3    27.0    17.5    16.8    19.0    19.1
income %                                                                 I       I
Tot. operating exp. (net of  7,835   9,530  11,189  12,585   3,322   4,135   5,302   6,628   1,865   2,124   2,530   2,820  13,022  15,789  19,021  22,033
prov.) Rs. Mn            I_                        __
45



Annex 3
(Page 3 of 3)
SUMMARY OF COMMERCIAL BANK PERFORMANCE
STATE                          PRIVATE                          FOREIGN                          ALL BANKS
1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998    1995    1996    1997    1998
Tot. operating exp./Tot assets  3.8   4.0      4.2     4.3     3.7     3.6      3.8     3.9     4.9      4.7     4.7     4.9      3.9     3.9     4.1      4.3
%
Profit after tax/capital %   24.1    21.2    21.1    10.3    19.5    16.1    16.8    16.3    15.3    18.5        7.2    11.7    21.0    19.1    17.1    12.6
Profit after tax/total income %  10.3  9.0     9.1     8.2    11.8     9.5      9.6     9.5    12.0    12.9      5.3     8.6    11.0      9.6     8.6      6.4
RATIO ANALYSIS -
EFFICIENCY                                                I
Employee expense/Tot. net    35.8    34.0    35.5    37.5    27.5    26.1    27.5    28.7    20.2    19.9    22.3    23.4    31.5    29.9    31.5    32.9
income %
Employee                      0.2     0.2      0.3     0.3     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.3       -      0.4     0.5     0.5      0.2     0.2     0.3      0.3
expense/employees( Rs. Mn)
Emp. & Other                 33.8    35.7    38.3    41.7    35.7    33.1    35.6    42.4    43.8    41.0    40.8    51.0    35.4    35.7    37.8    43.0
expenses/interest income %
Total assets/employee Rs.    10.0    11.3    12.7    14.0    11.2    13.6    14.4    16.6         -    21.8    26.7    26.9    11.7    12.6    14.1    15.6
Mn
Employees/branch(person)       34      34      34      34       37      36      36      35               53      48       55      35      35       35      35
Nos.
Total assets/ branches Rs.  336.3   385.2   430.1   469.8   416.4   482.5   520.5   574.0            1,151.6  1,281.0  1,482.1   402.6   444.3   494.6   543.6
Mn
Total net income/branch Rs.  22.4    23.7    28.2    30.4    25.9    26.8    30.1    32.9              94.4    98.5   117.7    27.2    27.6    32.0    34.8
Mn
Accumulated provisions Rs    12,134  13,122  13,919  16,665   3,623   1,763   2,116   2,564   1,220     593   1,397   1,670  16,977   15,478  17,432  20,899
Mn
Non-performing loans Rs.   9,486i   22,537  26,396  28,880   4,697   9,408  10,487  12,574   2,155   2,417   3,223   3,945   16,338  34,362  40,106  45,399
Mn                                                                                                                                  I
Provisions/total advances %  10.5     9.8      9.2    10.0    7.35    2.30    2.23    2.25    5.90    2.12    4.46    5.21      9.15    6.51    6.29    6.68
Provisions/non-performing  127.9F    58.2    52.7    57.7    77.1    18.7    20.2    20.4    56.6    24.5    43.3    42.3   103.9    45.0    43.5    46.0
loans %
Non-performing loans/tot.    8.2      16.9    17.5    17.3     9.5    12.3    11.1    11.0    10.4      8.6    10.3    12.3       8.8    14.4    14.5    14.5
advances
Capital adequacy ratio % -   N/A     N/A    10.5       8.6    N/A     N/A       11    12.5    N/A      N/A    13.1    13.9    N/A        N/A       11    10.7
avg.                                                              I_          _ _   _ __ _  _ __I     _ _ _   __ _ ___I_                       _ _ _
Average Total assets Rs. Mn  N/A  239,587 253,350 278,735    N/A  115,790 127,384 154,445    N/A  45,027  49,139  55,899    N/A  400,404 429,873 489,079
Note: Non -performing loans of People's Bank are not included (Information not available)
Source: Bank Supervision Department - Central Bank of Sri Lanka
46



Annex 4
COMPLIANCE OF THE AGREEMENTS: Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank
Table 1: Compliance of 1993 Agreements
Criterion         1        Bank of Ceylon                     People's Bank
International audits         Yes                             Yes
Non performing               11.8'%                          25.0%
loans/advances
PBD 11%
Loan provisioning            96.9%                           31.9%
PBD 20%
Management action plans and   Management action plans are    Management action plans are prepared
Corporate plans              prepared every month. Corporate   every month. Corporate plan is also
plan is also prepared as agreed. A   prepared as agreed. A quarterly
quarterly management           management information report is
information report is submitted to  submitted to the Bank Supervision
the Bank Supervision Department  Department of the Central Bank.
of the Central Bank.
Introduction of rigorous credit  A credit appraisal system, risk  A credit appraisal system, risk asset
standards                    asset review and credit audits  review and credit audits have been
have been introduced and they   introduced but they are not effective as
have been effective as expected.   expected.
Freeze cadre position as at  9,873                           10,859
1991 level except for skilled
positions
(BOC 10,299: PB 11,209)
Ratio of staff expenses/total    2.1                         3.1
assets
(private dom. Banks 1.8 in
1998)
Branches 1991+approvals      293                             325
granted up to 1993 March
(1991 -289)                    (1991 - 320)
ROA  after provisioning      0.8                             0
Before provisioning    2.5                             1.2
PBD 1.2
Note: I This was higher in the Portfolio audit report.
Table 2: Compliance of 1998 Agreements
BOC                        PB
Performance indicators           L Targets       Actual       Targets       Actual
1998         1998         1998          1998
1. ROA % (after loan loss provisions)               2.5          0.8           1.5             0
ROA % (before loan loss provisions)                            2.5                         1.2
2. ROE % (after loan loss provisions)              33.0          12.2         40.0             0
ROE % (before loan loss provisions)                           38.4                        31.2
3. Staffcost to average assets %                    2.1           2.1          2.1           3.1
4. Recovery of Non-performing Advances as at        850         1919          2592         2795
31.12.97 (Rs. Mn)
5. Overhead Cost to Average Assets %                1.1           1.2          0.8          1.85
6. Rationalization of Branches (Nos.)                 5             -            5
7. No. of loss making Branches                                    15                          21
Source: Department of External resources - Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Bank Supervision Department - Central Bank
47



Annex 5
INVESTMENT OF CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS INSTITUTES (CSIs)
IN NON-GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
Institution            1993                 1994                 1995                 1996                 1997                 1998
Amount As a % of Amount As a % of Amount As a % of Amount  As a % of  Amount As a % of Amount  As a % of
Rs. Mn  Total Inv.  Rs. Mn  Total Inv.  Rs. Mn  Total Inv.  Rs. Mn   Total Inv.  Rs. Mn  Total Inv.  Rs. Mn   Total Inv.
Employee's Trust Fund      149       17.6     3,071       28.7     3,656      28.0      6,035       38.2     6,011       32.1     6,366       29.1
National Savings Bank    4,439       11.1     5,790       11.0     9,490       16.3    14,560       21.5    13,517       17.4    16,597       19.4
Employee's Provident        85        0.3      N/A           -       460        1.4       900        2.2         0       0.00       560        1.0
Fund
National Insurance         584       50.7       718       56.4       196       13.4       281       18.6     1,100       68.6       545       30.5
Corp.
Sri Lanka Insurance      2,395       35.6     3,902       48.5     5,686      51.7      6,577       52.5     7,088       49.3     7,546       44.6
Corp.
Sources: Employee's Trust Fund, National Savings Bank, Employee's Provident Fund,
National Insurance Corporation, Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation
48



Annex 6
(Page 1 of 2)
Table 1  Commitments & Disbursements of PCIs as at June 30th 1999
Commitments                                  Disbursements
No.       Amount    Average           No.        Amount    Average
Rs. Mn                                Rs. Mn
DFCC                 214        1,513.3        7.1          210       1,430.1         6.8
NDB                   116       1,352.0        11.7         114       1,326.1        11.6
HNB                    12        132.0        11.0           11         124.6        11.3
SAMPATH                 3         24.6         8.2            3         24.6          8.2
TOTAL                345       3,022.9         8.8          338       2,905.4         8.6
Table 2 Sectoral Distribution as at 30th June 1999
Sector             No. of   Employment   As a %of    Average   As a %of
Sector   projects   mploymenti  total  Loan Size    total
employment               Disbursed
potential
Food, Beverages & Tobacco          33           453           3.7         6.1         6.8
Construction Material               4            19           0.2         4.2         0.6
Agriculture, Agro business &        8           481           3.9         8.3         2.3
Fisheries
Textile & Garments                 64         3,767          30.9         5.3        11.6
Wood & Paper Products              28           658           5.4         6.9         6.6
Rubber & Leather Products          38         1,242          10.2         7.0         9.0
Metal, Chemical, Machinery,        82         2,251          18.5         7.6        20.7
Plastics & Equipment
Hotels                             14         1,141           9.4        33.9        16.0
Service industries, Transport,     51         1,560          12.8        10.5        17.5
Storage & Communication
Miscellaneous                      16           612           5.0        14.9         8.9
TOTAL                   338        12,184           100         8.6         100
49



Annex 6
(Page 2 of 2)
Table 3: Geographical Distribution as of June 30th 1999
District        No of       No of       Average    As a % of
Projects   Employees   loan size       total
Disbursed
Anuradhapura               3          325         31.1          3.2
Badulla                     1           0          1.2        0.04
Colombo                  218         5992          7.6        57.2
Galle                     14         1323          7.0          3.4
Gampaha                   58         1604          8.6         17.2
Kalutara                   10         582         15.1          5.2
Kandy                      15        1068         11.4          5.9
Kegalle                    2          109          4.2          0.3
Kurunegala                  3         184          2.1          0.2
Matara                      1          42          2.1          0.1
Matale                     4          515         38.3          5.3
Nuwara Eliya                2          57         19.5          1.3
Puttalam                   4           65          2.4          0.3
Ratnapura                  2           50          2.4          0.2
Trincomalee                 1         268          5.8          0.2
TOTAL                338       12,184          8.6         100
Source: National Development Bank
50



Annex 7
POLLUTION CONTROL AND ABATEMENT FUND
Table 1: Sectoral Classification -Approvals & Disbursements
Sector                Cumulative Approvals      Cumulative Disbursements
No. of       Amount         No. of       Amount
projects      Rs. Mn        projects      Rs. Mn
Food, Beverages, Tobacco,                6           26.7             6          21.6
Animal Husbandry Horticulture
& Aquarium
Construction Material                     1           0.8             0             0
(Mineral Based)
Agriculture Agro Industries &           20           61.9            14           43:4
Fisheries
Textile & Garments                       15          72.2            1 1         39.8
Wood and paper products                  6           19.1             6           18.9
Rubber, Leather & Allied                13           46.1            10           36.6
products
Metal, Chemical, Plastic                 13          48.7            1 1          38.4
products including manufacture
of fabricated metal, machinery
and equipment
Hotels                                  13           51.6             5           18.6
Service industries( Civil                 -             -             -
construction, Transport &
Communication)
Miscellaneous                             1           4.5             0             0
TOTAL                         88         331.6            63          217.3
Table 2: Geographical Distribution of Loan Approvals
District         No. of projects     Amount
Rs. Mn
Ampara                               1               10.0
Anuradapura                          0                 0
Badulla                              0                 0
Colombo                             23              79.7
Galle                                6               11.9
Gampaha                             13              66.0
Kalutara                            10              51.5
Kandy                                2               7.8
Kegalle                              4               14.8
Kurunagala                           1               0.4
Matara                               0                 0
Matale                               1               9.6
Nuwara Eliya                         1                1.9
Puttalam                            23              71.8
Ratnapura                            3               6.2
Trincomalee                          0                 0
TOTAL                               88             331.6
Source: National Development Bank
51



Annex 8
(Page 1 of 3)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Table 1: Policy related Technical Assistance
Name of the study/activity              Duration       Responsible agency      Approved          Total
Amount US$         US$
Domestic resource mobilization
Study of the automation of banking activities and Govt.    2 1/2 months  Central Bank        265,512
debt security mkt.
Development of portfolio management of EPF        6 months       Central Bank                359,932
Sub-total                                                                                                    625,444
Banking Sector
Diagnostic review of Bank of Ceylon              3 months       Bank of Ceylon / Central     330,208
Bank
Diagnostic review of People's Bank               3 months       People's Bank / Central      365,406
Bank
Financial review of Bank of Ceylon 93                           Bank of Ceylon               143,690
Financial review of People's Bank: 93                           People's Bank                222,174
Bank supervision Department study                                                            165,000
Sub-total                                                                                                    1,226,478
Insurance Sector
Actuarial assessment & Financial review of National
Insurance Corporation 92&93                                                                  114,690
Actuarial assessment & Financial review of Sri Lanka
Insurance Corp.92&93                                                                         186,496
Financial review of Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation 94                                       105,755
Financial review of National Insurance Corporation 94                                        32,733
Sub-total                                                                                                    439,674
Capacity building of PCIs
NDB                                      36             NDB                          187,202
DFCC                                     48             DFCC                        219,447
HNB                                      39        _    HNB                          140,233
52



Annex 8
(Page 2 of 3)
Name of the study/activity              Duration       Responsible agency       Approved          Total
_________________________                                               Amount US$         US$
Sampath Bank                             5               Sampath                      46,750
Harvard Training Programme on Project             3 weeks        DFCC                         149,200
Appraisal for Banking sector staff                35 trained
Harvard Training Programme on Project             1 week         National Development          71,650
Bank
Appraisal for Banking sector staff                35 Trained
Training and capacity building of other financial                Central Bank & Ministry of   109,677
institutions                                                     Finance and Planning
Sub-total                                                                                                     924,159
Environment
CleaNet                                                          Ceylon Chamber of            100,000          100,000
Commerce
& CISIR
TOTAL                                                                                                         3,315,755
53



Annex 8
(Page 3 of 3)
Table 2: Capacity Building of PCIs (Training)
PCI    No. Trained                          Areas of Training                                  General Policy On Staff Training
HNB         39       Banking & Finance                                                Continuing basis
Credit Management                                                Available to all categories of staff
General Management                                               Own training school classes held regularly.
Marketing Management                                             Overseas training provided for executives
Human Resource Management
Managing Change
DFCC         48       Environmental appraisal                                          Firmly committed
Legal                                                            Available to all categories of staff
Financial management
Executive development
Public relations management
Valuation of companies
Investment/ Merchant Banking
Treasury Management
General Management
IT Management
Human Resource management
Project Rehabilitation
Fund Portfolio Management
Development Banking
NDB         37       Project finance                                                  Draws out the training need after a careful training need
Infrastructure Finance                                           analysis done annually
Information Technology                                          Overseas management training for officers with higher
Trade Finance                                                   managerial potential
Portfolio Management
Legal aspects of project finance
Treasury management
Development management
Consultancies such as Restructuring, valuing & pricing of enterprises
Sampathf               Technical                                                       In house training and on the job training
Bank                 Human Resource management
Development of conceptual skills
Sources NQational Development Bank, Sampath Bank, Hatton National Bank, DFCC Bank
54



Annex 9
(Page 1 of 5)
BRIEF REPORT ON MAJOR STUDIES CONDUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
A Study on the Automation of Banking Activities and
the Government Debt Securities Market
1. Scope of Work: The Central Bank intends to install a payment system with the
appropriate communication network linking with the banks, other financial
institutions including the finance companies and primary dealers by streamlining
banking operations and providing a central depository for government debt securities.
This will also provide a transfer system with real time gross settlement(RTGS)
facilities. This is expected to lead to a scripless trading system.
2. The consultants were also required to identify the software and hardware and the
network infrastructure, provide indicative cost estimates for the financial institutions
for link up, provide different back-up and disaster recovery systems, estimate costs
for proposed systems, identify legal issues related to operating these systems, prepare
short and medium term implementation plans, provide a pricing structure and also
undertake a financial evaluation of the proposals to examine the financial viability
and prepare a RFP for the installation of the system.
3. Duration: 2 V2 months
4. Recommendations: The consultants have covered all the areas indicated in the
Terms of Reference. The main recommendation is to set up a RTGS for on-line
interbank funds transfer, conduct of scripless government securities trading and
automation of the general ledger of the Banking Department of the Central Bank.
5. The cost of implementing this system is expected to be around US$ 10 million and the
volume of current levels of transactions are not sufficient to make this project
financially viable.
6. The Central Bank(CB) is already testing an interim solution for trading in scripless
government securities and the link up to an automated current account of the Banking
Department. When the proposed system becomes operational CB believes the build
of transactions would justify the scale of operations for the required investment. CB is
also exploring the possibility of linking up this project with a shared network of
ATMs which might make the initial investment financially viable. This system will
minimize the settlement time and is currently being used in about 26 countries. It is
also expected to promote open market operations.
7. Next Steps: Central Bank believes that the volume of transactions would not justify
the initial investment of US$ 10 million. However the Central Bank has developed
software for the linking all commercial banks and scripless trading and has postponed
the RTGS to later date.
55



Annex 9
(Page 2 of 5)
Development of Portfolio Management of the Employees' Provident Fund
8. Scope of work: The consultants were expected to review the past investment
performance, investment needs of the fund, development of a Fund Management
Policy, recommend a portfolio structure, examine alternative approaches of
implementing the recommended structure and policy, review the information system
and reporting system, design internal controls and reporting arrangements, review
applicable legislation, procedure, organizational structure, development of procedures
for selecting fund managers, development of a comprehensive portfolio management
training manual and propose trading limits and turnover rates.
9. Duration: 6 months
1 0. Recommendations: Fund management policy proposed by the consultant is to earn
the highest level of total investment return, net of expenses that is reasonably
achievable under the prevailing market conditions in the long term. The targets
specified are recommended to be reviewed by the Monetary Board and the investment
committee annually.
1 1. The study proposed that the long term performance of the internal and external
managers to be evaluated against market based bench marks.
12. The study also highlighted that the asset allocation depends on CBSL intention to
phase out rupee securities. The consultants believe that EPF can build a diversified
portfolio maintaining afn exposure to the Rupee loans and include treasury bills and
equities. They pointed out that the framework is constrained by the size of the share
market
13. Considering the uncertainty regarding the Monetary Board's ability to delegate
investment decisions, active management by the external fund managers may not be
feasible. They proposed that the internal mangers to follow " buy and hold strategy"
while external mangers could create a healthy and competitive investment
environment.
14. They have proposed an independent Board of trustees to insulate the EPF from
overall policies of the government. Also they have proposed a regulatory agency to
oversee adherence of the EPF Board's fiduciary duties. They propose that the Board
should act "solely in the interest" of the EPF members. They have recommended the
adoption of a manual of internal policies and procedures to define and prevent undue
conflicts of interests and ethical violations by the Board and the key staff.
15. The study also proposed a detailed, in-depth evaluation of managers' investment
performance and transaction costs on a quarterly basis, portfolio valuation,
reconciliation and guidelines compliance monitoring at least on a monthly basis. In
addition they proposed that annual reviews be conducted of each fund manager's
general organizational and financial conditions to ensure that the bench marks and
guidelines remain valid.
56



Annex 9
(Page 3 of 5)
16. A training program has been proposed for the staff to evaluate the performance of
external fund managers and also for managing the internal fund management
portfolio.
17. They have also proposed that the EPF needs to change the organizational structure to
reflect a modern public pension fund management company with separate divisions
for investment in equities and debt instruments.
18. Next Steps : Central Bank is in the process of implementing the recommendations
proposed. In addition, they are coordinating with the Labour Department to use the
National Identity number to minimize multiple accounts. They also plan to recruit
external fund managers and restructure the EPF department to improve governance
and efficiency.
Diagnostic Review of Bank of Ceylon
19. Scope of Work: The scope of work included the assessment of loan portfolio,
assessment of the investment portfolio, risk management, capital structure and capital
adequacy, financial analysis, corporate governance and training.
20. Duration 3 months
21. Recommendations: The auditors commented that the bank did not have a clear or
coherent investment strategy and all analysis were highly judgmental. The
investments consist of 4.5% of total assets in securities, equity and equity investment
in subsidiaries and associated companies. BOC had made substantial losses on its
trading portfolio and needs to develop, document and utilize a formal investment
strategy and should have personnel to monitor the portfolio on an continuous basis
and report to AGM - investments. Also they should make arrangements to obtain
timely information.
22. The BOC has an asset and liability management committee but the information
available was not adequate for efficient management. The BOC needs to review their
information system to ensure that the data follows a controlled flow and is reconciled
between non-connected systems. The need for a formalized process to identify and
manage risk was highlighted by the auditors and proposed that the tolerated risk level
be communicated to the managers.
23. If the proposed loan loss provisions are made in full, the bank would need an infusion
of capital of Rs. 699 million and Rs. 2,683 million to reach 8% and 10% adequacy
ratios respectively.
24. Governance and Autonomy: The state influences the BOC in areas of appointment
of Board, dividend policy, credit activities, investments, recruitment and
remuneration. Although the Board is highly skilled in management, legal and public
sector they had little direct experience in the banking sector or banking operations.
57



Annex 9
(Page 4 of 5)
25. Management Information System: The consultant proposed that BOC review the
current management reports to determine whether the information was sufficient to
run the bank efficiently and effectively.
26. Consultants observed that the BOC had no clear direction. This was mainly due to
the lack of active direction by the state which is a shareholder. Although the bank
had developed mission and vision statements, both had lost their impact over the
years. The auditors recommended that the BOC review its current position and in
consultation with all interested parties develop and implement a clear strategy. The
consultants also proposed that the bank review its business plan regularly so that it is
inline with it's strategies and that its short term plans are coordinated with the long
term goals.
27. The auditors recommended that the BOC introduce a number of new products in
order to diversify lending operations, addressing sectors potential growth sectors.
This need to be done after a thorough analysis of market potential, target customers,
business position and industry positioning. The auditors proposed that bank pay more
attention to customer service. It was proposed that a SWOT analysis and an action
plan be developed and implemented for each branch.
28. Human Resource Management: Many of the employees of the bank are in the
middle age and the bank has difficulty in retaining young people. A stronger and
more effective HRM is recommended and manpower plan should be prepared.
Remuneration policies should take into account the functional specifications of the
employees. The consultants proposed that a large proportion of the remuneration
could be in the form of bonuses so that the overhead cost of the bank would reduce.
People's Bank(PB) Diagnostic Review
29. Scope of Work: The scope of work included the assessment of loan portfolio,
assessment of the investment portfolio, risk management, capital structure and capital
adequacy, financial analysis, corporate governance and training.
30. Recommendations: The consultant had reviewed the loan portfolio and
recommended the appropriate levels of provisioning that needs to be done. The
review reflected that the provisioning had been 42% (1996), 48% (1997) and 58%
(1998) below the required level according to the Central Bank criteria. If.
international provisioning requirements are followed in 1998, PB was below 63% of
the required level. If the proposed loan loss provisioning was followed the PB
required to be recapitalized by Rs. 8.0 -10 billion to reach a 8% capital adequacy
ratio.
58



Annex 9
(Page S of 5)
31. The investments consisted of 2% of the total assets which included debt securities,
equity investments, short and long-term as well as equity investments in subsidiaries
and associated companies. The consultants had indicated that PB follows the terms
and conditions of the agreement signed with the government in 1998 July which
precludes them from making any new investments in subsidiaries and associated
companies. The investment portfolio was static with the majority of investments
made before 1995 with the exception of investments in fixed income instruments.
There were no formal policies or procedures on making investments except
compliance with CBSL regulations.
32. Corporate governance: The government appointed Board of management had
strong business and legal backgrounds but minimal experience in banking. Even
though the audit committee as agreed with the GOSL had been set up, the consultants
recommended that the role, duties and and the reporting relationship of the internal
audit should be clarified and support be given to make it operational. PB had no asset-
liability committee (ALCO) to monitor non-loan risks across the bank. Despite the
attention paid to the loan portfolio, it was possible to lose sight of the other inherent
risks in banking business. The consultants recommended an ALCO for this purpose.
33. Policies and Procedures: PB has documented credit policies and procedures but not
all activities. PB's MIS and reporting structure were not an integral part of the
existing documented policies. The consultants proposed that the existing formal
policies and procedures should be expanded and updated. Subsequently they should
be incorporated in the documented policies and procedures. Formal policies,
procedures and controls should assign responsibilities and deadlines and include
documentation requirements in respect of compliance.
34. Management Information Systems : PB produced various reports which were used
as a tool for management decisions but were not integrated. The consultants
proposed that a MIS needed to be readily available to assist the management in
managing decisions.
35. Next Steps: The Ministry of Finance had called for expression of interest from
qualified persons in international commercial banking for the post of advisor to the
state banks. In addition, both banks need to prepare a restructuring plan. The central
bank and the MOF are in the process of submitting their proposals to the President for
the restructuring of the banks.
59



Annex 10
COMPLIANCE OF ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AS AT 30TH JUNE 1999
Criteria                  DFCC          NDB          HNB       SAMPATH
March 99      Dec. 98     Dec. 98       Dec. 98
Collection Ratio (Principal)                  89.9        88.8          NA            88.6
Collection Ratio (Principal + Interest)       85.7        86.1          NA            83.9
After tax profit as a % of average            13.9         15.8        20.9          23.3
shareholder funds
Debt Service Cover Ratio                       1.6         2.2          NA             9.0
Portfolio Infection Ratio                      7.3         11.7         7.0           10.9
Debt Equity Ratio                              2.7         4.8          3.8            7.1
Capital Adequacy -Tier 1                      20.6         16.5         8.2           11.4
Capital Adequacy - Tier 2                     20.6         14.4        11.4           12.5
Single Sector Exposure                        17.2        26.0        62.3             8.6
Single Borrower Exposure                       3.0         NA           2.9            2.3
Source: Audited Accounts of National Development Bank, DFCC, Hatton National Bank and
Sampath Bank
This represents export, import, trading, financial, housing, consumption and miscellaneous.
60



Annex 11
(Page 1 of 5)
BRIEF NOTE ON SITE VISITS
1. The PFDP administration unit at the National Development Bank (NDB) assisted in identifying a
random sample of eight companies representing sub sectors funded under the PFDP and organized
site visits. The sub sectors covered by the site visits were ceramics, garments, food processing,
packaging, rubber and hotel sectors. Mr. S. Doranegoda from the NDB also joined the mission.
The mission specially focussed on the long term sustainability of the sub projects visited and
issues relating to environment, gender and child labor. The projects visited were as follows:
2. Eden Hotel Limited: The hotel was established in 1994 in Kalutara District. It has 158 rooms
and caters to an up-market foreign clientele (80%), mostly from Germany and other European
countries. They have entered into an agreement with SAGAR international on marketing. The
turnover for the past 3 years had an annual average of US$2.8 million, with a net profit of about 4-
5%. The occupancy rate during the off-season was about 65% while occupancy during the season
reached 100% and was always well above the breakeven occupancy rate.
3. Labor: The hotel had a cadre of 310 employees during season and 275 employees during off
season. 30% of the staff were females and had a large number of casual workers. The labor
turnover was reported to be a high 20%, way above the industry average of 10%, mainly because
of the demand for trained staff in Colombo and Maldives. The hotel management had placed high
priority on staff development such as literacy improvement and client relations. Meals and
accommodation are being provided. The average monthly wage was around US$140 with
overtime and service charge. The average age of staff was about 25 years.
4. Environment: The management seemed to be aware of current environmental practices and had
already introduced an energy conservation system, a heat recovery system and waste water
treatment plant.
5. Tropic Frozen Foods Ltd. (TFFL) : The company commenced operations in 1996 as a BOI
company and had been exporting tuna fish for the "sashimi" market in Japan and Europe. In
addition to exporting, they had diversified into deep sea fishing in order to obtain high quality fish
required by the Japanese market. Their annual turnover had been between US$4-7 million. They
also had a marketing strategy of providing for Japanese and European markets while the residual
was marketed locally. They had 3 fishing vessels and had acquired modem technology to retain
the freshness for 30 days and had Japanese technical experts to advise them on new techniques to
maintain high quality. They plan to expand their fleet as they have gauged that there is high
market potential for this product in the future. According to them, the commercial banks had been
reluctant to provide credit to high-risk, new industries while the development banks had assisted
them in project financing.
6. Labor: The company had 75 - 80 employees, all ex-navy officers. This being a strenuous job the
monthly wages were relatively high and ranged from US$120 - 415 which could be considered
attractive in Sri Lanka. This is mainly a male-dominant industry.
7. Environment : They maintain high quality standards required by the Japanese market. The
factory visited by the mission reflected excellent hygienic standards required of a food processing
plant. They also had an arrangement to dispose of their daily waste.
61



Annex 11
(Page 2 of 5)
8. Lux Shirts (Pvt.) Ltd.: The company had been incorporated in 1986 but had obtained BOI status
in 1992. This company specializes in ladies wear. Mast International has 50% equity shares in the
company. They supply well known labels such as Liz Claiborne, Sag Huggers and Marks &
Spencer. The group had also diversified into manufacturing accessories ( buttons, hangers) in
order to increase value added. The total turnover during 1998 was US$11. 4 million with a net
profit of 8%. The company was 100% export oriented and the markets are in USA, Canada and
Europe.
9. Labor: Of the total staff of 850, 90% are female. The company had three houses for
accommodation for about 100 employees from distant places. The minimum monthly wage was
about US$48. They also provided performance based incentive payments. Company had its own
cafeteria and meals were provided at subsidized rates. They had also set up a training school
specially as the skilled labor was expensive. The labor turnover of 5% was seen as a major
problem. As there were many garment factories in the area, they found it difficult to retain the
employees unless they were provided with an attractive compensation package. The management
was in the process of training their supervisory staff on behavioral aspects. The management was
well aware of the new human resource development techniques and they had a participatory
management style.
10. Environment: It is not a polluting industry. They have subcontracted the disposal of waste.
11. Manchester Yarn & Thread (Pvt.) LTD (MYTL): The company manufactures thread and yarn
and has a market of 30% in Sri Lanka. They provide their products as inputs to export oriented
industries and therefore they are considered indirect exporters and is eligible for BOI status. In
1998/99 their annual turnover was US$5.6 million with a profit of 10%. They also intend to
expand their production capacity and proceed with automation of the factory. This is a strategy to
address labor shortage. In addition, they also plan to set up a plant in Bangladesh. They have
exported a small proportion of their products to India and Middle Eastern countries. MYTL has
American & Efird, Inc. as their international technical partner and Mast as their equity partner.
They had set up a Marks & Spencer accredited laboratory for testing the quality of yarn.
12. Labor: Of a total of 220 employees, 95% are male. Staff turnover was around 2%. Unlike in the
garment industry, the employment opportunities for the skilled labor in this sector was limited.
The employees have been given production incentives. Minimum monthly wage with over time is
about US$50 (after statutory deductions) and average wage for low skilled labor is about US$70.
They are also taking part in a 5S productivity contest which seems to have made the workers
improve their level of productivity.
13. Environment- They were well aware of environmental regulations and had a water recycling
plant.
14. Ceylon Biscuits Ltd.(CBL): They manufacture biscuits mainly for the local market and 10% is
for exports. The annual turnover in 1998 was US$17.0 million with an annual profit of 10%.
Profits have been on an upward trend during the last few years. They claim to have a market share
of 45% in Sri Lanka and exports are to USA, Canada, Middle East and India. They have plans to
set up three plants in India to penetrate the Indian market. They work through a nation-wide
distribution system and also train their dealers how to maintain the quality of their products. They
also claim to import most of their requirements (wrappers, labels, cartons) as they do not seem to
be satisfied with the standards of the local products.
62



Annex 11
(Page 3 of 5)
15. Labor: Of a total of 655 employees, 595 were female. They seemed to maintain 40% of their
cadre on casual basis. Accommodation had been provided to female workers. The factory was in
operation for 24 hours with three shifts. The average monthly salary was about US$100 and the
employees got three month's salary as an annual bonus. The company had provided training in
Japan for their plant managers.
16. Environment: The mission noted that the hygienic standards required for a food processing plant
is not maintained. However, they have an incinerator to bum all the waste.
17. Micro Packaging Pvt. Ltd. (MPPL): The company was established in 1995 as a BOI company.
They are manufacturing corrugated cardboard boxes exclusively for export companies. The
company is labor intensive and caters to small and medium exporters who need a small quantities.
The turnover of 98/99 was US$1.3 million with a profit of 5%. They are in the process of
launching an expansion project and purchasing more modern equipment to produce better
products.
18. Labor: Out of a total of 100 employees, only 8 were females. Minimum monthly wage was
about US$60. Two bonuses have granted annually as well as performance based incentives. The
average age of employees was 35 years. Training was provided locally and the company is a
member of the National Chamber of Industries. In addition, free breakfast is provided for the
staff.
19. Environment: The waste is disposed efficiently. However, the mission observed that the
expansion of the project will lead to noise pollution in the neighborhood.
20. Samson Sportswear Ltd.: The company was established in 1997 and produces rubber shoes,
slippers, and PVC shoes. The products were meant for exports, however due to competition from
China and Indonesia they had not been able to penetrate the export market. Currently they are
negotiating with a buyer and also had participated in trade fairs in China, Australia, Japan and
Dubai. Currently they are marketing their products in the local market and are planning to launch
an expansion project and increase export production.
21. Labor: Of a total 210 employees, only 22 were male. 98% of the employees were from the
neighboring village. The location was chosen to create employment in the area. The management
had an agreement with a private bus company to provide transport to the employees. A subsidized
breakfast was provided to all the employees. In addition to their wages, the employees receive an
incentive bonus which was a percentage of the profits. They also provided incentives for
attendance and productivity. Management maintained savings accounts for all employees which
they could use as collateral for obtaining loans after three years. Management style was
participatory. Employees had been encouraged to express new ideas which are considered for
promotion and higher compensation. Team work is always encouraged. They also participate in
5S productivity contest. The management is well aware of modern management techniques to
motivate the staff. The machine repairs and renovations are done by few girls under the guidance
of qualified technicians which is very impressive. They seem to have a close relationship with the
neighboring village which provided security and they also carried out community work in the
village.
22. Environment: Waste rubber had been recycled. They have used innovative ideas to maintain a
cleaner production floor. As they obtain their raw material from another company they are not a
high polluter.
63



Annex 11
(Page 4 of 5)
23. Lanka Ceramics Ltd. (Negombo Ceramics Factory (NCF)): The company manufactures
ceramic tableware and insulators. The loan funded under PFDP was taken to set up a plant to
manufacture insulators for Ceylon Electricity Board and Lanka Telecom. Since the plant was set
up in collaboration with a Japanese company, the quality of the product was specified according to
Japanese standards which was expensive. However, the buyers' standards are much lower and the
products are not competitively priced any more. Unfortunately with their previous life as a state
corporation they seem to believe they could still use political influence to get orders. This
company either needs to enter into a joint venture with a foreign company or else close the
insulator plant and concentrate on tableware and ornaments which are profitable operations.
24. Labor: Of a total of 517 employees, 67 were in the manufacturing of insulators. Only 19 were
females. 70% - 80% of the employees were from the neighborhood. The average monthly wage
was US$35-65 and they are provided with meals, travel and an attendance bonus. There was a
medical center within the premises for emergency treatment.
25. Environment: They treat waste water and were aware of pollution measures. NCF is planning to
set up pollution control systems using PCAF.
26. Findings of the Mission:
27. Sustainability: Except for one company (NCF), all the other companies would be sustainable in
the long run. Despite the fact that economic conditions are sluggish and there is stiff competition
from imports, all the companies are making average profits and are in the process of expanding
their operations further. It was also notable that companies are well aware of the market
conditions specially the international markets and are geared to face competition either by catering
to a niche market (TFFL, MYTC) or joining up with foreign technical and equity partners. Some
companies have relocated some of the operations in foreign countries (CBL, MYTC). Except for
NCF, none of the companies indicated that that they require support from the government which is
a positive indication. The mission believes that all the projects visited have long term
sustainability except for NCF.
28. Labor: The mission noted that most of the companies faced high labor turnover, especially the
hotel and gannents sectors. Therefore, the management seemed to have adopted incentives such
as free meals, accommodation and training to retain staff. In addition, they also have adopted
modern management techniques to motivate the staff, especially a participatory approach in
improving the work environment. In one of the companies, the employees who provided
innovative and cost effective ideas had been rewarded and had been considered for promotions. In
addition, most of them participated in productivity improvement contests and the employees
seemed to enjoy doing their tasks.
29. Environment : The awareness of environmental issues was impressive. Especially in the hotels
and garments factories, the companies themselves had undertaken the initiative of introducing
pollution control measures. However, the mission noted that the environmental regulatory
authority had not visited the companies on a regular basis and the compliance monitoring was very
weak. This can be considered a major constraint in introducing better pollution control methods in
the country. However, the awareness of the public on environmental issues seems to be high
which serves as a deterrent to the polluters. Another remarkable feature is that the work force is
well educated and the management seems to be considering pollution control and abatement as a
mechanism to minimize production cost. However, most of the factories indicated that the
graduates do not like to work in the private sector and they consider employment in the private
64



Annex 11
(Page 5 of 5)
sector as a stop-gap. In addition, the recent (1999) wave of recruitment of graduates by the
government also had given wrong signals to the collage graduates.
30. Safety Measures: Even though safety equipment had been provided in the factories, the
workforce had opted not to use them claiming discomfort. The workers should be educated on use
safety equipment for their personal safety.
31. Gender Issues: It was quite notable that the labor seem to be enlightened on their rights. Most
of the managers seem to realize that in order to curb high labor turnover they need to motivate the
workers. They also have provided equal opportunity for women workers. At the rubber products
company the mission observed that from management downwards the operations are handled by
women. In addition, they have even recruited women for machine fabrication and repairs.
Women seem to feel empowered and there is labor mobility. However, there seems to be a
preference for unmarried women in most of the factories (garment, rubber products) and we also
noted that no facilities are provided for young mothers which is a common factor in Sri Lanka.
This may be an issue that needs to be addressed with the increasing female workforce.
32. Child Labor: None of the companies had children working in their factories as it is illegal in Sri
Lanka. Even though the workforce is young specially in garments and rubber, the average age
was around 25-30.
65






Appendix A
Sri Lanka
Private Finance Development Project (PFDP Cr.2484-CE)
Supervision Mission - August 1999
Aide Memoire
1.     A World Bank mission comprising Ms. Sriyani Hulugalle and Ms. Madhuwanthi Opatha
(consultant) conducted an implementation completion mission of the above project from August 10-31. We
appreciate the hospitality and the cooperation extended to the mission by the Govemment of Sri Lanka
(GOSL), the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP), the Central Bank (CBSL), the National
Development Bank (NDB), Bank Supervision Department, Financial Markets Department (FMD), Public
Debt Department and Banking Department of CBSL, Private Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and
all other state and private financial institutions. This aide memoire reflects the mission's findings and is
subject to review by IDA management.
2.     The project supports: (i) financial sector policy and regulatory reform to improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation; (ii) domestic resource mobilization for long term investments by stimulating
development of local bond markets; (iii) the private sector by providing investment finance; and (iv)
deepening of the financial system and strengthening the key players including CBSL, MOFP, and
contractual savings institutions (CSIs). The mission reviewed progress made on the elements necessary to
fulfill the objectives of the credit, identified and discussed the issues and made recommendations. In
addition, the mission discussed the process of preparing the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) with
the relevant government agencies.
Investment Credit Component
3 .    By March 31, 1998, the credit component was fully committed; (68% above free limit; the
average loan size was about Rs. 8.8 million). The disbursements amounted to US$ 54.6 million or 96% of
the approved amount. Although the PCIs included three commercial banks and the two Development
Finance Institutions (DFIs), the DFIs accounted for 95% of the total disbursements (NDB 46%, DFCC
49%). According to the number of subloans approved, DFCC accounted for 62% while the NDB accounted
for 33%( Annex 1: Tablel). The project assisted in generating capital investment of US$ 137.1 million in
the industrial sector while the total employment generated was approximately 12,184.
4.     The metal, chemical and plastic sub-sector led the lending portfolio (20.7%) under the PFDP
followed by the services sector (17.5%), hotel sector (16.0%), textiles and garments (11.6%) and rubber
and leather (9%) (Annex 1 : Table 2). At the outset, the disbursements were slow as there were other lines
of credit available for small and medium scale industries from IDA and Asian Development Bank(ADB)
during the initial periods. At the later stages except for the DFIs, other banks had excess liquidity with the
slump in the stock market as well as the reduction in reserve requirements of commercial banks by the
Central Bank. Of the approved sub-loans 80% was concentrated in Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha
districts followed by 11.2% in Kandy and Matale, 3.4% in Galle and 3.2% in Anuradhapura. (Annex 1:
Table 3). The continuing ethnic conflict and inadequate physical and economic infrastructure outside the
western province contributes to this high concentration. Same trend has been reflected in other lines of
credit as well. In addition, it has also been reported that the companies find it difficult to attract
professionals out of the Western Province due to lack of physical and social infrastructure facilities.
5.     The textiles sector led the employment generation with 31 % followed by Metal and Chemical
sector with 18%, services with 12%, rubber and leather with 10% and hotels with 9%. Geographical
distribution of employment creation almost reflects the same trend except for Galle where employment
generation was significantly high with 11 % compared to the credit disbursement of 3.4%. (Annex I : Table
2 & 3 )
6.     As agreed with the last mission, the NDB had coordinated with the participating credit agencies
(PCIs) and expedited the disbursements to ensure optimal utilization of funds.



7.     As shown in Annex I:Table 4, the DFCC , NDB and Sampath Bank continue to meet the
minimum required cumulative collection ratios of 80%. Except for HNB, all others provided the collection
ratios and they have improved substantially over the previous year. All met the minimum debt service
cover ratio of 1.25. All of them continue to be above the required minimum capital adequacy ratios (Tier
1- 4% Tier II - 8%) and are below the maximum portfolio infection ratio of 20%. All the PCI audited
annual accounts and the project account for 1998 were submitted. All the PCIs submitted audit certification
of eligibility criteria as requested. All have complied with the required conditions except for HNB. The
government and the CBSL need to follow-up the performance of the HNB very closely to ensure that they
follow the single borrower and sector exposure limits
Policy Framework Component
8.     Insurance Sector: There was progress reported in this sector during 1999. According to PERC,
the National Insurance Corporation (NIC) is expected to be privatized in 1999. However, the mission feels
that it will be postponed to year 2000. A steering committee to restructure NIC has been set up with
representation from PERC, MOFP, NIC, CBSL which can be considered a significant step in the right
direction. The Cabinet has approved divesting up to 39% of NIC and also there is no restriction on foreign
investor participation. It was also reported that the committee had initiated discussions with the employees
of NIC to ensure their support for restructuring. If this proves to be successful, the GOSL is likely to
proceed with the divestment of SLIC too.
9.     The progress in terms the Insurance Bill has been exceedingly slow. The final legal clearance has
been obtained and the Bill is expected to be presented to Parliament before the end of 1999. The Mission
wishes to express serious concern about this delay. Despite repeated assurance given by the MOFP during
the last few years, the law has not been enacted The mission noted that there seems to be lack of
leadership for this activity unlike for the rest of the activities in the financial sector reform program.
10.    Accounting and Auditing Standards: The Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring
Board (AASMB) has been established and a Director General has also been appointed. The Act provides
for the AASMB to be responsible for monitoring compliance with the standards. In 1999 February, all the
standards were gazetted as informed and all the companies listed or specified in the regulations are
required to comply with the standards for the annual audits of 1999. The secretariat of the AASMB was
constituted after some delay and has a skeleton staff. However, the effectiveness of monitoring
compliance by this institution is yet to be seen as they will commence compliance monitoring officially
only in year 2000. They have already prepared the procedures for compliance monitoring. In addition,
both Central Bank and the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) require the banks and listed companies
respectively to follow the gazetted accounting standards to bring in better financial management as agreed
earlier. A cess is to be imposed on all companies to generate revenue for the Board but has not decided on
the amount. AASMB plans to commence with reviewing annual accounts at the initial stage. The salaries
of the staff of the AASMB have been referred to the Treasury for clearance. A recent cabinet decision
requires salaries and cadre of all statutory boards be reviewed by the Treasury. The mission emphasized
that it is important that the staff of regulatory authorities be compensated adequately if they are to function
effectively. The mission feels that this decision will hamper not only the recruitment of stafffor AASMB but
also for all the other existing andproposed regulatory authorities. If competitive salaries are not offered,
the Board will not be able to attract qualified and competent people and would not be able to function as it
intends to be.
II.    State Commercial Banks (SCBs) : Both SCB performance in terms of the performance contract
has been unsatisfactory. As seen in the Annex 1 : Table 5, Bank of Ceylon (BOC) failed to reach the
agreed targets on profits, return on assets and return on capital but achieved loan recovery targets, staff and
overhead costs. Peoples' Bank (PB), however, has not achieved any of the targets agreed except loan
recovery for 1998. Non-performing loans have reached a significantly high level and required provisioning
would entail significant capital infusion. This would be the third capital infusion during a period of 6
years.
12.    According to the CBSL evaluation report, the government had not issued any directives to any of
the two banks during 1998 and 1999. After an evaluation by a committee consisting of CBSL and MOFP,
both banks have been requested to adopt a uniform transfer pricing system. Even though the loss making
2



branches have been reduced none of the loss making branches were closed during the year due to political
resistance. However, the option of achieving economies of scale by rationalizing the branch network
through mergers of branches has been exercised and PB has merged six branches into three.
13.    The portfolio audits were completed by the consultants in June 1999. The Central Bank and
MOFP, have taken measures to bring in advisors to the two state banks with international commercial
banking experience and also the BOC is planning to conduct a study to explore the possibility of
restructuring the bank and there is a likelihood of a management contract for the state banks in the future.
The Central Bank's assessment is that BOC is aggressively marketing their services to retain their market
share trying to improve their competitiveness and have prudent levels of provisioning. The mission feels
that the appointment of consultants would not be effective as they have no decision making capacity and
IDA has already conveyed its concerns and proposed other options for the government to consider
improving and resurrecting the two state banks. The government delegation is expected to discuss this
issue further at the annual meeting in Washington in September.
Implementation of Legislative Amendments
14.    Amendments to the Banking Act: The 1995 amendments to the Banking Act strengthened the
supervisory powers of the CBSL and extended supervision to development (DFCC, NDB, SMIB) and
savings banks (NSB, Pramuka Savings bank and Sanasa Savings and Development Bank) and incorporated
all prudential requirements based on international standards. CBSL continued its efforts in improving bank
supervision, monetary policy environment and domestic resource mobilization in 1999 too.
15.    Measures Taken to Further Improve Bank Supervision by CBSL: In 1999 other specialized
banks such Pramuka, SANASA and 6 regional banks were also brought under the supervision of the CBSL
and CBSL continued its efforts in improving bank supervision specially in the light of the recent East
Asian financial crisis. The following measures have been introduced to strengthen Bank Supervision
Department(BSD) since the last IDA supervision mission in January 1999.
a To increase public disclosure of financial data relating to the Licensed Commercial Banks (LCBs),
formats were designed and instructions were issued to LCBs to publish in the press their annual
audited accounts and half yearly accounts beginning from December 1998 and is in operation. It is
proposed to extend these requirements to the Licensed Specialized Banks (LSBs) as well.
e  CBSL approved and compiled a panel of auditors for conducting bank audits in May 1998. In addition,
auditing guidelines have been issued to external auditors. Their performance is closely monitored by
the CBSL.
*  The banks were requested by CBSL in September 1998 to appoint compliance officers at a senior level
to ensure compliance in respect of banking and other statutory requirements. Compliance officers
have been appointed by all LCBs and LSBs. Avenues of communications have improved significantly
and the Central Bank has planned a seminar to get a feed back from all the compliance officers during
the fourth quarter of 1999.
*  Consultants funded by SIDA completed a feasibility study for bank supervision including upgrading
the regulatory mechanism, supervisory capacity and staff development. USAID consultants are helping
the CSBL to develop a software package to facilitate data processing for off-site surveillance for
LCBs. The first phase has been completed with the automation of 14 reporting formats. It is proposed
to reactivate this program under the second phase in collaboration with the SIDA consultants. The
Central Bank requires the consultants to computerize all formats and also consolidate and streamline
the formats. However, with Y2K remedial activities being given high priority, this is getting delayed.
*  A scheme, for bringing Foreign Currency Banking Units' (FCBU) operations under the Banking Act,
has been finalized and will be gazetted before the end of 1999. A policy paper on the applicability of
the provisions of the Banking Act and Monetary Law Act (MLA) and issues relating to the
introduction of prudential regulations for FCBUs is under discussion. Monitoring banks' foreign
exposure is considered high priority in Central Bank's agenda following the recent East Asian crisis.
3



*  Bank Supervision Department (BSD) prepared formats for monitoring the foreign exchange exposure
of banks. These formats were discussed with the banks, pilot data are being collected on a 3-month
trial basis. Once these data are evaluated final formats will be introduced to the banks. In addition, the
Central Bank will also issue routine guidelines to the banks before the end of 1999.
*  The draft amendments to the Banking Act relating to licensing procedures, revocation of licenses, fit
and proper test for bank management, appointment and removal of bank directors and senior
management, merger of banks, cease and desist orders, liquidation and closure of banks will be
forwarded to the legal authorities. The draft amendments are expected to be presented to the Cabinet
before the end of 1999.
*  An USAID consultant has completed a feasibility study for setting up a mandatory deposit insurance
scheme for all commercial banks. The ensuing revisions made by the consultants are being reviewed.
The CBSL expects to implement a mandatory deposit insurance scheme once the action plans have
been prepared which may take more than a year and the scheme is likely to be operative during the
year 2001.
16.    The BSD staff is at present about 80 of which 50 are professional staff. The training of examiners
has been intensified by setting up a training faculty for bank supervision in the CBSL in mid 1998 and
three specialists with commercial banking and bank supervision expertise were recruited. CBSL continued
with training in 1999. In addition, four workshops on (a) Supervision of credit risk, (b) Intemal Controls
(c) Foreign exchange management and identification of foreign exchange risk and (4) Early warning
signals were held in 1999. Twelve professional staff received overseas training while 49 attended local
training courses up to end of August 1999.
17.    During 1999, the Central Bank had further stepped up their supervision capacity of the Central
Bank and the Monetary Board has seen this as one of the most important functions of the Central Bank. In
view of the recent East Asian crisis the Central Bank has identified the need to keep the foreign exchange
exposure of the banks also under close scrutiny. In addition, the BSD is to be re-organized by establishing
specialized units.
Measures taken by CBSL to Strengthen Monetary Policy Management and Domestic Resource
Mobilization
18.    The Central Bank continued its efforts in 1999 in improving domestic resource mobilization still
further. As informed, a new methodology for liquidity assessment based on daily automated data
transmission has been introduced. Already the open market operations (OMO) are being conducted at an
increased scale and currently data on liquidity are received from about 20 banks. However, all the banks do
not submit required information on a daily basis as agreed. Therefore, the Banking Department of the
CBSL needs to still make their own liquidity estimates. The delay and non-compliance can be partly
attributed to the computer systems being subjected to Y2K readiness. In addition, the banks seem to be
having data transmission problems. The industrial action taken by the bank employees' unions during the
first part of 1999 contributed to data transmission problems. However, the Banking Department of the
Central is exploring ways and means of enforcing this mandatory requirement for them to obtain
information on a regular basis to further improve open market operations.
19.    The most important step taken during the period under review was the introduction of long term
treasury bonds commencing with the two year treasury bonds with fixed coupon rate of interest in March
1997. Treasury bonds to the tune of about Rs. 67.5 Billion would be issued in 1999 of which treasury
bonds with 5 year maturities amounting to Rs. 4 Billion would be issued. Six year treasury bonds are to be
issued in September 1999 for the first time. CBSL is also taking measures to expand the volume of treasury
bonds to match the rate at which rupee securities are maturing and eventually the rupee securities will be
phased out. However, at the moment the stock of rupee securities amounts to Rs. 255.3 Billion as at end of
August 1999.
20.    The CBSL has also approved accepting treasury bonds as collateral for reverse repurchase which
promotes developing the secondary market for the long term government securities. In order to enforce
4



requirements for creating a market and specifying a minimum level of participation in the primary auctions
and secondary markets, the public debt department has issued guidelines on minimum level of participation
for primary dealers in treasury bill and bond auctions which are being monitored continuously. Inactive
primary dealers are being de-listed.
21.    The CBSL has requested the primary dealers to set up their own separate companies in order to
develop the government debt securities market; primary and secondary. They are to be dedicated only to
trading in government securities. At present most of them are commercial banks and there is conflict of
interest in promoting debt instruments. At present, CBSL has a stock of Rs. 200 Billion worth of short and
long term government securities for trading. However, in the long run, the mission proposed that they
should be permitted to trade corporate bonds as well to develop the secondary market. In addition, the
primary dealers were required to prepare their code of conduct. As it had not yet been done, CBSL is
planning to draft them while USAID informed the mission that they are in the process of drafting them. A
study on primary dealer surveillance was expected to commence in September 1999 but has been
postponed due to the non availability of some of the consultants proposed. However, CBSL is keen to set
up a surveillance system to monitor the primary dealers as they play a major role in government securities
market. Therefore, this study is an integral part of the main reform program and the development of the
debt market. A private company has developed a trade matching system for the primary dealers which will
be purchased by them once the new companies are formalized. CBSL indicated that they would require
international technical assistance at the initial stage of their market oriented OMO operations.
22.    CBSL has completed a feasibility study to automate the CBSL and inter bank transactions in order
to introduce a scripless trading system for government securities and set up Real Time Gross Settlement
systems (RTGS). These measures are aimed at strengthening the open market operations, improving the
effectiveness of monetary instruments and the development of a secondary market for government debt
securities. Consultants assisted the CBSL to design a system and drawing up technical specifications for
hardware and software in order to set up a scripless securities settlement system and electronic fund
transfer system. Mission was informed by the CBSL that the current volume of transactions is not
sufficient to justify initial investment that is required. Therefore, the CBSL is exploring other options.
However, the proposed system in addition to quick settlement, would facilitate cheque clearing in districts
outside Colombo. In addition, the CBSL finds it difficult to issue bonds with longer term maturities
exceeding 6 years without scripless trading. Foreign participation in government securities would also not
be possible with the current manual system. Even though the CBSL is in the process of developing
software to establish a scripless system with the expertise available in-house, with the other priorities such
as Y2K remedial measures in the banking sector, the work will proceed slowly. Hence, it would have been
better to set up the system proposed by the consultants as soon as possible. This will inevitably increase the
volume of transactions and the fund transfer system will significantly improve. At present due to the long
transaction time taken the transactions are limited and create market distortions. In addition, the securities
market has been confined to Colombo. The mission feels that if the Central Bank expedite the automation
of banking sector and scripless trading, the market participants will also increase significantly.
23.    The Cabinet has already approved the proposed amendments to the Monetary Law Act to (a)
make price stability the main objective of CBSL in order to avoid possible policy conflicts (b) revise the
definition of money supply to take into account "broad money", (c) remove the maximum and minimum
limits on statutory reserve ratios, (d) provide more flexibility to the Monetary Board to decide the basis for
computation of the required reserves (e) enable payment of interest on reserves, and (f) enable imposition
of reserve requirements on the financial liabilities other than deposit liabilities. The Legal Draftsman is
making minor revisions after receiving observations the Attorney General and amendments are expected to
be submitted to the Parliament by end of 1999. However, as the legislative procedure takes a long time, the
mission feels that it is likely to get postponed to the first quarter of 2000.
24.    CBSL has promoted the setting up of a Credit Rating Agency(CRA) in collaboration with the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) as informed earlier. The CRA has been established as ajoint
venture public company with a leading international rating agency in USA and other international and local
financial institutions. The office will be operational from October 1999 and the CEO and the key staff have
been recruited and been given initial training overseas by their international technical partner. This is
5



expected to assist in developing the debt market by servicing the investors and there is a possibility of
permitting foreign investor participation.
25.    Another significant step for domestic resource mobilization was the decision of the Central Bank
to diversify EPF investment portfolio. A consultant has prepared investment guidelines for the Employees
Provident Fund (EPF) and also the selection criteria for external fund managers. In addition, the PFDP
provided partial funding for the development of internal portfolio management expertise and it is expected
to be continued under the proposed PHRD Preparation Grant for pension reforms. The EPF is in the
process of implementing the recommendations of the study. As the investment guidelines have been
prepared, EPF intends to further diversify its investment portfolio. EPF has also embarked on a
computerization and modernization program in order to improve its operational efficiency and keep abreast
of the changing technological development.
26.    In addition, proposals are being explored to amalgamate the EPF and Employees Trust Fund
(ETF) to minimize administration costs. The ETF is reportedly exploring possibilities of converting the
ETF to a pension fund and also annuatizing the payments. However, the mission proposed that it would be
advisable to take this measure after careful study and also conducting a proper actuarial assessment to
ensure the sustainability of such a scheme. Measures are also being taken by the EPF to eliminate double
counting and eliminate a large number of dormant accounts once the computerization exercise is completed
by Labor Department and the EPF. In addition, in 1999, the EPF has been able to absorb all administration
cost by way of capital gains from operations in the secondary market for treasury bonds and equities.
27.    The DFIs and the private domestic commercial banks informed the mission of the absence of low
cost funds and also the issue of raising funds in local as well as international markets. The annual accounts
for 1997 and 1998 reflect a significant increase in their deposit base by 24. 3% and 22.4% respectively. In
addition, there were medium term debenture issues by financial institutions to raise funds amounting to Rs.
3.9 Billion during the last two years. Most of the banks argued that they have a mismatch of funds; short
term deposits which need to be matched with long term investment needs. Development Finance
Institutions (DFIs) are facing the problem of lack of funds specially as they are not deposit taking
institutions. However, with the drying up of multilateral funds on concessionary terms, the banks are
exploring possibilities of using innovative financial instruments to be more competitive in the financial
sector.
28.    Y2K Readiness: CBSL has already obtained a loan of US$ 29 million from IDA to address Y2K
issues in the banking and other critical government agencies. CBSL has already set up a Y2K Unit and
with staff drawn from the bank supervision and information technology departments have started
monitoring and assisting the banks to ensure that they will be compliant. By August, 5 domestic
commercial banks and 4 specialized banks were reported Y2K compliant. In the case of foreign banks,
their Y2k projects are controlled by their parent company. Except for 2 foreign banks, all others had
completed remediation and implementation of their Y2K activities. At present an independent audit of
Y2K activities is in progress. All the banks were required by the CBSL to publish their Y2K readiness in
their annual audit report for 1998 which has been complied with. In addition, the CBSL is preparing a
contingency plan for the financial sector while all the banks are also in the process of preparing individual
contingency plans for their own organizations. With the leadership given by the CBSL, Mission is satisfied
with the progress so far.
Technical Assistance Component
29.    The total technical assistance available under PFDP has been fully committed (Annex 2). As of
August the total disbursements reached US$ 3.1 million. The US$ component has increased with the
increased depreciation of the Dollar against the SDR. In addition, KfW provided US$ 5 million for PCAF
and USAID provided US$ 6.2 million for capital market development which came to a close in October
1997.
30.    As agreed with the mission, the Central Bank completed all 4 consultancy assignments despite the
tight time schedule and industrial action by the banking sector trade unions. The banking automation study
and the EPF portfolio management study were completed as agreed. The portfolio audits of the two state
banks were also carried out due to the close cooperation provided by the staff of the two state banks despite
6



trade union action. In addition, funds were also made available for CBSL, MOFP and PCI training during
the first half of 1999 which was reported by the participants to have been very effective.
31.    CBSL has already initiated the procurement process of obtaining the services of consultants for:
*  the preparation of legislation for supervision of merchant banks.
*  the formulation of a legal framework for licensing and supervision of money and foreign
exchange brokers and,
However, the funds are not available under any of the on-going projects.
Environmental Sub Component
32.    Pollution Control and Abatement Fund (PCAF): KFW, provided GOSL with US$ 5 million
for the PCAF. The NDB administered this fund on behalf of the GOSL. The fund became operative in
April 1995 and was fully committed. Already they have approved Rs. 331.4. million for 88 projects. Of
the total projects, they are distributed evenly among all sectors; textiles, food and beverages, agro-
industries and fisheries, rubber, plastic and leather and hotel sector. Of these, 52% were located in
Colombo, Gampaha and Kalutara while the other significant area was Puttalam where prawn farms were
concentrated. fn addition, KFW provided an additional US$ 3.5 million for the PCAF. Another line of
credit of US $ 22.0 million has been signed up by the OECF called "E-friends". The scope of the OECF
project is broader than the PCAF. In addition, to the new projects they have also included energy
conservation.
33.    CleaNet: CleaNet was set up to support PCAF through awareness and technical support. As
agreed with the mission, the funds committed for the CleaNet were fully committed and disbursed. With
the guidance and close monitoring of the advisory committee headed by the NDB, the funds were utilized
for out- reach programs, training, equipment and public awareness. Both implementing agencies; Ceylon
Chamber of Commerce and Industrial Technology Institute, during the last one year had effectively
functioned to create a core technical team. They have already approached another IDA funded
environment project to fund their future activities and the proposal is being reviewed by the government
counterpart organization.
42.    Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR): The Borrower has been
informed of the ICR process, specially that the government need to prepare the borrower's report. The
mission was informed that the implementing agencies have been requested by the Department of External
Resources to prepare the borrower's report. The draft ICR will be circulated to the government and the
other team members by end of October 1999. In addition, already a beneficiary survey form has been
administered to 100 companies funded under the PFDP. The mission also plans to visit a selected number
of projects to ascertain how the companies address child labor, gender and environmental issues. The
preparation of the ICR is on schedule.
7



Attachment 1
SRILANKA
PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PFDP)
(LK-PE-10419)
Progress in Implementing Financial Sector Policies
(As of August 30, 1999)
Description of Agreed Actions      Original/    Revised     Status                   Comments
Previous    Target
target date   Date
1. As per GOSL's Statement of
Financial Sector Policy (SFSP) dated
March 5,1993
(a) Restructuring of state owned
Commercial banks(SCBS)
Amend the Bank of Ceylon (BOC)     None         March 31,  Complied          The initial draft of the
Ordinance and the Peoples Bank (PB)             1998                         proposed amendments were
Act to enable SCBs to function as                                            approved by the Cabinet in
autonomous commercial organizations                                          October 1994. But, the
presentation to the Parliament
was deferred on various
issues considering it
politically sensitive. The
amendments were
incorporated in the
agreements signed with the
two state banks.
Strengthen the SCBs' Board of      None                     Partial          BOC complied.
Directors by appointing three new                           compliance       PB not complied.
members (with relevant professional
qualifications and/or extensive
business experience) on the Board of
BOC with total strength of 7 members
and 3 new members on the PB Board
with total strength of 10 members
Establish a mechanism for dealing with  None                Complied         They have set up special units
the larger bad loans of SCBs.                                                to recover bad debt. Both
have increased their recovery
levels.
Control the Administrative costs of the   1995              Partial          The targets have been revised
SCBs, improve credit discipline in                          Compliance       in the new agreements.
their lending, reduce their                                                  However the first review has
intermediation costs, achieve                                                revealed that the two state
profitability levels comparable to                                           banks have not complied with
those of the private banks operating in                                      the performance targets
Sri Lanka within two years of their                                          agreed. IDA has indicated to
recapitalization                                                             the GOSL to initiate private
management contracts.



Although the following are not                              Partial         Annual audits: complied.
specifically stated in SFSP, IDA's                          Compliance      Management action plans are
supervision missions monitored SCBs'                                         prepared and discussed with
fulfillment of conditions for the                                           the management monthly.
recapitalization in 1993 agreed                                              Annual corporate plans are
between the GOSL and the SCBs.                                               prepared and quarterly MIS
These include : annual audits by                                             reports are submitted to the
international auditors, submission to                                       bank supervision department
the authorities of SCBs quarterly                                            and department of financial
management action plans, introduction                                        markets. Branch
of strict credit standards, freezing of                                     rationalization is still on-
cadre positions at 1991 level, branch                                        going but the 1991 staff
rationalization to close the loss making                                     levels have been reached.
branches, and reduction of personnel                                         ROA of BOC is better than
expenses as a percentage of average                                         PDBs but have not reduced
total assets to match that of the private                                   the employee costs to the
domestic commercial banks                                                    agreed levels.
(b) Development Finance Institutions
(DFIs)
0
The GOSL's SFSP outlined the actions                        Complied.
already taken to strengthen the
resources base of DFIs and reduce the
public sector role in DFIs. Specially
mentioned the following:
Select the new chairman as provided    None                 Complied
for in the amended NDB Act
GOSL further reduce its direct and  None                    Complied.
indirect shareholding in the National
Development Bank (from 39%) to less
than 20%. Reduce the number of
Board members representing public
sector shareholders
(c) Increase the maturity structure of
government market borrowings
Specific targets, while not mentioned
in GOSL's SFDP, are stated in para 4
of Schedule 4 (Implementation
Program) to DCA
The targets in Schedule 4 are as   8/94 and                 Complied after   Amendments to the
follows:                            12/95                   delay            Registered Stock and
Increased the volume and the maturity                                        Securities Ordinance (RSSO),
of its competitively priced debt                                             Monetary Law Act(MLA)
instruments so that by 8/30/94 at least                                      and Local Treasury Bill
Rs. 4 billion worth of such securities                                       Ordinance (LTBO) enacted in
will have been issued and the volume                                         12/95 provide for issuance of
of such instruments will by 12/31/95,                                       long term treasury bonds.



have been increased to Rs 10 billion                                       Since March  i7 Rs.10
Billion worth of 2 year
Treasury Bonds have been
issued. In 1999 Treasury
bonds worth of Rs 67 billion
have been issued.
In the context of development of  None                    Complied
secondary trading of financial
instruments, SFSP states:
Remove adverse effects of withholding
tax
(d) The Employees Provident Fund and
Employee Trust Fund and National
Savings Bank
EPF and ETF to invest at least 5% of
their annual inflow in non-govermnent  6/95                Complied        In 1999 EPF invested Rs. 417
securities in 1993, rising to 10% by                                       Million in 1999.
June 1995
NSB to invest at least 10% of its  12/93                   Complied after   In 1999, NSB had 19.4% of
investments in non-government                             delay           its investments in non-
securities                                                                 government securities.
GOSL to allow complete autonomy for  None                                  No legal restriction for ETF
these institutions                                                         or EPF to invest in non
government securities. NSB
needs to invest at least 60% in
___________         government securities.
(e) Insurance companies
Introduce a new Insurance Act to  None         31 March   Not complied     All legal clearance obtained.
strengthen the regulatory framework            1998 (As                    Slow progress.
per
mission
12/97)
Allow insurance companies to pursue   None                Partial
more sophisticated portfolio                               compliance
management techniques
Reduce market segmentation and    None                     Partial         Mandatory ceding removed
promotion of competition                                   compliance.     and institutional agent
abolished.
Commence privatization of the two  12/93                   Not complied    The cabinet has approved a
state insurance companies by                                               proposal by PERC to permit
December 1993                                                              divesting of 39% of the
National Insurance Co. Ltd.



(f) Bank Supervision and regulation
Strengthen the laws and regulations  None                   Complied        Amendments to Banking Act,
Recovery of Loans Act and
National Savings Bank Act
were introduced in 1995.
Directions were issued to
commercial banks,
specialized banks.
Strengthen supervision capacity    None                     Partial         Training is provided on a
through rationalizing organizational                        Compliance       continuos basis.
structure of supervision departments
and upgrading of the technical capacity
of the staff
(g) Accounting Regulations and
Financial Disclosures
Improve enforcement of the         None                     Partial          All international accounting
international accounting and auditing                       Compliance      and auditing standards have
standards adopted by the Institute of                                       been adopted by ICASL and
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka                                           the Act of 1995 provides for
(ICASL), through giving these                                               legal enforcement of the
standards legal force and extending the                                      adopted standards. These
coverage of these standards                                                 have been gazetted. The
monitoring of standards
compliance will commence
from year 2000.
Set up an Accounting Standards Board   None                 Partial         The board has been
as a statutory body and staffed with                        Compliance       constituted and work has
technical experts                                                            commenced officially.
Examine the feasibility of introducing   None               Not applicable    Study was not undertaken.
compulsory malpractice insurance for
auditors
Agreed actions under the Side letter
stated in II-g are essentially the same
as above
(h) Debt Recovery Measures         None                     Complied         Special debt recovery court
Establish special courts exclusively for                                     has been set up and the banks
debt recovery                                                                are exercising parate
execution powers.
(Please see II-(f) below which states
the agreed action under the Side Letter)
(I) Introduction of Variable Interest  None                 Not applicable    PCIs did not require a study
Rates                                                                        and were comfortable in
Provide technical assistance to the                                         introducing variable rates.
OPCIs
from the proceeds of the Credit to
encourage the on-lending at variable
rates and, if the lending done at fixed
rates, to enable them to monitor and
control their interest risks and to
develop appropriate instruments for
hedging



(Please see II-(d) below which states
the agreed action under the Side Letter)_
II. As per Side letter dated May 7,
1993
None                   Complied        Amendments to the RSSO,
(a) Strengthen the system of issuing                                      MLA and LTBO were
the appropriate long term debt                                            enacted 12/95 to provide for
instruments, including the                                                issuance of long term treasury
development of a trading and                                              bonds. Process was delayed
settlement infrastructure                                                 due to the 1996 bomb
explosion but since 3/97 the
long term bonds are being
issued.
(b) Develop and implement a       None                    Partial         All required legislation in
regulatory framework, covering both                       compliance      place.
primary and secondary markets for
Treasury Bills and Rupee securities
(c) Build portfolio management    None                    Not Complied    EPF is planning to sub
capacity in the contractual savings                                       contract fund management to
institutions                                                              private fund managers while
building in-house capacity
with the help of consultants.
Work has already
commenced.
(d) Provide training programs for:
--- for various agencies involved in the  None            Complied        Not required
bond market;
--- for PCIs in the pricing and                           Not applicable
management of variable rate loans and
development of MIS                                        Partial         Already reported in Section
---for the Central Bank in                                compliance      11(c)
strengthening its bank supervision
function
(e) Strengthen SCB's credit       None                    Partial         Already reported in Section
management, rationalize the branch                        compliance      II(a)
network, improve staff utilization and
conduct an international comparison
salaries in the banking sector in
conjunction with the measures taken to
restructure the SCBs
(f) Implement the provisions of the  None                 Complied        Amendments to the recovery
revised debt recovery legislation                                         of Loan Act were passed in
3/8/00_______________________________________ 10:53:21__ AM_____________  1995.
3/8/00 10:53:21 AM



MANIK NAGAHAWATTE                                     CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA
DEPUTY. GOVERNOR .                                 30, Janadhipathi Mawatha
Co!ombo 1
Telephone  477555                                     Sri Lanka.
Fax       346268
E-mail    cbsldgessltnet.lk
January  11,, 2000
Ref: 27/01/004/0001/002
Ms Sriyani Hulugalle
Industrial Economist
The World Bank
Colombo office
1st Floor, DFCC Bldg.,
73/5, Galle Road
Colombo 3.
Dear Ms Hulugalle,
Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) : Cr.2484--CE
Imnlementation Completion Report (ICR)
We refer to your letter dated January 6, 2000 addressed to the Governor
on the above subject, with which you have forwarded a copy of the
Implementation Completion Report in respect of the above Project for our
observations.   We give below our observations on the contents of the
report, in particular on matters concerning the Central Bank.
2)       The report states that while the results of the policy
component  of  the  project  were  only  marginally  satisfactory,  the
performance of the credit component was rated satisfactory.   Having
regard to the fact that the report itself acknowledges that the bulk of
the policy aspects have been adequately addressed, the shortcomings
mentioned in the report with regard to the policy component have been
confined largely to the following matters;
a)  the delay in the enactment of the insurance legislation,
b)  the decision not to restructure the state commercial banks through
privatisation or private management contracts, and
c)  inadequate  coordination  of  the project by the CBSL after the
function was taken over from the Ministry of Finance in 1996.



Our observations with regard to the above are as follows;
(i)     With regard to (a) above, a part of the delay was caused by
the decision to enact fresh legislation on the subject, instead of a few
amendments to the existing law as originally envisaged. The enactment
of fresh legislation required several aspects relating to insurance to
be examined comprehensively. For this, a Task Force was appointed by
the Ministry of Finance & Planning.   It was also necessary to consult
the insurance industry before far reaching changes are introduced.
Once the draft legislation was ready, it had to be examined by the
*Hon Attorney General to certify that the legislation was consistent with
constitutional provisions. On the Attorney General's advice, further
revisions had to be made to the draft legislation.
The draft legislation has now almost reached finality. Action will
be taken to have the legislation enacted as a matter of priority. Once
enacted, the legislation will provide a comprehensive legal framework
for all matters connected with the insurance industry, including
regulation.
(ii)        With regard  to  (b) above,  you are aware that  the
authorities  did  not  consider  that  the  time  was  opportune  for
restructuring the banks for privatisation.   Instead, it was considered
that substantial improvements could be achieved by performance
agreements between the government and the two state banks. As you know,
these performance agreements, apart from providing a substantial degree
of autonomy to the banks, also provided for the reduction of
administrative expenses of the banks and for financial targets to be
achieved by them.   In fact, the requirement under the project was to
commercialise the banks by enforcing profit targets. The agreement with
the Bank of Ceylon has met with considerable success and the position is
expected to further improve in the future.   The bank's profitability,
staff cost and overhead cost ratios are now comparable with those of
private  sector  domestic  banks.    The  Bank  of  Ceylon  is  currently
preparing a strategic and structural reorganisation plan with the
assistance of foreign consultants to direct its future course of



operations.   As regards the People's Bank, whose problems are more
complex, other options are now being considered to make it more viable,
since the agreement has not brought about the desired level of
improvement.
(iii)      With regard to (c) above, the Financial Sector Reforms
Committee under the Central Bank comprises the members of the Monetary
Board which  inclu;>  the Secretary  to the Treasury,  and the Deputy
Governors of the C;;; ral Bank.  The Chairmen of the two state banks are
associated with the Committee when matters relating to those banks are
considered.     This  committee  has  been  regularly  monitoring  the
performance of the two state banks in terms of the agreements at regular
meetings.  The members of the Monetary Board as well as the two Deputy
Governors regularly monitor and direct financial sector reforms at
Monetary Board meetings which are held at least once in two weeks. The
Committee pays adequate attention to reforms in the financial sector,
irrespective of whether such reforms have to be initiated by the
Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank.   Under the guidance of the
Committee, the Central Bank prepared the performance agreements with the
two state banks.   We believe that the observation in the report that
while the Committee's coordination of the activities which came under
the  performance  of  the  CBST.  was  carried  out  effectively,   the
coordination of the activities carried out by the MFOP was deficient,
stems fran the delay in enacting the insurance law. It would be evident
from item (i) above that the reasons for this delay cannot be attributed
to a failure on the part of the Committee to coordinate the work.
4)      The statement in paragraph 46 of the report that the MOFP
failed to take any serious remedial measures with regard to the
restructuring of the state banks due to political instability, could be
misleading. The proposal for privatisation or private management of the
state banks was not proceeded with, as the issue was very sensitive and
it was decided to explore other avenues as indicated in item (ii) of
paragraph (2) above.
5)       We shall be grateful if the above facts are taken into
account when finalising your observations in the Implementation
Completion Report.
Yours faithfully,



Coca=  I                                           G~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~od qoem 
QiU)aCu A    421251                                                Stu& 1860.
Telephone   J                                                       My No. )
e5i 1   0@                                  _oqm                                   1
Telegrams   J PORAID                                                Your No.
aOoeo     1 FORAID            &Om*  O                                            603 AN  (3PAS a)
CQCsQRI(   F Colombo             0Q so aIoam q _s3w                     Q,ujjom  (3fiab mima)
Telex     J 21232            QQ6SErtL(  611186 00iolmd)                The Secretariat, (3Y Floor)
pS 9LLIBL  a.iRJ&
1uS   l       DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL RESOURCES                 nw. 277. oa*  01
Quado        447633              Ministry ofFinance and Planning      a.Qu .t.277, QnFIbu 01.
Fax       J                                                             P.O. Box 277, Colombo 1.
1    9             /
11 h February, 2000
Ms. Sriyani Hulugalle
Industrial Economist
World Bank Office
Colombo
Dear Ms. Hulugalle
Private Finance Development Project
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Please refer to your letter of 8`h February, 2000 on the above subject.
We could not submit the borrowers report as we have not received the report form the Central
Bank. We have received the report from Central Bank only on 1 Oth February, 2000.
We forward herewith the reports submitted by NDB and Central Bank for necessary action.
Your's sincerely
N. Madanayake
Director/World Bank Division
For DG/ERD
Cc:   I.    Mr. P.T. Sirisena      - Ref. Your letter of 9h February, 2000
Director/Finance Markets Dept
Central Bank of Sri Lanka
2.    Mr. R. D. Gunapala
Senior Manager
SMI Unit Manager



BORROWER'S REPORT
IDA - PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CR 2484 CE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON THE
POLICY REFORM COMPONENT
(I)    Project Objectives
The objectives '4 the project were to -
(a)   improve the efficiency of financial intermediation by supporting policy and
regulatory reforms in the financial sector;
(b)   assist in domestic resource mobilization for long term investment by stimulating
the development of local bond markers;
(c)   enable the private sector to respond to the changing economic environment by
providing investment finance; and to
(d)   help deepen the financial system and strengthen the key players, including the
participating credit institutions (PCIs), the State Commercial Banks (SCBs), the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL), the Ministry of Finance & Planning (MOFP),
the contractual savings institutions (CSIs) and insurance companies.
(2)    Project Components
The project consisted of -
(i) a credit component of US$ 57.5 million which provided funds to PCIs
for lending investment finance to private sector enterprises, and
(ii) a technical assistance component of US$ 2.5 million, for -
(a) institutional strengthening of the PCIs;
(b)  studies related to the restructuring of SCBs and State owned  insurance
companies;
(c) a study to strengthen the bank supervision function of the CBSL;
(d) a study on the automation of the inter-bank funds transfer system and a scripless
government securities transfer system;
(e)  a study to develop the portfolio management capacity of the Employees'
Provident Fund (EPF); and
(i) supporting the implementation of environmental standards by industrialists. PCIs
and regulatory agencies.
1



(3)    Implementation of Policy Reforms
This report will cover the implementation of financial sector reforms, which come under
the purview of this project.
All legal covenants as specified in Schedules 3 and 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement have been complied with.
Overall, the results of the policy reforms were satisfactory. Considerable progress was
made in strengthening the bank supervision function, improving the effectiveness of
monetary policy and in developing the capital market.
The series of reforms implemented relating to bank supervision include strengthening
and expanding the legal framework for the regulation of all banks, stipulating prudential
requirements in line with the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) standards,
upgrading on and off-site surveillance of banks with an early warning capability,
increased public disclosure requirements and use of external auditors and closer
monitoring of foreign exchange exposures of banks.
The enforcement of accounting and auditing standards and the monitoring of compliance
by the newly established statutory authority was another important achievement in the
regulation of financial markets.
The legal framework for the regulation of primary dealers has been prepared and will be
implemented shortly. Draft legislation has also been prepared for the supervision of
merchant/investment banks, which is expected to come into effect in 2000. In addition, a
new finance leasing law has been finalised and will be presented to Parliament during
the year. The legal framework for the regulation of private pension and provident funds
has also been drafted and is scheduled to be submitted to Parliament in 2000.
The introduction of market oriented open market operations was a progressive step in
improving the effectiveness of monetary management. The Monetary Law Act will also
be amended in early 2000 to make price stability the principal objective of the CBSL.
The other proposed amendments to this law relate to broadening the definition of money
supply and to eliminating certain anomalies with regard to the statutory reserve
requirement.
Perhaps, the most significant of the debt market reforms was the introduction of medium
term government securities at market determined rates of interest. The auctioning of
Treasury Bonds commenced in 1997 and we now have Treasury Bonds with maturities of
2 years to 6 years in the market. This has stimulated the private debt market by providing
a benchmark interest rate for corporate debt. Issues of corporate debentures have
increased markedly in the past two years. Private debt securities are now traded on the
Colombo Stock Exchange. The groundwork for the implementation of a scripless
govemment securities trading system and an electronic funds transfer system has been
completed and these systems will come into operation in 2000. Several measures have
been implemented to develop the primary dealer system and the secondary market for
govemment securities.
The taxation of private and government debt securities has been rationalized to remove
the bias against debt instruments vis-a-vis equities. The investment portfolios of CSIs
2



have been diversified, and the process is progressively continuing. Measures have also
been taken to improve the portfolio management capacity of the EPF. The establishment
of a credit rating agency has also contributed to capital market development.
The delay in the enactment of the new insurance law was the main shortcoming in the
implementation of the policy component. The delay was partly caused by the decision to
enact fresh legislation to cover the entire insurance sector instead of making a few
amendments to the existing law as originally envisaged, as the existing law was
considered inadequate. This entailed a comprehensive examination of several aspects
relating to insurance. The drafting of this law was done in close consultation with all key
participants. Hence, reaching a consensus has taken time. The draft law had also to be
revised extensively, following certain observations made by the Attorney General with
regard to its consistency with constitutional provisions. The Bill is now being revised
following the recommendations made by an ADB consultant. Action is being taken to
enact the legislation as a matter of priority. The Bill is now scheduled to be submitted to
the Parliament in early 2000.
The strategy to restructure the SCBs was through performance agreements signed
between the government and the SCBs, which provided operational autonomy to the
bank management and required the banks to achieve stipulated financial targets and
rationalize operations.  There were mixed results in restructuring SCBs.  The
performance of one bank has improved significantly to the extent that its profitability
and administrative cost ratios are comparable with private domestic banks. The other
bank has complex problems and has not achieved the desired level of improvement.
Therefore, other options are now being considered, such as private management contracts
or a strategic partner.
The implementation of reforms were, in some cases, delayed due to the inability or
delays encountered in obtaining suitable consultants. The implementation of an effective
surveillance system for primary dealers is a case in point. A consultant was required to
assist in preparing formrats and manuals and for training staff. However, the search for a
consultant took over an year. The consultants have now been commissioned and work is
in progress.
Over ten legislative enactments have been passed during the project. In certain cases, the
implementation of reforms was held up, primarily because of delays in the enactment of
legislation. The list of legislative enactments relating to financial sector reforms is given
in Annex 1.
The MOFP and the CBSL are firmly committed to initiate and implement policy
measures to accelerate private sector growth and to develop an efficient, competitive and
sound financial system. Further improvements to the policy framework relating to
capital market development, social security reforms, financial market regulation and
monetary management are in the pipeline.
3



More details on the implementation of reforms are given below.
(4)    Regulation of Financial Markets
4.1 Bank Supervision
As banks play a dominant role in the financial system, a major objective of the financial
sector reform program was the evolution of a sound, competitive and efficient banking
sector. Hence measures were taken to strengthen extemal supervision as well as the
intemal governance of banks and market discipline. Considerable progress was achieved
in strengthening the bank supervision capacity of the CBSL. The Banking Act was
amended in 1995 to strengthen and expand the legal framework relating to commercial,
savings and development banks and off shore banking units. Prudential requirements
were raised to bring them in line with BIS standards. Both on-site and off-site
supervision was upgraded and risk based supervision techniques were introduced. A
computerized off-site surveillance system with an early warning mechanism is now in
operation. Other measures included the increased public disclosure requirements of bank
data and the imposition of accounting and auditing standards on banks. A manual for on-
site supervision was also prepared with the assistance of a consultant financed by the
project. The capacity of the Bank Supervision Department of the CBSL was expanded
and a training faculty was also established. The requirement for both commercial and
specialized banks to appoint Compliance Officers to facilitate compliance with statutory
requirements was introduced to strengthen enforcement.
Prudential requirements are continually being upgraded. The CBSL has already issued a
direction to increase the minimum capital adequacy ratio for all banks from 8 % to 10 %
of risk adjusted assets from the year 2001. It is also proposed to impose stricter
requirements for specific loan loss provisioning i.e. from 3 months in arrears, from next
year. At present, the requirement to maintain specific loan loss provisions is from 6
months in arrears, while loans are classified as non- performning if principal and/ or
interest is overdue for 3 months.
A feasibility report pertaining to the establishment of a mandatory deposit insurance
scheme has been prepared with the assistance of a consultant. This is being examined by
the CBSL.
The legal framework relating to banks will be further expanded by a new set of
amendments to the Banldng Act which were recently approved by the Monetary Board.
The amendments would bring merchantlinvestment banks under the supervision of the
CBSL and would further strengthen the supervisory powers of the CBSL in respect of
licensing procedures, amalgamation, liquidation & closure of banks, qualifications,
appointment & removal of bank directors and senior management,etc.
4.2 Accounting and Auditing Standards
The legal enforcement of accounting and auditing standards was another important policy
reformn implemented to improve the corporate governance and the regulation of financial
markets and the private sector. The Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act
was passed in 1995 which provides statutory force to the accounting and auditing
4



standards adopted by The Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICASL). The law requires
"specified business enterprises" to prepare accounts in compliance with the accounting
standards and have them audited by professionally qualified chartered accountants in
accordance with the auditing standards. The ICASL is assisted by two committees,
namely the Accounting Standards Committee and the Auditing Standards Committee
whose task it is to make recommendations on the content and adoption of standards. The
Act also provides for an Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring Board which is
responsible for monitoring compliance with standards. Non compliance by enterprises
and auditors will constitute an offence, which will carry fines. The CBSL and Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) made the standards applicable to all banks and the
companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange from 1998. Other entities are required
to comply in respect of accounts for 1999. The Accounting & Auditing Standards
Monitoring Board have prepared the procedures for monitoring compliance, which will
begin in 2000.
4.3 Insurance
The drafting of the new insurance legislation is now being finalised by the Legal
Draftsman and is scheduled to be submitted to Parliament in early 2000. Arrangements
have already been made to set up the regulatory authority and the World Bank has agreed
to finance consultants who will assist in this task. The consultants are expected to
commence work in March 2000.
The new insurance law will provide for the establishment of an autonomous regulatory
authority for the insurance sector. The regulatory board and authority will be structured
on similar limes to the Securities & Exchange Commission. The insurance regulatory
body will regulate the operating environment of insurance companies, brokering
companies and agents. The minimum share capital and prudential requirements, such as
solvency margins and reserves for insurance companies will be specified in the law. The
new law will also provide for greater diversification of the investment portfolio of
insurance companies by reducing the minimum level of investment in government
securities. The qualifications of the directors and key staff in insurance and brokering
companies will be specified in the new law. There will be stricter requirements relating to
the actuarial valuations and audited accounts.
4.4 Leasing
At present there is no specific law relating to leasing. Banks and finance companies
engaged in leasing are supervised by the CBSL. However, other institutions carrying on
finance leasing business are not supervised. The Legal Draftsman has drafted the new
legislation. The Bill is scheduled to be submitted to Parliament in the first quarter of
2000. The proposed finance leasing law will define the rights and obligations of parties to
a finance leasing transaction and also provide a regulatory and supervisory framework
for the leasing industry. The CBSL will license and supervise companies engaged in
leasing activities under the proposed legislation.
5



(5)    Monetary Policy
Open Market Operations
In the area of monetary management, the CBSL took a decision to shift towards the use
of market oriented monetary policy instruments with pro - active open market operations
(OMO) being the principal tool. Consequently, the use of the statutory reserve ratio
(SRR) for monetary policy purposes would gradually decline. The SRR has been steadily
reduced over the past five years.
The Monetary Board approved a package of reforms in August 1995 to commence active
market-based OMO and to develop the secondary market for government securities.
Measures included the commencement of OMO at market rates, closure of the secondary
Treasury Bills window and repurchase window, re-activating the bank rate, the exclusion
of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) from inter-bank call money market and
granting permission for non-bank primary dealers to maintain accounts at the CBSL for
the purpose of settling securities transactions.
The OMO trading desk and the back office were set up and market interventions are
conducted by the OMO trading desk. Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repos using
Treasury Bills are used for managing call market liquidity, while outright sales and
purchases of Treasury Bills and Bonds are used for longer-term reserve money
management. The CBSL also set up an automated system linked to banks to estimate
daily liquidity requirements. Market oriented OMO have commenced and the CBSL has
been gradually increasing the scale of such operations. The CBSL proposes to implement
several improvements during the course of this year.
To ensure that the rules governing OMO are legally enforceable, the CBSL has drafted
regulations relating to OMO transactions, which will be gazetted in early 2000. The
regulations cover outright sales, outright purchases, repurchase and reverse repurchase of
Treasury Bills and Bonds and CBSL securities.
Amendments to the Monetary Law Act (MLA) have been prepared to improve the
operational effectiveness of the CBSL. The objectives of the CBSL will be amended to
emphasise the maintenance of price stability as its principal object, in order to avoid any
policy conflicts that may arise due to the pursuit of multiple objectives. Other
amendments are aimed at increasing the effectiveness of monetary policy, such as
revising the definition of money supply to take into account "broad money" removal of
the minimum and maximum limit on the SRR, and widening the scope for the imposition
of the SRR to cover liabilities other than deposit liabilities of a number of financial
institutions, other than banks. The amendments have been finalized by the Legal
Draftsman and are expected to be submitted to Parliament in the first quarter of 2000.
6



(6)    Domestic Resource Mobilization
Government Debt Market
Perhaps the most significant of the government debt market reforms was the introduction
of the medium term Treasury Bonds at market determined interest rates. The auctioning
of Treasury Bonds provided an impetus to the development of the private debt market by
setting a market determined benchmark interest rate for private debt. Several issues of
corporate debentures amounting to over Rs. 6 billion were traded in the market in the last
two years.
The Registered Stocks & Securities Ordinance and other governing laws were revised to
enable 'this policy reform. The auctioning of coupon Treasury Bonds which can be
transferred by endorsement to improve marketability, commenced in 1997 with the
auctioning of 2-year bonds. Since then, the GOSL has been progressively extending the
maturities of the Treasury Bonds auctioned and we now have 3,4,5and 6 year Treasury
Bonds in the market. Treasury Bonds amounting to Rs. 10 Billion, Rs 39 Billion and
Rs 68 Billion were auctioned in 1997, 1998 and 1999 respectively. The intention is to
further extend the maturities into the long term and replace rupee loans with Treasury
Bonds.
The CBSL announces the programme of Treasury Bills and Bonds to be auctioned
every quarter, in advance to provide market information to primary dealers.
Several measures were undertaken at the beginning of the project to increase the market
orientation of Treasury Bills auctions. Competitive bidding by the "captive sources"
started in May 1995. Since then, the Treasury Bill auctions are completely market driven.
From 1995, CBSL has been publishing the maturity structure of Treasury Bills at each
auction on a weekly basis, with the average yield rates to provide better market
information. Similar information is also provided for Treasury Bond auctions.
The system of bidding at primary auctions has been automated. In early 1999, CBSL
introduced a system of electronic bidding at primary Treasury Bill and Bond auctions.
The CBSL also proposes to introduce scripless trading and transfer system and a real
time gross settlement system (RTGS) for Treasury Bills and Bonds in order to develop
the secondary market for government securities. The Monetary Law Act, the Registered
Stocks & Securities Ordinance and the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance were amended in
1995 to enable the of issue and transfer of Treasury Bills and Bonds in scripless form.
The World Bank financed the feasibility study and the CBSL has also developed the
necessary software for the system which is now being tested. Accordingly, steps are
being taken to implement the scripless system and the RTGS, very early.
Several measures were taken to develop the primary dealer system. The Primary Dealers
Association was formed in 1997. The conduct of primary dealers was governed by
guidelines issued by the CBSL. In order to develop market-making function, the CBSL
enforced minimum participation rates for primary dealers at Treasury Bill and Bond
auctions. Participation was closely monitored and inactive dealers were delisted. Primary
7



dealers also required to make two way quotes in order to develop the secondary market
for Treasury Bills and Bonds.
The CBSL is now in the process of re-organising the primary dealer system. Primary
dealers will be required to set up separate entities with dedicated capital to trade in
govemment securities. The CBSL has drafted regulations to establish an operating and
supervisory framework for primary dealers, which will come into force in February,
2000. A system of more effective surveillance of primary dealer activities will also be
implemented in early 2000. For this purpose, the CBSL has engaged the services of
consultants to assist in the task.
Many other measures have been taken to promote the government securities market,
including fiscal incentives, training for market participants and investor awareness and
education programs.
(7)    Diversification of the investment portfolios of the Contractual Savings Institutions
There has been considerable progress in diversifying the investment portfolios of the
EPF, ETF, National Savings Bank (NSB) and the state owned insurance companies SLIC
and NIC.
The EPF started its diversification program in 1995 and now invests in both private debt
securities, as well as shares listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. At the end of 1999,
around Rs. 4 billion was invested in private sector debt (mainly debentures) and over Rs
600 million in shares.
The EPF has also taken several measures to develop its portfolio management expertise.
A consultant firn (financed by this project), has assisted in preparing investment
guidelines for the EPF. Staff have been recruited on contract and are now being trained in
fund management techniques. The EPF intends to continue to diversify its investment
portfolio and increase its presence in the capital market.
A project is also underway to upgrade and computerize the EPF systems and there is also
a proposal to amalgamate the EPF and the ETF.
The NSB has also diversified its investments and has invested around 20 % of its
portfolio in non-govermnent securities during the past five years. The lack of attractive
investments (until recently) in the private debt market prevented further diversification
by the bank. The recent (1999) amendments to the NSB Act, permit the bank to invest in
the share market.
The two insurance companies, SLIC and NIC have on average invested over
40 % of their portfolio in non-government securities.
(8)    Credit Rating Agency
As part of the strategy to promote the private debt market, the CBSL took the initiative in
setting up a credit rating agency. The credit rating agency, which was established in
October 1999, is a joint venture between a leading U.S. credit rating company, the CBSL,
8



the International Finance Corporation and several local financial institutions. The first
rating issued by the local credit rating company - DCR Lanka was for a debenture issue
of a recently privatized company.
(9)    Tax Incentives to develop the Financial Markets
Several tax reforms were implemented to provide fiscal incentives to develop the
government and private debt market. A major thrust of the tax reforms was also to
remove the tax bias that discriminated against debt securities vis a vis equities.
This has helped to establish an even playing field for debt and equity securities. Some of
the measures taken are
a) The withholding tax on government and private debt securities has been withdrawn.
b) Banks and financial institutions, debt and equity securities are exempt from the
recently introduced Goods and Services Tax. The business turnover tax applicable to
banks was reduced to 1% in 1995 and will be phased out soon.
c) The government and private debt securities are not subject to capital gains tax;
d) Treasury Bills and Bonds are exempt from stamp duty.
e) Private debt securities, such as debentures, bonds and commercial paper listed on the
Colombo Stock Exchange are exempt from stamp duty.
f) The stamp duty on debt instruments not listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange has
been substantially reduced so as not to be a disincentive. The stamp duties on these
instruments will also be phased out.
g) The CBSL has recommended that the stamp duties on mortgages and other taxes
affecting asset securitization either reduced or abolished in 2000.
(10)   State Commercial Banks
The strategy adopted for restructuring the SCBs was through performance agreements
signed between the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and the Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
and the People's Bank (PB). In terms of the first Agreements signed in 1993, the BOC
and PB received government bonds amounting to Rs 24 billion for recapitalisation. The
Agreements were designed to provide the banks with operational autonomy and banks
were required to achieve certain financial targets for profits and staff expenses. The
Agreements also required the banks to cut costs by freezing staff levels and rationalizirtg
the branch network.  The Agreements met with reasonable success in reducing
administrative costs by restructuring staff and branch expansion.  The financial
performance of BOC improved, while the PB's performance was not satisfactory. Both
banks, however, were plagued with large non-performing loan portfolios, which
included government guaranteed loans. In order to settle these obligations, the GOSL
provided the banks with another installment of govemment bonds amounting to Rs 20
billion in 1996.
In terms of the 1993 Agreements, the GOSL agreed to amend the BOC and PB statutes to
enable the banks to function as autonomous commercial banks on the same terms and
conditions as their private sector counterparts. The amendments have not been enacted.
Therefore, it was decided to execute another set of Agreements in 1998 in order to give
effect to the important provisions of the amendment bills and to achieve other objectives.
The main features of the 1998 Agreements are summarized below.
9



(a)    Granting operational autonomy to the bank management.
(b)    Stipulation of qualifications for members of the  Board of Directors and the
General Manager.
(c)    Appointment of an Internal Audit Committee consisting of members of the
Board of Directors.
(d)    Quantitative targets for profits, administrative costs, loan recoveries and non-
performing loans.
(e)    Freeze on staffing levels.
(f)    Rationalization of loss making branches.
(g)    Restrictions on credit facilities to defaulters.
(h)    Payment for non-commercial services undertaken by the bank on behalf of the
GOSL.
(i)    Stipulation of terms, conditions and procedures for granting credit facilities at the
request of the GOSL.
()    Requirement for the Minister of Finance to present a statement to parliament on
all GOSL guarantees provided to the bank.
The Agreements seek to improve the banks' internal govemance and financial
performance by providing the management with operating autonomy and by specifying
annual quantitative performance targets. These include profitability targets, such as
return on assets and return on capital, efficiency targets such as staff costs and overhead
costs to average assets and financial soundness targets for loan recovery and non-
performing loans. The Agreements are also aimed at reducing administrative and
intermediation cost through branch rationalization and restrictions on staffing levels. The
banks are required to submit quarterly performance reports to the GOSL and the CBSL
on the achievement of targets and other requirements.
The Agreement has been reasonably successful in restructuring BOC. In 1998,-the bank
achieved three of the six targets, i.e. the staff cost, overhead cost and loan recovery
target. The bank could not meet the profit targets, as it had to make increased provisions
for loan losses and fall in value of investments, due to under-provisioning in the previous
year, primarily on account of losses in a subsidiary - the Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka.
By making adequate provision for all contingent losses, the bank was heading in the right
direction and the decline in profits in 1998 is viewed as a temporary setback. The
portfolio audit indicated that BOC was required to maintain a higher level of loan loss
provision than that stipulated by the CBSL, as BIS standards were used (BIS standards
require loan loss provisions at 3 months arrears, while the CBSL requirement at present
is at 6 months).
The provisional numbers for 1999 indicate that the BOC's return on assets, staff and
overhead ratios are now comparable with private domestic banks. The number of loss
10



making branches has also declined to around 10 out of a branch network of 290. The
remaining loss making branches have only marginal losses and the bank is expected to
close those that cannot be tumed around in 2000. The BOC has already obtained
permission to close one branch. The BOC is currently preparing a strategic and structural
re-organizational plan with the assistance of foreign consultants to direct its future course
of operations.
The position with PB is different. The bank is undercapitalized and has a large inventory
of non-performing loans. The bank was only able to achieve one of the six targets in
1998. As the bank's problems are complex, other options such as private management or
a strategic partner, are now being considered to make it viable, since the Agreement has
not brought about the desired level of improvement.
11



ANNEX 1
LEGISLATIVE ENACTMENTS
RELATING TO FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS UNDER THE
IDA-PRIVATE FINANCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ( PFDP)
1. Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995.
2. Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act No. 8 of 1995.
3. Recovery of Loans by Banks ( special provisions) (Amendment) Act No. 24 of 1995.
4. National Savings Bank (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1995.
5. Monetary Law (Amendment) Act No.26 of 1995.
6. Local Treasury Bills (Amendment) Act No. 32 of 1995.
7. Registered Stocks and Securities (Amendment) Act No.32 of 1995.
8. Banking ( Amendment) Act No. 33 of 1995.
9. Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act No. 6 of 1996.
10. Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 16 of 1996.
11. Goods and Services Tax Act No. 34 of 1996.
12. Stamp Duty (Amendment) Act No. 38 of 1996.
13. Regional Development Banks Act No. 6 of 1997
14. Inland Revenue ( Amendment) Act No 24 of 1997.
15. Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Act No. I I of 1998.
16. Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998.
17. National Savings Bank (Amendment) Act No. 22 of 1999.
12



BORROWER'S REPORT - CREDIT COMPONENT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
EVALUATION REPORT OF THE PFDP PROJECT
1.     Introducio
The PFDP commenced its opeation in October 1993 to achieve the following objectives:
a)     improve the efficiency of financial intermediation in Sri Lanka by supporfing policy and
regulatory reforms in the financial sector.
b)     assist in domestic resources mobilization for long term investment by stimulating the
development of local bond market.
c)     erable the private se;tor to respond to the changing econmic enviromlnents by providing
investment finance and
d)     help deepen the financial system  and strergthens the key players including the
contractual Savings institutions, the CBSL the MOF and PCIs.
The project consisted of four parts in order to achieve the above objectives. While part A (Enterprise
Credit) was designed to achieve the objective as stated in (b) & (c) above parts B, C, D were designed to
achieve objectives as stated tndcr (a) and (d) above. Part 13, C & D consisted of poLicy Fiame work
impToerveents & support system wid pollution control Leasures.
During the implementation period though there were changes in Govemments in Sn Lanka there was no
major changes in the recognition of private sector as the engine of growth and development of the country.
The Credit Line consisted of foUowing components in terms of currency allocations for the project The
performance achieved as against these allocations are also indicated belowv
Category             Arrmount of Credit allocated  Performance achieved in
! _______________ | ______          (Mn)___                  termsofUS   S
I________________     |SDR                USS       SL Rs    Utlisation       %
PartA Enterprise credit       40.9       57.5     2826.3       54.6        95%
Part B,CD Policy              2.3        2.5       122.9        3.1        124%
Frame work support systeni,
_polution control measures    _       _       _    __60_0
Total                         43.2       60.0     2949.0
@ SL Rs 49.15 per US S in October 93.
2.     Proect Implementadon
The project implementacon was carrid out through NDB. The NDB as the administrator of the project
established a Project Unit which fimctioned as an independent cell within NDB. The NDB through its past
experience gained by successfully managing several SMI lines of credit was able to carry out its apex role
through supervision and necessary guidance to the participating credit institutions and other technical
service agencies. The evaluation performance as discussed below indicates that the two leading DFI's
operating in the country have virtually committed the funds set aside for Enterprise Credit.



By the close of the credit Rs.3109.1 million have been disbursed under Parts A,B,C& D of the project (Rs
2913.1 MnforPartAandRsl96.1 MnforPartB, C& D)
During the project operations supervisions were carried out regularly by NDB & PCIs. IDA Review
Mission visited at regular intervals and have randomly checked assisted projects. Steps were taken for
rescheduEng where necessary by PCIs. A sample survey was carried out by NDB Project Unit and
World Bank resident Mission officials. The sample survey included project in the three districts of
Gampaha. Colombo and Kalutara and covered several sectors of the economy.
Implementation of enterprise credit was assisted through training programs amranged under TA Component
110 officers of NDB, DFCC, HNB and Sampath Bank have participated in various overseas training
programs to enhance their Project Appraisal and Financial Analysis, Marketing and Managerial
capabilities. In addition two programs were conducted in association with Havard institute of Intemational
Development on Investment Project Finance & Risk analysis for officers of PCIs, DFIs Central bank, &
National Planning UJnit of the Ministry of Finance. The two programs were organised by the DFCC and
NDB respectively.
The skils acquired by the officers will be useful in thte implementation of similar projects in the future.
M0aturity on project lending, training and exposure gained on the subject, high cosmiitmrent and influence
of policy decisions were some factors that contributed to the success of the line of credit
3 (a)   Performance of Partlciuating Credit Institutions under the Prolect - (Enterprise Credit)
th.e gross value of Sub l,oans approved iilider dhe project amounts to Rs. 7,470.3 Mn. in respec-t of
10 * projects. The cornespondirsg refinance amounts to Rs.4387.7 Mn.
3 (a).1  Net Approvals
The net Refinance approved on the final date of conmiitnent (as at 31.03.98) was
Rs.3182.8 Mn in respect of 349 projects. The Line of Credit was fully conmmitted in terms
of prevailed exchange rates as on that date.
3(a).2  Cancellatons
Rs. 1204.9 Mn approved for 56 projects was cancelled at various stages of the project.
The reasons for cancellations can be attibuted to delays in irmplementation, full or partil
withdrawal by clients and in extreme situations due to non-availability of satisfactory
documenteto support expenditre.
The Project Unit of the NDB and the World Bank Resident Mission periodically
reviewed the availability of Sri Lanka rupee resources under the project Between the
period October 1993 to March 1998 the Sri Lanka rupee depreciated by 26.8%. New
approvals were substtuted in place of cancellations or additional rupee resources that
were available due to exchange fluctuations.
3(a).3  Disbursemelte
The total amount disbursed as on 28'l October 1999 amounts to Rs.2913 Mn. Of the
intial allocation of US S 57.5 Mn made available for sub loans, US $ 54.64 Mn was
disbursed by the closure of the credit This amount represents 95% utilization of the
initial allocatiorL



.3
3(a).4 Performtance of Particlpating Credit Institudons
Three private conmmercial banks namely Sampath, HNB and CBOC participated in the
scheme in addition to the two DFIs. The two DFIs have absorbed 94.8% of the total
credit indicatng their dominance in the long term credit market for project oriented
lending. Total amount approved to pnvate commercial banks amounted to Rs.156.6 Mn
for IS projects. Applications were not received from the Commercial Bank even though
the Bank has signed a Participating Credit Agreement During the period in which the
Line of Credit was in operation (1993-1998) three other Lines of Credit were also
available through the same mechanism. The pnvate commercial banks opted for these
schemes in preference to the PFDP as they were concentrating more on the small and
medium scale industries as they were more otiented to this sector of the economy
through their net work  of branches which were well spread out. Corporate clienLts
prefened DFis for their tong term borrowings due to flexibility in approach and the tune
taken for approval.
3(a).S  Total investmert generated under tie Project
The participating credit institutions generally finance 60% - 75% of the total cost of the
project The experience suggest that the equity contribution on the average is around
35%. The ratio of funding Linder the PFDP is 35:26:39 (promoter, Bank and PFY)P proiect
respectively). Ol this basis the total investmnent is in rhe regionr of Rs.7169 Nin.
'The average credit flow to the private sector during the perizd 1994 to 1997 is aro und Rs
269 Bn per annum from all financial institutions. The impact of the PFDP on
cornmercial banks is marginal. As the two DFIs have virtually used the credit it is
meaningful to compare the impact towards DFIs. The DFIs on the average have provided
Rs 26.5 bn per annum to private sector. PFDP has provided Rs 3 Bn during the same
period and therefore 4% of their funding has been sourced by the project annually.
3(b)   Performance under Technical Assistance (Parts B, C & D of the Droiect)
3(b).1  Part B Policy frame work iprovement
Under this activity capacity building of the Central Bank was caried out specially m the
Economic Research Dept, Financial Market Dept, Automation of Banwkng Activities of
the Govermnent Securites Market is another activity funded under the project. Areas
mnproved includes Economc and Financial Analysts, Debt, Secunties Market, Capacity
Building of  Prirnary Dealers, Institutional and Corporate  Investors.   Portfolio
Management Expertise was also infused to Dept of EPF for Management of EPF.
Officers from Department of Labour, Institute of Policy Studies and Department of
National Budget participated in HID programs on Social Security and Pensions
Modeling. Another area covered under training is legal aspects of trade liberalization.
In order to strengthen financial structure of the two leading state Commercial Banks
namely People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon a portfolio audit was carried out in addition to
a financial performance review. A farther activity undertaken was the assessment of the
value of assets and actuarial valuation of reserves of the National nsurance Corporation
and Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. The World Bank resident mission in Sri Lanka
evaluated the suitability of Consultants employed under the projects in most instances



4
and approved their employment. The project unit of the NDB approved reimbursement
of the expdit  on piusal of contacal documents and consultants reports.which
were recommended by vanious miplementing agencies.
3(b).2 Part C Support System
intitution Development of Cental Bank, NDB, DFCC MOF and other Private
Commercial Banks were carried out by the expome of the officer attached to these
msttutions either through participation in overseas training programs or local trainig
programs. Area of exposue includes managerial skill developments, information
technology, iastructure finance, financial markets, legal issues on mtemnational bank
guarantees, advanced credit analysis, project appraisal' and risk management, Euro
Money Training Programs, Bank Marketing, total quality Management, Savins & Rural
Credit, Rural Banking, Appraisal of Agricultural lending etc.
3(1).3  Part D Polution Control
'fle activities under this sub head was implemented by CleaNet program supervised by
NDB Environmental Unit. Initially US S 100,000 was allocated to Itmin Ltd to cany out
the program.  However, due to slow progress achieved, the activities were later
transferred to the Ceylon Chanber of Commerce and Industrial Technology Institute.
CleaNet is fumctioning as an Information Clearing house for Cleaner production to
Industrial Enterprises and Soft Loan to implement such measures were available through
Pollution Control & Abatement Fund Managed by NDB. The two institutions
successfUlly implemented the program and established a web-site through Internet to
provide required information to industrialists.  Ttu: technological and rnanagement
capabilities wrere aLso developed throurgh pTocurement ol necessary equipment and
participatiorn ii overseas training programs. A web server was ho.ted and conigured at
both rl' & CCC. Case study data, a list of Enviromnental Consultants and other
relevant information that would be sourced by industries is being accommodated and
hosted on web site. The activites carried out by the two institutions can be categonzed
as Environmental Policy Services, Providing trainmg services, consultancy services,
information dissemination services and technology brokering services.
4.     Operational experieuce
Deviaing from the practice of submittng withidrawal applications to Central Bank of Sri Lanka through the
General Treasury, under the PFDP, applications were directly submitted to Central Bank for withdrawal of
funds from the Line of Credit This procedure reduced the time gap for withdrawal of funds and passed
down the benefit of low cost funds to the ultimate borrower without delays. The procedure is strongly
supported by NDB as a method to be folowed in the future. NDB as the apex agency for implementation
also wish to place on record that for larger projects implementation time has to be flexible within the frame
work of the commitmnent and disbursement period and the PCIs should be given a free hand to decide
either to withdraw or cancel without restricting a period for I" draw down. As high as 37% projects were
cancelled (18% No wise) at various stages of implementation. Around 58% of the projects faU into a
category where sub loan size was over Rs 25.0 Mn. The experience suggests  that  the   projects
benefited are  substantially  larger projects  and  as  such  delays  in implementation can be
expected on the grounds of technical, financial, econormical or management problems. As such flexible
time fiame for withdrawal can be justified. Around 11% of the quoted public companies listed in the
Colombo Stock Exchange have benefited from the project. Enhanced profitability through additional
capital formation may have influenced the marketability of shares.



.5
The follow up activities by the two DFI's does not indicate any serious draw backs on most of the projects
and on an overall basis the projects have fared well A highlight of foUow up activities is the awareness of
the modern manageent practices among the beneficiaries of the projects. This argues well for the
implementation of siinia projects in the future.
S.     Relationship among the monitoring and implementing agencies
The World Bank Resident Mission in Sn Lanka extended an excellent support to the NDB Project Unit
and other implementing Agencies and Participating Credit Institutions. Their contnbution for timely
approval of sub projects and other services was invaluable. In addition, to reviewing of sub projects the
mission staff also evaluated technical services, proposals and facilitated the work of NDR Project Unit.
The NDB Project Unit also wishes to place on record the expeditious manner in which disbursements were
effected b , the DisbursementgM  if World Bank with minimum clarifications.
The Cent-al PBank of Sri Lanka expedited withdrawal applications efficiently and made available tthe
required docu;nents for recording and reporting with a mrinimum timne lag.
All cechitcal services agencies have extended their support to the NDB Project Unit when effecting
disbuisenonts for varims goods and services procured under the project. The work carried out by Ceylon
Chamber of Conmnerce and Industrial  Technology Institute under the CleaNet Project (vested with
operating a tformtion clearing house by providing information to industrialists to mncrease productivity by
introducing cleaner technology options and thereby reducing the emission of pollutants to the enviromnent)
requires soecial appcafion.



