Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2484 CE
                   Development Credit Agreement
              (Private Financial Development Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 7, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2484 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1993, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has issued a Statement of Financial
Sector Policy dated March 5, 1993 (the Statement), describing
objectives and policies designed for the development and expansion
of the financial sector, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the implementation of said policies;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of measures to be undertaken pursuant to, or in
furtherance of, the provisions of the Statement through the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the
Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands;
      (D)   by an agreement dated June 30, 1992, (the USAID Grant
Page  2
Agreement), the Agency for International Development of the United
States of America (USAID) has agreed to extend a grant (the USAID
Grant) to the Borrower in an amount of $7,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
USAID Grant Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Participating Credit Institution" means any private
credit institution incorporated and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, which has entered into a participation agreement with the
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Part II(4) of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Credit Institution out of the proceeds of the Credit
to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project, and "free-
limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Part II(1)(b) of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise to
which a Participating Credit Institution proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan;
      (d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
Project in such sectors as may be agreed upon between the
Association and the Borrower, to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
      (e)   "AWDR" means the Average Weighted Deposit Rate, namely
the weighted average of the interest rates paid to depositors by
branches in the Greater Colombo area of domestic commercial banks
(other than the National Savings Bank) on interest-bearing term
deposits, as issued weekly by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
calculated on the basis of the previous 26 week period;
      (f)   "Project Unit" means the unit, appointed by the Borrower
with the concurrence of the Association, responsible for
implementation of the Project;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-three million two hundred thousand Special
Page  3
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a Participating
Credit Institution on account of withdrawals made by an Investment
Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
works required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii)
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
Page  4
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
industrial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in
accordance with the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than four
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the objectives and policies included in the Statement, or a
significant part thereof, will be implemented.
      (b)   The Netherlands Grant Agreement and the USAID Grant
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 1994, or
such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (c)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
Page  6
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands
Grant or the USAID Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Netherlands Grant Agreement or the USAID Grant Agreement,
respectively.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreements; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)   arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
made to implement the Project through the Project Unit; and
      (b)   agreements have been entered into with at least two
Participating Credit Institutions in accordance with the provisions
of Part II (4) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   SECMINFIN                 FINMIN 21409
                   Colombo                   FORAID 21232
Page  7
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                   By /s/ Ananda W. P. Gurughungarumlaut\0d
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Sub-loans               40,900,000        60%
(2)   Expenditures             2,300,000
      under Parts B
      and C of the
      Project:
      (a)  Goods                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
Page  8
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (b)  Works                                70%
      (c)  Consultants'                         100%
           services and
           training
                            ____________
           TOTAL              43,200,000
                            ============
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the
efficiency of financial intermediation; (ii) to promote domestic
resource mobilization for term financing; (iii) to enhance provision
of private sector investment finance; and (iv) to deepen the
financial system and strengthen its main participants.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Enterprise Credit
      Financing by Participating Credit Institutions of Investment
Projects through Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises.
Part B:     Policy Framework Improvements
      Support for reform of the financial sector, especially those
areas that assist in mobilization of domestic resources for long-
term investments through commercial channels.
Part C:     Support Systems
      Technical assistance for:
1.    institutional development of:
      (a)   Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
      (b)   Participating Credit Institutions;
Page  9
      (c)   State Commercial Banks;
      (d)   Savings institutions; and
      (e)   Other main participants in term finance, including the
insurance institutions.
2.    policy development in:
      (a)   bond markets;
      (b)   accounting and auditing;
      (c)   debt recovery; and
      (d)   environmental standards.
Part D:     Pollution Control
      A program to provide credit and technical assistance for
pollution control and abatement.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Terms and Conditions of
                   and Procedures for Sub-loans
I.    Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions
      A.    Terms for on-lending by the Borrower to Participating
            Credit Institutions
      1.    Interest rate            :     AWDR
      2.    Amortization period      :     15 years, inclusive of
                                           5 years of grace
      3.    Foreign exchange risk    :     to be borne by the
                                           Borrower
      4.    Administration fee       :     1% per annum of
            to be paid by                  Credit proceeds
            Borrower to Project            outstanding
            Unit
      B.    Terms of Sub-loans
      1.    Interest rate            :     to be determined by the
                                           respective Participat-
                                           ing Credit Institution
      2.    Amortization period      :     up to 10 years
                                           including grace periods
                                           of up to 2 years
      3.    Maximum amount to be     :     $2,000,000 equivalent
            disbursed out of               per Investment Project
            Credit Account
      4.    Investment Enterprise    :     at least 30% of Invest-
            equity contribution            ment Project cost
      C.    Adjustment of Terms
1.    The mechanisms for establishing interest rates and
administrative fees referred to above, shall be reviewed annually
and, if necessary, adjusted, based on procedures agreed upon between
Page  10
the Borrower and the Association.
2.    The actual rate charged to the Participating Credit
Institution by the Borrower, shall be amended every 3 or 6 months
based on an index satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
II.   Procedures
1.    No expenditures for goods or works required for an Investment
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless:
      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the application and information
required under Part II paragraph (2) (a) of this Schedule in respect
of such Sub-loan; or
      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the request and information required
under Part II paragraph (2) (b) of this Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-
limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan as determined by the Association
for each Participating Credit Institution in terms of the amount to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for an Investment
Project.
2.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish or
cause the Participating Credit Institutions to furnish, to the
Association, an application in form satisfactory to the Association,
together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1997.
3.    Sub-loans and Investments shall be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain or cause the Participating Credit Institution
to obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower, including, the right
to:
      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;
Page  11
      (c)   require the Investment Enterprise to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operation and financial condition.
      (d)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
      (e)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practices; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
      (f)   obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower or with the Participating Credit
Institutions.
4.    The Borrower shall enter into a participation agreement with
each Participating Credit Institution providing for its
participation in the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those outlined in this Schedule.
5.    Each Participating Credit Institution shall comply with
eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association.
6.    After commencing to participate in the Project, each
Participating Credit Institution shall continue to satisfy the
performance entry criteria which shall be monitored semiannually and
modified if appropriate by mutual agreement between the Borrower and
the Association. If any Participating Credit Institution fails to
satisfy the above specified criteria, the Association reserves the
right to suspend Sub-loan authorizations under the Project until the
Participating Credit Institution has taken specific steps to address
its problems in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that each participation agreement
include provisions for the relevant Participating Credit
Institution:
      (a)   to retain responsibilities and staff satisfactory to the
Association to appraise Investment Projects and extend Sub-loans
under Part A of the Project;
      (b)   to apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in the appraisals of Investment Project; and
      (c)   to complete environmental impact assessments
satisfactory to the Association for each Sub-loan.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall:
Page  12
      (a)   maintain the Project Unit with responsibilities,
resources and staff satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   cause the Project Unit to implement the Project in
accordance with the arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement.
2.    The Borrower shall carry out activities under Parts B and C of
the Project, in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory
to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall by August 31, 1994 or such other date as
the Association shall determine, conduct a review with the
Association with regard to the actions taken pursuant to the
Statement and the implementation of the Project.
4.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to increase the
volume and maturity of its competitively priced debt instruments
(Treasury Bills and Rupee Securities) so that by August 30, 1994 at
least Rupees four billion worth of such securities will have been
issued and that the volume of such instruments will, by December 31,
1995, have increased to at least Rupees ten billion.
5.    The Borrower shall carry out, for contractual savings
institutions, an investment portfolio diversification plan
satisfactory to the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall implement a plan satisfactory to the
Association, for improvements in the enforcement of auditing and
accounting standards.
7.    The Borrower shall, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association:
      (a)   (i)    by October 31, 1993 commence a banking
                   supervision study; and
            (ii)   by March 31, 1994 complete such study; and
      (b)   (i)    by October 31, 1993 commence an insurance
                   industry study; and
            (ii)   by March 31, 1994 complete such study.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
Under Part A of the Project:
1.    The Borrower shall cause to be established procedures in line
Page  13
with established commercial practice, to ensure that the goods and
works procured shall be purchased at reasonable and competitive
prices in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, due account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.
Under Parts B and C of the Project:
2.    Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
"Guidelines", in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
Page  14
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
Page  15
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
