The World Bank
FOR OMCILu USE ONLY
Report No. 5709-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
September 26, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Cruzeiro (Cr$)/Cruzado (CzS)
US$1.00        =        Cr$ 2,714 It
US$1.00                 Cz$13.80 (February 28, 1986) 21
Cz$l.00                IUS$0.072464 (February 28, 1986) 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                  =   January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  =   April 1 to March 31
Project                               =   April 1 to March 31
1/  Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1984).
2/ A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was
introduced effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate
shown above.  The cruzeiro will continue to be legal tender
until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued against the Cruzado
at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAR                 Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acao Regional
(State Company for Regional Development Action)
CEASA-BA            Central de Abastecimento da Bahia S.A.
(Central Marketing Organization of Bahia)
CEPED               Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento
(Research and Development Center)
CERB                Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia
(State Rural Engineering Company)
CNPA                Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
(National Research Center for Cotton Production)
CNPC                Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
(National Research Center for Goat and Sheep Production)
CNPMF               Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Mandioca e Fruticultura
(National Research Center for Cassava and Tropical Fruit)
COBAL               Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CODEVASF            Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
CPATSA              Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
DNOCS               Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
EBAL                Empresa Baiana de Alimentos S.A.
(State Food Company)
EMATER-BA           Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural da Bahia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPM             Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EYBRAIER           Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
EPABA              Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia
(State Agricultural Research Company)
T This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FIBGE              Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estadistica
(Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FWNAI              Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IC                 Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IICA               Iastituto Interamericano de Cooperacao a Agricultura
(Interamerican Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture)
INCRA              Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Land Reform Agency)
INTERBA            Instituto de Terra da Bahia
(State Land Institute)
MINTER             Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of Interior)
H-imAD             Ministerio de Reforma Agraria e Desenvolvimento Agricola
(Ministry of Agricultural Reform and Development)
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONORDESTE       Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
RDC                Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SDC                Conselho Estadual do Desenvolvimento
(State Development Council)
SEPLAN             Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Secretariat of Planning)
SSRC               Support to Small Rural Communities
STC                Comissao Tecnica Estadual
(State Technical Commission)
SUDENE             Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRA4
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAkIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ..............     ..........................   iv-v
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1.....              ..     .........      I
A. Agriculture in the National Economy ..............       1
B. The Rural Northeast  .............................       1
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast  .....................                      2
D.  Experience with Past Bank Lending ................      2
E.  The State of Bahia    ..................... .........   3
II.   THE PROJECT  ................     ..............................  5
A.  Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement    ........   5
B.  Project Objectives and Strategy  ................ .     6
C. Project Description Summary        .....................  7
D. Detailed Project Features        .......................  8
i) The Bahia Rural Development Plan ..6 ........      8
Water Resource Development      ................  8
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production  ..............................     10
Agricultural Extension .....................     1'
Rural Investment Credit  .................. .    12
Marketing Services  .......................    13
Support to Small Rural Communities  ........     14
State Project Administration and Training ..    16
Land Tenure Improvement       ....................    16
ii)  Regional Agricultural Research ........... ..    17
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  ..............  ............ .....    18
A.  Project Cost       .....................................  18
B.  Financing        .......................................    19
C.  Procurement  ...     .............................. ....  19
D.  Disbursements  ............... ..............    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Brazil
during November/December 1984 consisting of Messrs. H. von Pogrell,
W. Beattie, A. Cajina, M. Fairless, H. Floyd, D. Mitchnik,
Ms. B. Nunberg and M. Anderson (Bank) and Mr. Prieto Celi (FAO/CP).



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENT&TION  .................          21
A.  Organization and Management  .....................         21
B.  Annual Planning and Budgeting           ...................  23
C. Operating Agreements  ............................          23
D. Monitoring and Evaluation             ......................  24
E.  Accounts and Auditing  .....       ......................  24
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES .          ......        24
A. Production ..............-..................                25
B. Marketing  ......... ................................       25
C.  Illustrative Farm Models  .....       ...................  26
D.  Farm Income  ...............  ....   . ..26
E.  Fiscal Impact          ...................................  27
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..................    ...      27
A.  Employment  ......................................         27
B.  Economic Rate of Return  .....      ....................   28
C.  Environmental Impact  .....      .......................   29
D.  Project Risks  ...................................         29
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..          30
Tables in Tex:
3.1 Total Project Costs .............. .. ..............       18
3.2 Procurement Arrangements . .............0...-..            20
5.1. Net Family Farm Benefits .....................            26
Annexes
1.  Structure of Land Holdings ...............  ........       33
2.  Evolution of Bahia Agricultural Production .......         34
3.  1.  Project Priority Areas and Beneficiaries .....         35
2.  List of Municipalities in the Project Area ....        36
4.  Marketing Services ..................                      37
5. Guidelines for Selection of Local Development
Projects .......................................         40



- iii -
6.  1.  Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities ....        41
2.  Summary Account by Project Coponent ..........        42
7.  1.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements. ... o.      43
2.  Allocatiou of Loan Proceeds       eeo...................  44
8.  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies .o....       45
9. Total Annual Area, Production and Value
of Major Crops and Livestock   ...................      46
10. Estimted Yields and Areas of Major Crops at
Farm Level                                              47...................***..*****4
11. Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Economic Analysis ............. o.....          48
12.  1. Project Economic Analysis  ............... ....        49
2. Present Values of Net Stres  at a Discount
Rate of 11%  w...................o..o ........        50
3. Sensitivity Analysis ....... ..... ... ...... ....     50
13. Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analysis o.......o........ .....                        51
14. List of Working Papers and Key Documents in
Project File ............ ................. ....        52
Charts    1. Project Coordination and Management   ....... C.           54
2.  Implementation Scheduleh.............. o...... ....       55
aps      o1.  Northeast Rural Development Program Area-Map IBRD 18480
2. State of Bahia and Project Area-Map IBXD 18894



- iv -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHTA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing        The State Company for Regional Development Action (CAR) for
Agencies:        coordination of all state and federal agencies participating
in the Bahia State Rural Development Program and the Federal
Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA) for regional
agricultural research.
Amount:          US$171.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:   Some 80,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 161 municipalities of the State of Bahia would
directly benefit from the project. An estimated
additional 150.000 families would also benefit from the
water supply, community development and marketing
services components.
Project
Description:     The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
the Northeast Regional Rural Development Program (NRDP).
The project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of Bahia; (b)
generate employment opportunities for low-income farm
families; (c) increase state and regional institutional
capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to small
farmers; and (d) promote water resource development and
technology generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer
vulnerability to recurring droughts. It would support water
resource development for both agricultural and domestic use,
agricultural research at the state and regional levels,
rural extension, investment credit, marketing services,
funding for community subprojects, and project
administration and training.
Risks:           Project risks include: (a) possible inefficient delivery of
project services; (b) lack of sufficient inter-institutional
cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and (e) recurring
drought conditions. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks.



US$ Millions - - --
Estimated Project Costs                    Local    Foreign    Total
A. Water Resource Developament           20.5      8.0       28.5
B. Agricultural Researdi and
Basic Seed Production               23.8      3.9       27.7
C. Agrcultural Extensiom                 67.0      5.6       72.6
D. Rural Investment Credit               63.6     11.2       74.8
E. Marketing Services                     9.7      2.0       11.7
F. Support to Small Rural Commmities     36.2      6.0       42.2
G. State Project Administration
and Training                        33.3      2.4       35.7
Sub-Total                               254.1     39.1      293.2
Regional Production Research              7.0      1.0        8.0
Total Baseline Cost                     261.1     40.1      301.2
Pbysical Contigcies                       2.7      1.1        3.8
Price  tinies                           45.6       5.6       51.2
Total Project Cost                      309.4     46.8      356.2 1/
=
Financing Plan:
Governzmnt                              185.2      -        185.2
IBRD                                    124.2     46.8      171.0
TOTAL                                   309.4     46.8      356.2
Estimated Disbursts:
… - - - - - - - - - - - …US$ Millions…
Bank FY     1987 2/ 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994   1995
Annual      16.0    23.2  24.0  25.6  26.0  25.8  15.4   10.0    5.0
Cumulative  16.0    39.2  63.2  88.8  114.8 140.6 156.0  166.0  171.0
Rate of Return:  17%
Map No. TERD 18480
18894
1/ Including about US$14.2 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$7.3 million into the Special Account.



1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Nationa Economy
1.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67Z of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%,
and 38Z, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in
Brazil's agriculture (5Z per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s,
output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
1.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or
high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and
sugarcane, on large commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much
slower growth rates, and in some cases declines, were recorded for such
staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
1.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended
heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar. Of total
agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were accounted for
by these five crop,. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's
US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
B. The Rural Northeast
1.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara,
Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando do
Noronha with a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18Z of the country's total
area) (Map IBRD 18480). The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem
region since the late 1800s.
1.05      Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and limited
employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty and
underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the
region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983). In
1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of the
country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density of 22.5
inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50%
of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than 6% of the
farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than 40% of the
farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In 1980, over 80% of the rural
population earned less than the minimum salary (about US$675 annually, or 35%
of the national average).



-2-
1.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantati n agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of
cattle. The sparsely populated semi-arid sertao, is the largest of the
subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
1.07      Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and
incentives for export crops.  The slow pace of socioeconomic development and
the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was
originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new
private investment. The initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally-funded special
rural programs.
1.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first
was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It included
the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE),
the Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid Region of
the Northeast, and the Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar Growing Zones. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the
effects of droughts. It included several parallel programs such as the Water
Resources Use Program, the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program and the Drought
Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public irrigation
projects.
1.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural pover-y had been limited. The new
initiative is being implemented through a series of sectoral projects in such
areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and integrated'
rural development. The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) is a
15-year program based upon a comprehensive regional policy framework,
subsectoral strategy guidelines, multi-year state rural investment plans and
the integration of all rural special programs under unified planning and
implementation procedures.
D. Fxperience with Past Bank Lending
1.10      The Bank has made 38 loans, totaling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and marketing loan
for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5 million, under the
Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, for US$60.5 million, for livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain



- 3 -
storage; two, for US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255
million for agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure
improvement; and 24, totaling US$1,011.2 million, for various settlement,
irrigation and rural development projects in the Northeastl/, in Minas
Gerais, and in the North and Northwest. The Project Perfonmance Audit Report
for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the
project raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful
in _he areas of environmental protection, community organization, and
strengthening of cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report for the
Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that, despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agriculture.
1.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
devel&pment projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved from
1976 to 1983, six of the projects are still being executed and the other four
have been substantially completed. Implementation has improved over the
years, especially in project planning and agency coordination. All projects
have experienced implementation and disbursement delays mainly because of the
unusually severe 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited
execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and
initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant technology for small
farmers. These problems were addressed during tne preparation of the NRDP.
E. The State of Bahia
Location, Natural Features and Socioeconomic Conditions
1.12      Location and Natural Features.  Bahia, with 560,000 km2 (about the
size of France), is the largest state in the Northeast. It is bordered on
the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south by Minas Gerais, on the west by
Goias, and on the north by Piaui, Pernambuco, Alagoas and Sergipe (Map
1BRD 18894). The Sao Francisco River, which cuts the state from south to
north, separates the eastern two thirds, an area of traditional settlement,
from the western third which is practically unpopulated. Over half the
state, the central and north=rn sections, is considered -sertao- and is part
of the so-called  Drought Polygon, the area of the Northeast which suffers
from chronic drought problems. The eastern and southern sections of the
state, with higher rainfall levels of 1,000 to 2,000 mm/year and fertile
soils, are the main agricultural areas.   Salvador, the capital of Bahia, is
one of the oldest cities in the country and has a population of 1.8 million,
making it the second largest city in the Northeast.
1.13      Social and Economic Conditions.  Bahia's population is nearly 9.5
million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2.4%. Population
density is 17 inhabitants per square kilometer, which is the third lowest in
the Northeast. Abou. 50% of the population lives in urban centers that are
1/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, Washington, D. C., 1983.



4
growing mostly because of migration from rural areas. Because of the rural
exodus, the agricultural sector now employs only about 50% of the state's
active working population, compared to 70Z in 1970. Some 660,000 rural
families, or about 70% of Bahia's rural population, earn an income below the
relative poverty level of about US$330 per capita.
Land Tenure, Production and Agricultural Services
1.14      Land Tenure and Production.  The agricultural area in Bahia
comprises about 30 million ha, of which an estimated 4.4 million ha (15Z) are
arable land, 14 million ha (47Z) are grazing land, and 11.6 million ha (38%)
are forest or bushland. Land ownership is skewed: about 54% of all farms
are less than 10 ha and account for only 4.1% of the total farm area
(Annex 1); about 0.5% of farms larger than 100 ha account for nearly 33% of
the total farm land. Although 84% of the farmers are classified as owners,
few have legal title to their property. Agriculture in Bahia is based mainly
on ten crops, of which the State is the country's leading producer of cacao
(92Z), sisal (60%), and castor beans (47Z). With respect to livestock, Bahia
accounts for 34Z of the national goat and sheep production. The cropping
area is growing at a rate of about 7% per year, and the three main
subsistence crops-cassava, maize and beans-accounted in 1982 for about 53%
of the cropped area and were mainly produced on small- and mediur-sized farms
(Annex 2).
1.15      Agricultural Services.  A number of government agencies provide
services and promote agricultural development. The state agricultural
research company, EPABA, operates one central station in Salvador and ten
experiment stations throughout the state and has a staff of about 80
agronomists. In addition, EMBRAPA, the Federal Agricultural Research
Company, maintains one production-oriented research center for cassava and
tropical fruit in Cruz das Almas (Bahia). Agriculture extension is provided
by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-BA)
through a network of regional and subregional offices. EMATER-BA has a total
staff of about 900 extension workers and 170 social workers. Four major
banks, the Bank of Brazil, the State Bank of Bahia, the National Bank for
Cooperative Credit, and the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil, provide credit
to farmers and maintain an adequate branch network throughout the State. The
State Rural Engineering Company (CERB), experienced in groundwater
exploitation, is responsible for the construction of rural water supply and
small-scale public irrigation systems. EBAL, the State Food Company, is
active in urban and rural areas and is considered one of the best run food
retail companies in Bahia. Agricultural inputs are mainly provided through
private suppliers; seed by the public State enterprise, Sementes Formoso
S.A.  Land regularization and land titling is entrusted to the State Land
Institute (INTERBA). Tne State Company for Regional Development Action
(CAR), linked to the State Secretary of Planning, is responsible for
coordination and administration of all state rural development programs.
Rural Development
1.16      Since 1978 the Government of Bahia has initiated three rural
development projects under the POLONORDESTE Program. Two of these projects
are partially financed by the Bank: the Bahia Rural Development (Paraguacu)



- 5 -
Project (Loan 1589-BR) with a loan of US$37 million approved on June 6, 1978,
and the Second Bahia Rural Development (Nordeste) Project (Loan 2269-BR) with
a loan of US$67.8 million approved on April 26, 1983. A third project, the
Irece Rural Development Project, is partially financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) with a loan of US$36.8 million approved in 1982.
Rural water-related investments are being financed under the Water Resources
Use Program, and the State has initiated some rural development efforts in
the vicinity of the large, man-made Sobradinho Lake and the Sao Francisco
River.
1.17      Experience with the Bank-financed projects is generally consistent
with that of other POLONORDESTE projects (para. 1.11). Under the Paraguacu
project, appraisal targets for extension were surpassed with some 30,000
farmers receiving assistance. The Bank loan closed in December 1985. The
Second Bahia Rural Development Project is designed to raise the income and
living standards of some 45,000 rural families through land regularization,
agricultural services (irrigation, water supply, extension and rural credit),
roads, and health and education services. The Loan is expected to close in
1988. The proposed project would only begin to finance agricultural services
in the areas included in the Second Bahia Rural Development Project once the
funds allocated for these purposes are fully disbursed (para. 3.06).
Similarly, the Irece project, financed by IDB, is assisting about 15,000
small farmers. These three ongoing projects are part of the Rural
Development Plan of the State of Bahia. Investments in services and
iafrastructure under the ongoing projects have increased Bahia's
institutional capacity and provide a firm basis for further investments in
rural development.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.01      The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support poverty
alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of Brazil.
Common problems detected in the ongoing projects (paras. 1.11 and 1.17),
skewed pattern of land ownership, and the experience gained by SUDENE and
state institutions, convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified
regional and sectoral appraoch was needed.
2.02      In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP, which will eventually consist of ten projects. In April
1985, as part of the Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural
Development Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of Sergipe
and Rio Grande do Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural
Development Plan, the first project established the structure and operating
procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to
support all ter. Northeast state rural development plans. In June 1985, the
Bank approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan
2593-BR), which finances land cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern
states. In June 1986, the Bank approved a Northsast Rural Development



-6-
Project for the State of Pernambuco (Loan 2718-BR); similar projects for the
States of Piaui and Ceara are presented jointly with the proposed project. A
project for the State of Maranhao has already been appraised, and the three
remaining projects for the States of Alagoas, Paraiba and Minas Gerais are
being prepared for Bank appraisal. Preparation of the proposed project in
Bahia began in 1983 and was carried out by CAR, assisted by federal and
regional technicians, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and the Bank.
B. Project Objectives and Strategy
2.03      The proposed project, the third in the series planned for the NRDP,
would constitute the initial phase of Bahia's 15-year rural development
investment program. Major objectives would be to (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of Bahia; (b) generate income and
employment opportunities for low-income farm families who have access to less
than 100 ha of land each; (c) increase state and regional institutional
capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; and (d)
promote water resource development and technology generation and diffusion to
decrease small farmer vulnerability to recurring drought cycles.
2.04      Design of the Northeast Rural Development Program has attempted to
draw upon successful rural development experiences in Northeast Brazil.
Program preparation has resulted in the formulation of regional guidelines
for beneficiary selection, investment strategy and activities, and operating
criteria and procedures. Tentative investment targets and expected benefits
have also been established per state. The guidelines are to be incorporated
in the design and implementation of multiyear state rural development plans
in all ten Northeast states. The unification of existing federally-funded
special rural programs, tne strengthening of planning and implementation
capabilities, and the promotion of active beneficiary involvement have
received priority attention in project design. Objectives, strategy,
criteria, procedures and detailed first-year implementation plans have been
reviewed for each project activity. Detailed programming in each subsequent
year would result from an extensive annual planning exercise, taking into
account implementation progress in previous years.
Priority Areas
2.05      For planning purposes, the State Secretary of Planning has divided
Bahia into ten regions. Out of these ten regions, the State selected six,
namely, Paraguacu, Nordeste, Irece, Sobradinho, Serra Geral and Oeste, as
high priority areas for development. These six regions include 161
municipalities (Annex 3).   They were selected with the objective of
accelerating development where small farmers and basic food crop production
predominate, but where there is still considerable underdeveloped
agricultural potential and a need for improved services. The regions
selected have also been partly subjezt to prior cadastral and land titling
operations and would receive priority attention under the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project. Three out of the six priority regions are
currently benefiting from ongoing rural development projects and would become
an integral part of the NRDP.



-7-
Amerindian Assistance
2.06      There are some 3,700 Amerindians in the Northeast region living on
Indian reserves at Nirandela, Massacara, and Brejo do Burgos. These
Amerindians have lived in permanent contact with the national society since
colonial times and are considered to be largely acculturated. One area, the
Mirandela Reserve, which was demarcated by the National Indian Foundation
(FUNAI) in 1982, is a focus of tension, due to the presence of some 10,000
non-Amerindians who ha7e been farming what is, on the basis of legal
evidence, Amerindian reserve land for several generations.
2.07      Under Bank Loan 2269-BR assurances were provided by the Government
that areas occupied by Amerindians and non-Amerindians would not benefit from
project-financed activities until outstanding land issues, particularly the
size of the Indian reserves and their occupancy by non-Amerindians, had been
solved. Therefore, the proposed project includes only one of these areas
(the municipality of Gloria) where an agreement has been reached already on
the demarcation of the Pankarare reserve at Brejo do Burgos.
C. Project Description Summary
2.08      The project would consist of two major groups of activities:  those
related to the Bahia Rural Development Plan and those related to regional
agricultural research under the NRDP. A complementary program of land
activities would be carried out under the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project (para. 1.10). The latter set of activities would serve
both the proposed project and future rural development projects covering all
ten Northeast states.
2.09      Activities related to the Bahia Rural Development Plan would focus
on:
(a) water resource development, including construction of small
irrigation schemes, increased inland fish production, simple rural
water supply systems for small communities, feasibility studies and
a small reserve fund for future state irrigation subprojects;
(b) agricultural research and basic seed production at state level,
including agro-ecological studies, on-farm research and forestry
and fishery research trials;
(c) agricultural extension for subsistence and commercial crops, small
livestock and social forestry;
(d)  rural investment credit, including medium- and long-term rural
credit for investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm
water resource development;
(e) marketing services, including training, information services,
improvement to the food and retail supply systems in rural areas
and the marketing of agricultural inputs;



-8-
(f)  support to small rural communities, including the promotion of
beneficiary participation through a community development fund for
local training programs, group economic activities, and local
infrastructure subprojects; and
(g) state project administration and training, strengthening central
coordination and regional field offices for supervision,
implementation assistance, training, monitoring and evaluation of
state rural development activities.
Project activities, to be implemented over an eight-year period, would
directly benefit about 80,000 low-income farm families located in the six
priority areas within the state. An estimated additional 150,000 families
would benefit from the water supply, forestry, community development and
marketing components. The project would have a considerable impact on rural
poverty, since virtually all its benefits would accrue to rural farm families
whose incomes are below the poverty level. Once the project is completed, an
estimated 170,000 low-income farm families would have benefited from the
Rural Development Program in Bahia, either through the proposed project or
through earlier ones now under implementation (para. 1.16).
2.10      Agricultural research activities under the regional program would
generate small farm technology for cassava, goats and sheep, and tropical
fruits at three commodity research centers located in the Northeast and
provide technical assistance to state research agencies.
D. Detailed Project Features
i) The Bahia Rural Development Plan
Water Resource Development
2.11      The project would increase water availability for both production
and consumption uses by financing: (a) construction of one public irrigation
scheme at Itapera (Sobradinho) totaling about 1,045 ha and benefiting about
350 farm families; (b) feasibility studies of areas with irrigation
potential; and if justified by such studies, construction of up to ten small
irrigation schemes to benefit up to 2,500 ha; (c) feasibility studies for
about 8,600 ha of new irrigable land to be developed under a subsequent phase
of the NRDP; (d) construction of about 250 simple water supply systems
benefiting about 100,000 people in communities with less than 500
inhabitants; (e) construction of one fish hatchery at Sao Jose do Jacuipa to
reach annual production of 1.2 million fingerlings; and (f) the institutional
strengthening of the irrigation department of CERB. In addition, about 6,600
ha of individual private irrigation and about 80 ha of fish ponds would be
financed under the rural investment credit component (paras. 2.26-2.28).
2.12      CERB, with support from the Interamerican Institute for Cooperation
on Agriculture (IICA), would be the executing agency for this component. Its
existing Irrigation Department would be elevated in category, staffed with
additional qualified managers and reorganized to handle specific activities



-9-
and projects. It would have its central headquarters in Salvador and local
offices at each of the proposed irrigation sites. For implementation of
individual irrigation subprojects CERB would enter into agreements with CAR,
INTERBA and EKAIER-BA, and besides primary responsibilities for planning and
construction, would promote the formation of water user associations for
operation and maintenance of the newly constructed small-scale irrigation
schemes.
2.13      Because of the need to gradually build state planning and
implementation capabilities, the planning and execution of the irrigation
subprojects would follow a phased schedule. A complete and satisfactory
feasibility study, proof of land ownership and operation and maintenance
proposals for the Itapera subproject, expected to be initiated during the
first project year, were received prior to negotiations. Receipt of final
subproject designs would be a condition of disbursement. For about ten
irrigation subprojects, up to about 2,500 ha, resulting from the feasibility
studies financed under the project (para. 2.11 (b)), proof of land
acquisition, resettlement plans, operation and maintenance plans and complete
final designs would be sent to the Bank for approval prior to construction
and would be a conzition for disbursement. An amount of US$4.0 million
equivalent has been set aside to finance the construction of about 10 public
irrigatlon schemes, up to 2,500 ha, which were not sufficiently prepared at
appraisal time, to be built if justified by feasibility studies included in
the project (para. 2.11 (b) above). If the amount so allocated has not been
committed to a specific subproject approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988, it
would be cancelled. During negotiations the State Government provided
assurances that (a) cost recovery provisions would be implemented for public
irrigation schemes in accordance with Federal Government legislation; and (b)
the agreed-upon measures for the strengthening of the Irrigation Department
of CERB (para. 2.12) would be carried out as specified within 6 months after
Loan signature.
2.14      Project investment costs, including pumping stations, pipelines,
canals and drains are estimated to cost about US$2,700 per ha for the Itapera
scheme. Current legislation requires CERB to collect water and other charges
from users of public irrigation at such levels as will permit funll recovery
of operation and maintenance expenditures and a certain proportion of capital
costs. On-farm works in the amount of about US$670 per ha would be financed
by beneficiaries using rural investment credit.
2.15      About 250 simple community water supply systems would be built
during the first three years of the project. After this period, it is
expected that a regional rural water supply project would continue funding
these activities. Each simple water supply system would include a deep well
or surface source, pumping equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank,
and one or more standpipes that would serve 60-100 families. Selection
criteria for communities would include village size, per capita investment
costs, and community willingness to assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance. Distribution systems would be designed for an average flow of
50 liters per capita per day. The per capita investment costs of the
complete simplified systems average between US$50 and US$80.



- 10 -
2.16      Water supply systems would only be built after the recipient
community has been organized to operate and maintain them. Although it is
not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for
low-income families, current legislation allows CERB to recover 10OZ of
annual operation and maintenance costs and public investments in common
irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a 50-year period. The initial
investment is revalued but without charging interest. The municipalities
would cover the costs of operation and maintenance of the water supply
services until the Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program begins
in 1988; at that stage consumers would be expected to pay for the service.
During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that starting
in 1989, CERB would apply water charges which would cover full operation and
maintenance costs.
2.17      CERB would also construct, c'erate and maintain one fish hatchery
station at Sao Jose do Jacuipa with a capacity to produce about 1.2 million
fingerlings per year mainly on selected Tilapia hybrids. The fingerlings
would be distributed directly by the company to individual farmers through
on-farm credit and to small rural communities for public ponds and lakes.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
2.18      The national and state research programs have developed a
considerable number of technical recommendations to improve agricultural
productivity. However, it is recognized that many of these need to be
redirected towards improved adaptation of low-cost technologies for small
farms to make them more resistant to drought conditions.   The project would
finance (a) 24 agro-ecological and natural resource studies to assist in
future research planning; (b) about 400 short- and mediur-term applied
research trials at the experiment stations to improve production technology;
Cc) about 180 farm-level observation units to test and adapt integrated farm
production systems; (d) annual basic seed production from about 375 ha;
Ce) 24 forestry research trials to identify the most appropriate fodder,
fuelwood and fruit species; (f) 35 fish research activities based on the
Sobradinho Lake area; and (g) incremental equipment, salaries, training and
other operating expenses related to these activities.
2.19      The State Agricultural Research Compa-y (EPABA) would be the main
implementing agency, except for fish research which would be carried out by
the State Research and Development Center (CEPED).   Technical supervision,
training, dissemination of results, coordination with research programs in
other states and review of annual plans would be the responsibility of the
Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA),
which receives support for these activities under the Northeast Rural
Development Project - Sergipe. EMBRAPA would assist in the preparation of
the forestry research program.
2.20      EPABA would develop the farm research system in cooperation with
the farmers and representatives of EMATER-BA, the state extension service.
EPABA technicians would have the responsibility for implementing the research
program and would closely monitor the technical and economic results. Each
farm would be representative of the particular type and size of farm
prevalent in the surrounding area. Cooperating farmers would agree to follow
a program involving introduction of improved technology on their farm and



- 11 -
would contribute to the investments, mostly In the form of labor, and
materials.  After five years, these farms would become demonstration farms
under the responsibility of EHATER-BA.
2.21      EPABA would expand an existing program to produce basic seeds of
five major crops: rice, beans, maize, grain sorghum and castor beans.
Production from about 375 ha of irrigated land would be done either on EPABA
research farms or with cooperating farmers. The project would finance
investment costs for sheds, vehicles, tractors, agricultural equipment and
incremental salaries and operating expenses. The seed produced under this
program would be sold to Sementes Formoso S.A., which would organize contract
farmers to multiply it. This seed would then be processed in facilities
operated by EPABA; after processing, the seed would be marketed through EBAL
(para. 2.32).
Agricultural Extension
2.22      EHATER-BA is already providing technical assistance to about 90,000
farm families in the area under two Bank- and one IDB-financed projects
(para. 1.16). Under the proposed project, services would be expanded to
reach an additional 80,000 farm families. By Year 8 of the project, a total
of 170,000 farm families would benefit from extension activities. This
represents 38% of the 452,000 farm families in the project area operating
farms less than 100 ha in size. The project would finance: (a) the
construction and equipping of 6 new regional offices, 37 local offices with
residence and 6 local offices without residence; (b) establishment of about
5,000 demonstration plots; (c) hiring of about 560 local agricultural
extension agents and 280 socia] extension workers, about 75 subject-matter
specialists, as well as supervisory personnel and related administrative
staff; (d) the production of about 30 million tree seedlings; (e) a goat
production program; and (f) project-related vehicles, training and operating
costs.
2.23      EMATER-BA field staff is organized into 18 regional units.  Most
supervisory personnel and subject-matter specialists would be located in the
regional offices but would travel about 50% of the time to supervise and
assist local extension agents. Each agent would assist on a fixed schedule
six to eight groups of 20-25 farmers organized around contact farmers and
demonstration plots. The ratio of extension agents to farm families would
decline from 1:160 in Year 1 of the project to 1:265 in Year 5 and to 1:300
by Year 8. Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension (EMBRATER), who would visit the priority areas at least once
a month, would give technical supervision and advice to EMATER-BA.
In-service training of extension staff would benefit from technical
assistance provided by EMBRAPA through CPATSA.
2.24      Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices which would improve yields, expand the cultivated area and increase
livestock production. Such practices have been tested and would include:
(a) increased use of animal traction to achieve more timely and better land
preparation; (b) use of certified seeds; (c) contour ploughing to improve
water and soil conservation; (d) better weed control; (e) use of
drought-resistant crops like sorghum; (f) improved livestock husbandry;



- 12 -
(g) improved pastures and cultivated forage crops; and (h) planting of
drought-resistant forage species such as alg--roba, forage cactus and buffel
grass.
2.25      Social extension workers, cooperating in teams with extension
agents, would work with farm families to improve sanitation, child care,
cottage industry, family nutrition and small animal husbandry.  They would be
actively involved in the small rural community development component.
Families would also be encouraged to increase home food supplies by planting
vegetables. Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for
implementing forestry activities aimed at producing some 30 million seedlings
for farmers to plant on their land for fuelwood, smaLl timber and fodder.
About 500 small nurseries would be installed at village level, and EMATER-BA
technical staff would be specifically trained in seedling production,
distribution, and wood lot management. Tree seedlings would be distributed
free of charge. EMAIER-BA agents would supervise the establishment of the
nurseries and farmers would receive seedlings and advice on planting and
maintenance of their wood lots.
Rural Investment Credit
2.26      The project would finance medium- and long-term credit for on-farm
investments for 30,000 farmers (37% of the 80,000 direct beneficiaries). A
greater number would receive short-term production credit to be financed by
the participating banks (para. 1.15). Farmers would contribute with their
labor to on-farm investments, but due to limited savings after the drought,
financing would cover up to 10OZ of goods required for on-farm investment
costs with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a maximum grace
period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than
4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed
ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's Manual
for Rural Credit for individual farmers and also for farmer's associations
and cooperatives, provided 70% of their members are small farmers who would
directly benefit from the investment.
2.27      Proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant basis, to
participating federal agencies and the State of Bahia. In the case of
agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans disbursed
by the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986 financial and
monetary reform, the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a new interest
rate policy for rural credit. This policy is aimed at maintaining interest
rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate according to
market conditions. Another important policy objective would be to reduce
credit subsidies substantially. There would be a general agricultural
interest rate, applicable to rural investment credit operations outside the
North and Northeast regions, equal to the rate on commercial banks'
certificates of deposit (Certificados de Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10
percentage points. This rate would be adjusted every six months, on March
1st and September 1st of each year, to a level 10 percentage points below the
CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term credit, the interest rate would be



- 13 -
initially set at the level prevailing for investment credit at the time of
signing the contract and would remain fixed for the term of the loan. Until
February 28, 1987, the general rate has been fixed at 10% and it is expected
that, in subsequent periods, the rate will fluctuate near 10% in real terms.
The interest rates for investment and short-term credit to be applied to the
small Northeast farmers who would benefit from the proposed project would be:
2 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane,
cocoa, coffee and ruboer; 3 per _ntage points below the general rate, for
investments in irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points
below the general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 1988 and
thereafter; and 30% of the general rate, for other investments. These rates
represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until last
February.
2.28      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
paras. 2.2o and 2.27 above; (c) each of the participating banks would provide
monthly information to SUDENE and CAR on investment credit availability,
demand and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be given by the
participating banks to allocations of short-term production credit to their
agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance the working
capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new rural interest policy
referred to in para. 2.27 above has provided the basis for an amendment to
the original agreement between the Lank and the Government on rural interest
rates (negotiated in February 1983), in connection with the Agricultural
Credit and Export Development Project (Loan 2348-BR). This amendment also
provides for an annual review of Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the
Bank and the Government.
Marketing Services
2.29      The marketing service component is designed to increase farmers'
knowledge of markets and prices, improve the timely provision and marketing
of agricultural inputs and expand an efficient food retail service throughout
the project area (Annex 4). In order to achieve these objeccives, the
project would include: (a) construction of four service centers and
establishment and operation of a marketing information service;
(b) expansion of EBAL's rural retail retwork; (c) construct-:on of 117 annexes
to EBAL's rural retail outlets for the sale of agricultural inputs; and (d)
construction of 12 and repair of 9 storage facilities to support a small
crop-purchasing program for farmers living in remote areas, to be financed by
the Government.
2.30      The four new service centers (in addition to two existing centers)
would provide farmers with timely advice on local and regional prices,
storage facilities, transport and selling options. The marketing and



- 14 -
information service would be coordinated by CAR staff (one coordinator for
each center). The centers, which would be constructed by CEASA-BA (Central
Marketing Organization of Bahia), would also be used by EBAL as packaging
plants and as distribution points of food supplies to rural retail shops. In
addition to the marketing and information service, farmers would benefit from
a marketing extension service given by agricultural extension agents.
Training would be implemented by the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) through
its training division. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that CAR would enter into an agreement with (a) CEASA and EBAL for
the use of the service centers; and (b) COBAL for training of agricultural
extension agents in marketing not later than six months after loan signature.
2.31      Currently, EBAL has 295 retail shops (Cesta do Povo) in 136
municipalities throughout Bahia.  These shops sell about 50 essential food,
cleaning, and household items. EBAL's prices are on average 25% lower than
other rural retail shops for such items as sugar, beans and soap and have a
stabilizing price effect on rice, coffee an oil. Under the project, the
Government of Bahia would construct an additional 59 shops to ensure that
each municipality in the project area would have one EBAL retail shop. The
project would finance the initial stock for the newly constructed shops; in
addition, a pilot scheme to equip and stock 12 mobile shops would be Included
to operate in remote areas.
2.32      The project would finance the construction of 137 annexes to EBAr's
rural retail shops for marketing of agricultural inputs. EBAL retail staff
would manage the sale of agricultural inputs as part of their normal duties;
improved seed would be acquired from Sementes Formoso S.A. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that Sementes Formoso
S.A. and EBAL would enter into agreement for the purchase and marketing of
improved seed, not later than six months after loan signature.
2.33      The Federal Government finances a smaLl crop-purchasing program
estimated to cost about US$3 million over the life of the project. This
program benefits small farmers living in remote areas with difficult access
roads, lack of local storage facilities, and poor marketing outlets. It
helps farmers who are in a weak bargaining position in obtaining a fair price
for their small surpluses from private intermediaries Who pay minimum prices
for their crops. A similar crop purchasing program at the state level is
having good reaults in the State of Paraiba. The crop purchasing program in
Bahia would be administered by CAR in cooperation with EBAL, which markets
the production through its own retail stores; this program would be supported
through the construction of 12 storage sheds and the repair of 9 additional
storage facilities for crop storage. During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that CAR would enter into an agreement with
EBAL for the operation and management of storage facilities, not later than
six months after loan signature.
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
2.34      This component would encourage small farmers to organize themselves
in groups to boost their level of economic activity, thus creating job
opportunities. In order to carry out this objective, the component would
include (a) creation of a community fund of about US$32.0 million to provide
grants for local development projects; (b) purchase of vehicles and



- 15 -
equipment; and (c) hiring and training of about 90 community development
staff. It is estimated that most of the 170,000 families residing in the
project area would benefit directly or indirectly as a result of these
activities.
2.35      The SSRC fund would finance three categories of local development
projects, namely:
(a)  community organization, representing not more than 5Z of the fund
for training group leaders and strengthening farmers' groups,
associations, cooperatives and syndicates; and legal assistance for
land matters related to the implementation of the NRDP;
(b)  agricultural and non-agricultural local development projects,
representing at least 55Z of the fund. The fund would finance:
cottage industries and small village enterprises, such as
confectionery, tailoring, fruit processing, arts and crafts;
equipment for the processing of agricultural products, such as
decorticators and flour mills; agricultural implements; building of
fish ponds; small animal production schemes and animal traction;
and
(c) community infrastructural schemes, representing not more than 40%
of the fund. The fund would finance small drainage schemes, repair
of small access roads, construction of communal laundry facilities,
repair of communal pumps and construction of small tanks for
collection of rain water.
2.36      CAR would be responsible for the implementation of the SSRC
component. It would recruit community development agents, who would be
university graduates mainly transferred from EMATER-BA and would include
sociologists, agricultural extension agents and social workers with two to
three years of field experience. These agents would encourage and stimulate
coumunity organization and assist in the formulation of group requests for
local projects. During an eight-year period, one agent would cover some
14 communities. Group requests would be submitted to municipal councils for
discussion, analysis, evaluation and approval. Each proposal would contain
an explanation of objectives, benefits expected, method of implementation,
detailed costs and group cost sharing, either in cash or in kind. Based on
annual operating plans, funds would be allocated to the six regions, though
flexibility would be maintained in accordance with regional progress and
group capabilities. Priority would be given to organized groups with strong
leadership and past experience in community organization, a number of which
are voluntary, legally registered agencies. Guidelines have been established
in order to ensure that only priority local development projects are selected
and that they become self-sustaining (Annex 5).
2.37      Municipal Council members would be elected by localities (a
locality is roughly equivalent to a village), and each locality would send
two representatives to the Council.  The Council would meet regularly, and
the relevant community development agent and subregional state coordinator
from CAR would also participate to analyze and evaluate group requests.
Approval of local development projects would be carried out by a simple



- 16 -
majority vote. CAR could reverse the Municipal Council's recommendation if
it does not conform with the stated guidelines, or postpone funding if funds
have been exhausted for the current fiscal year. The commercial-type
activities of the SSCR fund (para. 2.35 (b)) would be closely monitored and
reviewed by CAR and the Bank to examine the feasibility of some cost recovery
from the beneficiaries.
2.38      Payment would be made by installments and progress in
implementation would be supervised by community development agents. In the
case of a legally registered association or group, payment would be made
directly to the group through a bank account. In the case of an unregistered
group, the agreement would be signed by the municipality on behalf of the
group, and funds would be channelled through the municipality. During
negotiations, the State Governmenr provided assurances that (a) the community
fund would be established and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds would be released prior to the signing
of the written agreement between CAR and the group or municipality; and (c)
not Later than December 31, 1988, CAR would review with the Bank, performance
of grants for the economic subprojects to establish the feasibility of
carrying out further community fund operations on a loan basis (para. 2.37).
State Project Administration and Training
2.39      CAR would be responsible for administering and coordinating all
federally-funded rural programs (including training) and for fully
integrating them under the project. The project would strengthen CAR's
organizational and administrative capabilities by financing salaries of about
100 higher level and related support staff, travel expenses, office
equipment, training and other operating costs. The current administrative
organization for the ongoing rural development projects of Paraguacu,
Nordeste sad Irece and other special programs would be restructured to ensure
uniformity within the state rural development program.  It would cousist of
-one executive secretariat, seven centralized services and six regional
project offices at the central level and 19 field offices at the local
level. Terms of reference and qualifications of key staff are satisfactory.
During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that CAR would
be staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.40      Training activities under the project would be administered by
CAR's training unit to facilitate the coordination and avoid duplication of
effort. The training program would include (a) induction training for all
high- and middle-level CAR staff attached to the project; (b) management
training for executing agencies; (c) technical training for executing agency
staff; (d) training of trainers for executing agencies and CAR staff;
(e) training of farmers in community development, marketing, credit and other
services provided by the project; and (f) specialized training for selected
project staff either in local universities or short trips abroad.
Land Tenure Improvement
2.41      Increased access to land of sufficient quantity and quality and
secure tenure for landless and small farmers would be essential for sustained
rural development in the Northeast. The lands required in the State of Bahia
would be identified as part of the surveying and cadastral activities to be



- 17 -
financed under the Land Tenure Improvement Project and subsequevtly acquired
through purchase or expropriation by the Government. The improvement of land
tenure conditions throughout the Northeast is such a vast and complex task
that it justifies a single, region-wide project, rather than a component in
each state rural development project. Activities have been planned jointly,
and coordination mechanisms have been established at the regional and state
levels. Targets (based on need, availability of suitable land, type of
farming planned, and expected institutional capabilities), procedures and
criteria for land acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection have been
established. Secure access to land by sharecroppers, landless laborers and
small farmers would increase the expected impact and benefits of the proposed
project and contribute to the alleviation of poverty in the region. During
negotiations, the Federal and the State Government provided assurances that:
(a) at least 300,000 ha in the priority areas would be available for
redistribution to project beneficiaries by March 31, 1987; and (b) at least
an additional 370,000 ha in the priority areas would be available for
redistribution to project beneficiaries by March 31, 1989.
ii) Regional Agricultural Research
2.42      In addition to the state agricultural research component
(para. 2.18), the project would support regional production research
activities in three federally funded commodity research centers located in
the Northeast; namely, the National Research Center for Goat and Sheep
Production (CNPC) located at Sobral in Ceara, the National Research Center
for Cassava and Tropical Fruit Production (CNPMF) located at Cruz das Almas
in Bahia, and the National Research Center for Cotton Production (CNPA)
located in Campina Grande, Paraiba. The objectives of their specific
production-oriented participation would be to strengthen the generation of
technology for small farmers and to further increase linkages between
regional and state research activities. The project would finance:
(a) incremental costs of 22 higher level and 53 support staff; (b) vehicles;
{c) travel and operating expenses necessary for implementation of the
research program; and (d) incremental laboratory and field equipment.
2.43      The production-oriented research program would benefit the whole
Northeast of Brazil with the provision of improved and disease-free
cultivars, foundation seed for cotton, and higher producing strains of goat
and sheep. Research staff of the centers would be in frequent contact with
state research personnel. Staff of the national centers would carry out
on-farm trials within states working in collaboration with their counterparts
at the state level. State-level staff would also travel to the national
centers to observe on-station research activities. Technical supervision,
dissemination of results, coordination with research program in other
states, and review of the annual plan of activities would be the
responsibility of CPATSA (para. 2.19). During negotiations, the Federal
Government provided assurances that no later than six months after loan
signature and under the guidance of EMBRAPA, a written agreement would be
signed by the three national production centers (CNPC, CNPMF, CNPA), SUDENE
and CPATSA outlining their respective obligations and responsibilities.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.01      Total project costs over the eight-year investment period are
estimated at US$356.2 million, with a direct and indirect foreign exchange
component of US$46.8 million, or about 13%, based on the assumption that all
goods and services would be acquired in Brazil with the exception of
specialized consultants' services.  The cost estimate includes about US$14.2
million equivalent in applicable local taxes. Physical and price
contingencies are equivalent to 1.3Z and 17% of baseline costs,
respectively.  Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15% for
irrigation and water supply construction; 10% for other construction; and 5%
for equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies were estimated in
US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 7.0Z for
1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5% for 1991
and thereafter.  It was assumed that periodic local currency devaluations,
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for
differences between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1, and annual phasing of the
investments is shown in Annex 6.
Taile 3.1: Total Project Costs
US$ iiliczs      % Foreig   Z IBas1ine
Project ActiviEty                      !x-=l   Foreign  Total   Elmnwg      Cost
A  Water Rescuire DTveloupMEt         20.5    8.0    28.5      28          9
B. Agriculturl Basarch
and Basic Seed Protuctiam       23.8    3.9    27.7       14          9
C. Agdrltural FEtemsion               67.0    5.6    72.6       8         24
D. Rharl aInvestzet Credit            63.6   11.2    74.8      15         25
E. !ueti  9gServices                  9.7    2.0    11.7       17          4
F.  upport to a.laral Ch m-1ties      36.2    6.0    42.3      14         14
G. State Project A&*dstcratln         33.3    2.4    35.7 a/    7         12
Sub-Tbtal                            254.1   39.1   293.2      13         97
B4g*nail Production basearch           7.0    1.0      8.0     13          3
Total Baseline CAst                  261.1   40.1   301.2      13        100
Phdyscal Omtixgei2es                   2.7    1.1      3.8     30          1
Pri Centn  ide                        45.6    5.6    51.2      11         17
TOTAL PlFD    GM1s                   309.4 b/ 46.8   356.2     13        118
a/ Inelles about UI$5.0 =1on for =tanirg.
l mc    abot 7B$14.2  Llioa in local   s.



- 19 -
B. Financing
3.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$171.0 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would finance 50Z of total project costs net of taxes.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs and 40% of local costs. The loau would be for 15 years, including
3 years of grace and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which
would carrv the foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as
necessary to complete the project. Funding procedures would be those adopted
for the NRDP. Funds would be chaimelled from the Treasury, through MINTER
and SUDENE, to either a specific project account in the State for activities
executed by state agencies or directly to federal executing agencies.
Monthly advances of Government counterpart funds would also be made through
the Central Bank to cover the estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures.
The Government, moreover, took additional decisions in August 1986 to ensure
the timely availability of counterpart funds. These decisions include the
provision in the annual Federal Budget of the fall amount required for the
execution of all the Northeast Rural Development projects; the monthly
release of these resources in accordance with schedules and amounts agreed
upon with the Bank; and the simplification of procedures for channelling the
released funds to the project executing untts.
3.03      To ensure timely project imple:aentation, various stert-up
activities, including those related to ;taffing, training, irrigation
studies, and employment of consultants, have already been initiated.
Retroactive financing of up to US$5 million equivalent is proposed to help
cover eligible start-up expenditures made after January 1, 1986, but before
loan signature, excluding agricultural investment credit, agricultural
extension, irrigation and water supply in the Paraguacu and Nordeste
regions.
C. Procurement
3.04      All civil works, estimated at US$37.0 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding. Federal procedures have
been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. On the State level, however,
some practices are not in full compliance with Bank's guidelines for
procurement, and the Government has undertaken steps to ensure that local
competitive bidding procedures would be satisfactory to the Bank. Brazil has
a competitive local construction industry that is capable of carrying out
project works. Since the individual construction works are relatively small
and quite dispersed (no single civil works contract is expected to exceed
US$500,000), foreign contractors are not expected to be interested; however,
they would not be excluded from bidding. Some community development civil
works would be carried out by the beneficiaries under written agreements with
CAR. Miscellaneous equipment, materials and vehicles required by the
project, totalling some US$16.0 million, are almost all locally produced and
readily available. Such items, which would be purchased by the several
executing agencies in various locations over the project implementation
period, would be procured in accordance with government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultancy services, totalling some 16
man-years for technical assistance and special studies, would be procured
both locally and internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 20 -
3.05      Civil works contracts estimated to cost over US$200,000 and goods
and services contracts over US$50,000 would be subject to prior Bank review
of procurement documentation. With these thresholds, prior Bank review would
involve about 65 contracts over a period of about eight years and is expected
to cover about 60% of civil works and goods procured under this project; this
is reasonable in light of the Government's procurement expertise and the
expected workload for Bank staff.  During supervision, the Bank would
randomly check smaller contracts. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that the procurement procedures described
above would be followed.
Table 3.2: ProcurmintArraoxnt
(u-s$ mlflimu)
Type of Project                               Proacemmt Medtrds
Frcp.x1iture            _____         OILB  Cther           NA.           Total
CLvil WoIrs              37.0  (24.0)                                   37.0  (24.0)
Bquipint, Vehcles
and Pbrnitute          16.0  (7.0)                                    16.0   (7.0)
Tehbical Assistaro                       1.7   (1.2)                     1.7   (1.2)
S-taies and Trainirg                                     11.2  (5.9)    11.2   (5.9)
PAwal luveStMEMt Credit                                  74.8  (52.4)    74.8  (52.4)
local DeoelOPMExt Sabprojects                            20.9  (14.6)    20.9  (14.6)
Salaries ard AlloUances                                 136.4  (46.3)   136.4  (46.3)
Otbe Operatirg Edess                                     58.2  (19.6)    58.2  (19.6)
IurAL               53.0  (31.0)   1.7   (1.2)    301.5 (138.8)   356.2  (171.0)
Note: Pigures in psrentbeses are tie estimted respective amotnts to be financed by tie Bark.



- 21 -
D. Disbursements
3.06      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed through an
eight and a half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development, credit and support to small
communities; a rate of 50Z would be used against expenditures made for
marketing. Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high
rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$7.0 million for state agricultural
research, US$14.0 million for extension, US$8.0 million for administration
and training and US$2.3 million for regional research have been disbursed.
Thereafter, disbursements would be made at a rate of 30% of project
expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$9.0 million for state
agricultural research, US$22.0 million for extension, US$11.5 million for
administration and training and US$3.0 million for regional research have
been disbursed; the remaining funds for these categories would be disbursed
at 102 of expenditures. No disbursements would be made for irrigation, water
supply, extension and rural investment credit activities carried out in any
of the municipalities included in the Second Bahia Rural Development Project
until funds allocated for those purposes under Loan 2269-BR have been fully
disbursed, committed or cancelled (para. 1.17). Disbursement projections
reflect the disbursement profile for previous agricultural projects in
Brazil. The Project Completion Date would be September 30, 1994 and the
Closing Date would be March 31, 1995 (Annex 7).
3.07      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under statements of
expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by CAR.
Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made
available during project supervision. Standard documentation for civil
works, vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance with contract values
exceeding US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. In order to reduce
Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account would be opened in
the Central Bank witai an initial deposit of up to US$7.3 million. The
Government may request the Bank to make advance payments of dollars from the
Loan Account into this Special Account. Withdrawals in cruzados from the
Special Account, supported by statements of expenditure and other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date
of expenditure. The Central Bank would send the corresponding withdrawal
applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
IV.  PROJEC  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEETATION
A. Organization and Management
Federal and Regional Levels
4.01      The Interministerial Commission for the Northeast Rural Development
Program (IC), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior,
and comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture,
Planning, Land Reform, Finance, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall



- 22 -
policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP. SUDENE's Directorate for
the Program of Support to Small Farmers, as regional coordinator of the NRDP,
receives policy backing for its work from a Regiornal Rural Development
Council (RDC), an organ now being established, which would include
representatives of all ten Northeastern states.
State and Local Levels
4.02      At the state level, a State Development Council (SDC) would meet on
a quarterly basis to set policy guidelines and provide overall orientation
for the project.  The SDC would be chaired by the State Secretary of
Planning, and in his absence by the Secretary of Agriculture.  Members of the
Council would include the State Secretaries of Finance and Water Resources,
as welU as the President of the Banco do Estado da Bahia, regional directors
of the National Department of Drought Works (DNOCS) and the Sao Francisco
River Valley Development Company (CODEVASF), and representatives from
SUDENE. The SDC would also represent project interests at the federal and
regional levels. The day-to-day work would be carried out by CAR's Executive
Secretariat whose director would be an ex-officio member of the SDC. The
effective integration of executing agencies into project activities would be
performed by the State Technical Commission (STC) composed of CAR's Technical
Coordination Division and all executing agencies operating within the
project. Chaired by CAR's executive director, the STC would meet monthly to
plan, supervise and evaluate the implementation of the annual work programs
and ensure their compatibility with overall project goals and methodology.
CAR's Administrative Council, composed of the State Secretary of Planning,
two additional State Secretaries, and a representative of the State
Attorney's office would supervise CAR's functions; a Fiscal Council would
supervise CAR's financial operations (Chart 1).
4.03      CAR has its own budget, salary structure and administrative and
personnel procedures. Under the project it would be responsible for:
(a) consolidating annual operating plans drafted by executing agencies;
(b) ,upervising project performance and advising the SDC on institutional or
technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement
requests; (d) ongoing project evaluation; (e) implementing training courses
on project objectives and strategy and administering all training activities;
and (f) implementing the community development component.
4.04      In order to adjust CAR's administration to the needs of the
Northeast program, its headquarters in Salvador would be organized into seven
centralized services (Legal, Administrative, Planning and Budgeting,
Training, Information, Monitoring and Evaluation and Technical Services) and
six project units, one for each region, staffed with a coordinator and four
to five project officers. At field level, with the enlargement of the
project area, CAR would reorganize the numbers and distribution of its field
offices and would maintain a total of 19 subregional offices, each one
staffed with one subregional coordinator and 4 to 15 technical support
staff. This field staff would be responsible for supervision, ongoing
evaluation and coordination of subregional Technical Councils (to be
comprised of CAR field staff and representatives from each executing



-23-
agency). These councils would provide a regular forum for discussion of
problems encountered during project implementation and improve project
coordination. In addition, the subregional coordinator would participate in
municipal council meetings during discussions of local project requests under
the SSRC component (para. 2.37). As a condition for loan effectiveness, the
Bank would be provided with evidence that the reorganization of CARL's
addmiistration had been carried out as specified.
Unification of Rural Special Programs
4.05      Improved efficiency in rural development administration and the
unification of Northeast rural special programs are central elements in
project strategy. Accordingly, as a condition for loan effectiveness, the
Bank would be provided with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing
and adm-instration of all current rural special programs in Bahia are unified
and consolidated within CAR at the state level.
B. Annual Planning and Budgeting
4.06      Review, refinement, and adjustment of the targets and costs
established initially at appraisal would be carried out through successive
annual planning and budgeting processes. By July of each year, the State
would provide preliminary estimates of funding requirements for the next
project fiscal year to SUDENE for discussions in the RDC and the IC.  Once
the Federal Government has established the overall funding availability for
the NRDP for the next year, allocations per state would be established hy
SUDENE in consultation with the RDC and communicated formally to the State.
Subsequently, each executing agency, under guidance from CAR, would prepare a
detailed annual operating plan, with proposed activities and expenditures.
CAR would then consolidate the plans, ensure internal consistency and forward
them for approval to SDC and SUDENE. SUDENE would consolidate the state
plans into a regional operating plan, which would be presented to the IC.
This plan would serve as the basis for the portaria (administrative
regulation) signed by the ministers, legally establishing budget allocations
for the State. Project funding procedures would be those established for the
NRDP. During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) funding procedures would not be changed without the Bank's approval; (b)
the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for comment
prior to approval; (c) the portaria, the final regional operating plan and
the Bahia state operating plan would be sent to the Bank not later than April
1 of each year; and (d) any proposed changes in the planning and budgeting
process would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to enactment.
C. Operating Agreements
4.07      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, a series of
written agreements (convenios) among project coordinating and executing
agencies would be entered into. These agreements include: (a) agreement
between SUDENE and federal research agencies (CPATSA, CNPA, CNPMF and CNPC);
(b) agreements between CAR and federal agencies; (c) agreements among
executing agencies, with the participation of CAR, When more than one agency
is involved in executing a project activity (e.g., irrigation); and
(d) agreements between CAR or an executing agency and involved municipalities



- 24 -
or groups prior to the construction of civil works or initiation of a
community subproject. These agreements would outline the respective
obligations and responsibilities of each party, including execution
guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for inter-agency
collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria
(Annex 8). During negotiations, the Federal and State Government provided
assurances that they would, not later than six months after loan signature,
enter into and maintain all necessary agreements during the project
implementation period.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.08      Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements and to provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. CAR would receive
fron executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial
indicators. These indicators have been selected for the most part from
information already routinely collected by the executing agencies. CAR's
preseat monitoring unit would be substantially strengthened to coordinate
monitoring and ongoing evaluation. State evaluation activities under the
proposed project would be comprised of: (a) ongoing evaluation and special
studies; (b) mid-term evaluation; and (c) post-project evaluation. Ongoing
evaluation would consist of short-term studies of specific activities and
implementation problems, such as an annual review of community development
activities. Annual crop surveys to measure production and productivity
levels among a small number of beneficiary and non-beneficiary farmers wo-uld
also be part of ongoing evaluation. Regional reports would be distributed to
regional and state executing agencies for discussion and analysis. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that it would: (a)
send to the Bank quarterly progress reports of the project not later than
three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; (b) maintain
CAR's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit fully staffed under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that terms of reference for the mid-term
and post-project evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank.
E. Accounts and Auditing
4.09      Each of the participating agencies would maintain a separate
account of its project expenditures, to be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audit report would be provided to the
Bark within six months following the end of the project's fiscal year.  The
audit report would convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of procedures
used for the preparation and verification of statements of expenditures and
their accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance with compliance with
legal agreements, and the standard of record-keeping and internal controls.
The Special Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that project accounts would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank.



- 25 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
A.  Production
5.01      At fufL development by Year 18, the annual value of incremental
production generated by the project is estimated at US$228 million (in
November 1984 farm-gate prices), including US$168 million for the major
crops and US$60 million for livestock products-beef, goat meat and pork
(Annex 9).
5.02      The impact of the project on agricultural production would be
achieved through a combination of increased productivity and an expansion of
cultivated areas. Yield increases for the major. crops, through improved soil
management and cultivation practices, have been estimated based on observed
results where such practices have already been employed and projected
increases, at less than 35% above current yields, appear attainable
(Annex 10). Increased use of animal traction would result in increases in
the area devoted to cassava, cotton, maize and beans. Some double cropping
would occur on newly irrigated lands. Following a general trend in the
Northeast, grain sorghum would be introduced to substitute maize in the more
drought-prone areas. In addition farmers, keen to expand on their livestock,
would need to provide for additional and improved pasture. With widespread
slash and burn still in practice, land would not be a limiting factor in this
development, particularly since soil maps indicate that about 70% of
available land in the project area is suitable for sustained cropping. From
1972 to 1982 cropland in Bahia had grown at an annual rate of about 7%
(para. 1.14). Altogether project activities are expected to convert an
estimated 390,000 ha of native bush and grassland into about 180,000 ha of
croplands and 210,000 ha improved pasture; the latter one including the
planting of about 30,000 ha drought-resistant algaroba and forage cactus.
The projected increase in the cropped area would represent about 30% of the
historical growth of cropland in the project area. The planting of algaroba
trees not only would contribute to valuable animal fodder during a severe
drought, but would also provide for fuelwood and small timber.
B. Marketing
5.03      Marketed produce of traditional food crops would be consumed in the
larger cities of Bahia, such as Salvador, Feira da Santana, Alagoinhas,
Juazeiro and Paulo Afonso; however, incremental production is not expected to
lead to marketing constraints.   A growing industrial market for cassava,
both for animal feed and energy production, is developing. Incremental
cotton production would be marketed through existing channels for processing
both in Bahia and in neighboring states, and the small incremental production
of sisal would be processed by existing facilities in Salvador. Maize and
sorghum as feed are in demand because Bahia's livestock industry is
expanding. Resulting increases in meat production would be readily absorbed
in urban areas within the State. Similarly, the incremental production of
fruits and vegetables would be channelled to Salvador and other urban areas
of Bahia.
5.04      Private intermediaries are the main channel Cor the marketing of
the project's food crops and frequently take advantagp. of the weak bargaining



- 26 -
position of small farmers, particularly in the more remote areas. The
project vould attempt to increase competition by improving market information
and facilitating the entry of new intermediaries including EBAL. Project
investments in research and extension, training in post-harvest techniques
and marketing, improvements in the marketing information and commercial
orientation service should strengthen small farmers' competitive position.
C. Illustrative Farm Models
5.05      The effects of the project on agricultural production and
profitability are illustrated by 13 rainfed and 3 irrigation models
reflecting different farm sizes, ecological zones, cropping patterns, and
livestock activities.  In r-gard to new crops, improved technologies and
expanded livestock activities, changes recommended on the farm level are
modest and can reasonably be expected to be carried out. The total number of
farmers to benefit from extension at full development is 170,000, of which
about 25Z are expected to adopt improved practices and increase production.
Characteristics of the farm models are summarized in Annex 11, and additional
details are provided in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers (Annex 14).
5.06      Estimated financial rates of return for the models range from about
22Z to 65%. Relatively high rates of return (in some cases above 50X)
reflect the low level of production and the relatively low cost and rapid
benefits of investment packages and resulting technology improvements. The
introduction of crops better able to resist drought (e.g., short-cycle
varieties of maize and grain sorghum) would improve yield reliability. The
increased use of animal traction would put more land under cultivation,
provide more timely field operations, and improve weed control. Fertilizers
would contribute to increased yields where rainfall was not a major limiting
factor. Although cropping patterns are not expected to change dramatically,
farmers, particularly those benefiting from irrigation, would increase the
proportion of more profitable cash crops. Expansion of beef, goat and sheep
herda would occur on most rLinfed farms.  Pig production would also
increase.
D. Farm Income
5.07      The estimated weighted average annual family income of those
project beneficiaries using the credit component at full development is shown
in the following table:
Table 5.1 Net Family Farm Benefits
Farm      Irrig.     Without  With
Type of Farm    Size (ha) Area (ha)  Project Project  Incremental
US$ - _ 
Rainfed            5-10        n.a.       410     1,116        172
Rainfed           23-28        n.a.       474     3,171        569
Priv. irrigated      10         3         420     1,403        234
Priv. Irrigated      23         1         771     1,850        140
Pub. Irrigated        5         3         776     3,135       304



- 27 -
The estimated increases in farm benefits reflect improved farm production
resulting from both increased yields and cropped area and a diversified
enterprise mix. Livestock assets would represent a ready source of cash
income. Because current sources of supplemental income, such as off-farm
work, have not been taken into account, the difference between present
incomes and projected incomes may be overstated. But an important
contribution of the project is the greater security of income through
adoption of simple technology which would improve production of subsistence
crops even in years of moderate drought. Despite a significant increase in
on-farm income, the small, less-than-10 ha rainfed farm families, would
remain below the relative poverty level and would have to supplement their
farm incomes through outside sources, particularly in years of severe
drought.
5.08      Over 75% of project farmers are located in regions vulnerable to
recurring droughts. If a drought were to occur in the project's first three
years both project and non-project farm families would require governmental
assistance or outside income in order to survive. At least some project
farmers would have to liquidate their investments and either sell or consume
their breeding stock. However, if a drought were to occur after the
investment became fully productive, project farms would be much better off
than non-project ones. Investments made earlier in livestock enterprises and
the adoption of drought-resistant crops and cropping techniques would greatly
increase farm families' ability to survive a severe drought.
E. Fiscal Impact
5.09      Fiscal revenues would be obtained from the taxation of the marketed
incremental project production. At full development, the incremental
agricultural production would annually generate about US$29.0 million in
value-added tax and US$5.0 million for the Social Security Tax Fund. The
project investment cost per benefiting family would average US$2,100.
Partial direct cost recovery does exist, particularly for operation and
maintenance costs; however, it is not government policy to obtain full cost
recovery on rural programs for low-income families.   User charges and
increased revenues would be expected to cover recurrent costs related to
improvements in the retail food distribution network, increased fingerling
production, and comunity water supply systems. In addition, communities
would be expected to pay for part of community subproject investment costs
through contributions in labor or materials. Current legislation allows CERB
to recover 100% of annual operation and maintenance costs and public
investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastructure over a 50-year
period. The initial investment is revalued, but without charging interest.
Further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects is given in the
Staff Appraisal Report on the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation
Project (Report No. 5975-BR).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Employment
6.01      The project area has traditionally supplied labor to other areas in
Bahia and Brazil. The expansion of agricultural activities would create new



-28 -
on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to some 30,000 man-years annually
at full development. This demand would be met mainly through family labor,
although increases in hired labor for irrigation areas would also occur.
Community subprojects and increased commercial activities would also generate
demand for local employment. Aside from a slight increase in the demand for
skilled labor because of community activities, most of the jobs would be for
unskilled and semi-skilled labor, thereby serving to decrease unemployment
and underemployment levels among project beneficiary families.
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.02      The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
17% with a 20-year analysis.  Details of the cost and benefit streams used in
the economic analysis are given in Annex 12; further details are available in
the Supplementary Staff Working Papers (Annex 14). The cost stream for the
economic benefits is based on four elements: (a) all Bahia project costs,
except those related to the fund for unidentified irrigation studies and
subprojects, the water supply systems, social forestry, the initial stock for
newly constructed retail shops and the community development conponent, or
73Z of total state project costs; (b) 10% of regional administration costs
financed under the Northeast Rural Development Project - Sergipe (Loan
2523-BR); (c) 27% of regional research costs (to be financed under both the
Northeast Rural Development Project - Sergipe and the proposed project) based
on the proportion of Bahia's rural population within the Northeast's total
rural population; and (d) recurrent state costs on a declining basis from
Years 9 to 12 and at constant Year 12 costs during Years 13 to 20 to sustain
the project following the investment period.
6.03      The evaluation of incremental net benefits Included two elements:
(a) benefits from farmers expected to use investment credit (4,550 irrigated
farms and 25,150 rainfed farms) or about 37% of the 80,000 farmers that are
incremental to ongoing projects; and (b) an estimate for the incremental
benefits accruing to the remaining rainfed farmers who would be reached by
the extension service but would not use credit. As a result, incremental
benefits for an equivalent 12,600 farmers (25% of the remaining rainfed
farmers) were added to the benefit stream. No benefits were included from
the fish and goat subcomponents because they are too small to have any
substantial weight when compared to the on-farm benefits.
6.04      Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into account
international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing and handling
costs. Price trends were projected according to those estimated by the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. The main imported goods
are fertilizers and rice; the main exports are cotton and castor bean oil.
Beans, sorghum, cassava and goat meat were valued at financial farm-gate
prices. All other outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted
downward by the standard conversion factor of 0.83 to account for domestic
price distortions (Annex 13).
6.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the assumptions
underlying the project's stream of costs and benefits, sensitivity tests were
made. Project benefits would need to fall by 37% or project costs increase
by 58% before the project's estimated rate of return falls below the



- 29 -
opportunity cost of capital (11Z). A lag of three years in achieving project
benefits, such as might occur during a severe drought, would only lower the
rate of return to 12%, but a 50% drop in benefits would lower the rate to
7%. However, a sustained 50% drop in benefits for the entire 20-year period
of analysis is not likely.
6.06      Unquantified project benefits include improved marketing, water
supply and community activities. Improved marketing services and facilities
would provide production incentives, in addition to benefiting a large number
of rural consumers. Rural water supply systems would ensure safe drinking
supplies for many area residents. Community activities would provide needed
employment opportunities, services, and infrastructure and would encourage
communities to become more active and autonomous in the development process.
C. Environmental Impact
6.07      The project would have a significant beneficial impact on the
project area environment. The encouragement of practices, such as contour
farming, rotation of crops with pasture including legumes, and the
establishment of farm woodlots, would contribute to environmental protection,
although their adoption would be slow. Although the project would promote
use of fertilizers, the levels of application would be so low in relation to
plant needs that there would be no significant run-off losses. The envisaged
herbicide use under the project would be carefully monitored by EMATER-BA
extension agents. Increased awareness of the need to protect and manage the
environment more carefully is growing among farmers because of recent drought
conditions.
D. Project Risks
6.08      Although simpler in design than previous integrated rural
development projects in Northeast Brazil, the proposed project still depends
on considerable inter-institutional cooperation. Consequently, institutional
analysis was an important part of project preparation. Weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve institutional effectiveness,
particularly in the areas of watpr resource development and state and local
coordination. In addition, all of the agencies have some experience in
working with the target group through previous integrated rural development
projects. More importantly, the project's emphasis on community
participation would increase both the level of demand on and accountability
of the executing agencies, thus fostering a more efficient institutional
environment. Improved monitoring, ongoing evaluation and increased technical
assistance should also help decrease management risks.
6.09      The proposed project does not include land tenure, health, and
education activities. All of these activities are essential for sustained,
self-supporting rural development in the Northeast. Parallel sectoral
projects for health and education are currently under preparation with Bank
assistance; a regional Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) has
begun implementation. The success of those projects would contribute
substantially toward achieving project objectives of increased incomes,
employment, and standards of living, particularly in the medium and long
term, and planning of all the projects has taken place in a coordinated
fashion. Nonetheless, implementation of most of the activities and expected



- 30 -
benefits under the proposed project are not directly dependent on the pace of
implementation of the sectoral projects in the short term.
6.10      Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding and rural credit have
posed serious problems for Bank-assisted Northeast rural development projects
in the past. Similar delays and shortfalls under the proposed project could
decrease its impact but recent changes in funding channels and procedures,
the merging of the rural special programs, and the addition of a new source
of counterpart funding are expected to improve the funding situation. The
regional scope of the NRDP, of which the project is a part, and the broad
support which the program enjoys among government and local leaders, should
help to secure adequate funding. Overall, the risks associated with this
project are acceptable in view of the expected benefits to low-income farm
families and the important institutional-building aspects of the project.
6.11      Recurring drought conditions in Bahia's semi-arid areas present
considerable risks to small farmers and to expected benefits under the
proposed project. A sustained, multiyear drought, similar to the one from
1978 to 1983, could substantially reduce the project's productive impact.
Decreasing drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced overall
project design, particularly through increasing the focus on water resource
development and small farm technology generation and diffusion. The project
should help increase farmers' capacity to adapt to erratic, and often
adverse, climatic conditions.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that:
(a)   for rural credit, the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions,
reporting provisions, and credit priorities would be applied as
outlined in paras. 2.26-2.28;
(b)   at least 300,000 ha by March 31, 1987, and an additional 370,000 ha
by March 31, 1989, would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries in the priority areas (para. 2.41);
(c)   under the guidance of EMBRAPA, a written agreement would be signed
by the three national production centers (CNPA, CNPMF, CNP),
SUDENE and CPATSA outlining their respective obligations and
responsibilities not later than 6 months after loan signature
(para. 2.43);
(d)   procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;
(e)   (i) funding procedures would not be changed without the Bank's
approval; (ii) the regional operating plan would be sent each year
to the Bank for comment prior to approval; (iii) the portaria, the
final regional operating plan and the Bahia state operating plan



- 31 -
would be sent to the Bank not later than April 1 of each year; and
(iv) any proposed changes in the planning and budgeting process
would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to enactment
(para. 4.06).
(f)   it would enter into and maintain all necessary agreements no later
than six months after loan signature (para. 4.07); and
(g)   project accounts would be maintained and audited annually according
to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09).
7.02      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a)   (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with federal legislation; and (ii) the
agreed-upon measures for strengthening CERB's Irrigation Department
would be carried out as specified within 6 months after loan
signature (para. 2.13);
(b)   CERB would apply water charges covering full operation and
maintenance costs starting in 1989 (para. 2.16);
(c)   (i) the community development fund would be established and
maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(:ii) no funds would be released prior to a written agreement
between CAR and theb group or municipality; and (iii) not later than
December 31, 1988 the Bank and CAR would review performance of the
grants for the economic subprojects to establish the feasibility of
carrying out further community fund operations on a -oan basis
(para. 2.38);
Cd)  CAR would be staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 2.39);
(e)  at least 300,000 ha by March 31, 1987, and an additional 370,000 ha
by March 31, 1989, would be available for redistr'bu:'on to project
beneficiaries in the priority areas (para. 2.41);
(f) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;
(g)   it would enter into and maintain all necessary agreements referred
to in paras. 2.30, 2.32, 2.33, and 4.07 no later than six months
after loan signature (para. 4.07);
(h)   quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than three months after the respective quarter; terms of reference
for the mid-term and post-project evaluation studies would be sent
to the Bank for review and approval, and the CAR's Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be maintained fully staffed under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.08); and



- 32 -
(i) project accounts would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09).
7.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) receipt of evidence
that the reorganization of CAR's administration, which has been carried out
as specified (para. 4.04); and (b) that planning, budgeting, staffing and
administration of all current rural special programs in Bahia have been
unified and consolidated within CAr, at the State level (para. 4.05).
7.04      Conditions of disbursement for any public irrigation scheme would
be (a) receipt of final design for Itapera irrigation subproject and (b)
receipt of proof of land acquisition and approval of feasibility studies,
resettlement plans, satisfactory operation and maintenance plans and complete
final designs for public irrigation subprojects up to about 2,500 ha prior to
initiating construction (para. 2.13).
7.05      The amount of US4.0 million equivalent, set aside to finance the
construction of about ten additional ptblic irrigation schemes up to
2,500 ha, would be cancelled if such construction is not justified by
prerequisite feasibility studies and if the funds are not committed to a
specific project approved by the Bank by June 30, 1988 (para. 2.13).
7.06      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$171.0 million equivalent with a term of 15
years including a 3-year grace period.
September 26, 1986



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPfENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Structure of Land Holdings
(Farmers with Less than 100 ha)
Total No.
No. of Farms              of Farms         Total No.
Project Region      Less 10 ha      10-50 ha    50-100      Less 100 ha      of Farms
Nordeste              88,563         33,883       5,930        128,376       133,813
Paraguacu             90,248         35,233       6,850        132,331       139,919
Sobradinbo            16,196          5,488         688         22,372        23,037
Irece                 24,013         14,697      3,545          42,255        46,185
Serra Geral           37,470         33,199      8,093          78,762        85,419
Oeste                 23,537         19,788      5,193          48,518        55,792
Project Area         280,027        142,288     30,299         452,614       484,165
Bahia                 347,311        195,284      45,120       587,715       637,225
Source: FIBGE-CAR, Northeast Program for Support of Small Farmers,
Volume I - Project Background Analysis (Diagnosis) 1984



-34                                    ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAICA
Evolution of Bahia Agricultural Production
Major Crops 1972 and 1982 1/
Average 1970-1972                      Average 1980-1982
Area       Yield       Production       Area      Yield       Production
Crop                   (ha)       (kg/ha)       (tons)         (ha)      (kg/ha)       (tons)
Seed cotton          156,697         574          89,944       73,970       823           60,877
Rice (paddy)           39,150      1,413          55,318       59,251       888           52,615
Beaaq                246,277         739         181,998      586,700       405          237,613
Tobacco               43,708         682          29,809       52,403       797           41,765
Castor beans         142,515       1,088         155,056      320,628       4.9          140,756
Cassava (tons)       181,705          16.3     2,961,791      337,667        14.7      4,963,700
Maize                297,359         864         256,918      568,633       461          262,140
Oranges (fruits)       7,204      68,400     492,754,000       11,785    76,000      895,660,000
Sisal                155,482       1,092         169,786      169,167       670          113,342
Coconuts (fruits)     42,974       2,952     126,860,000       34,133     3,670      125,268,000
Sugarcane (tons)      81,621          45.2     3,689,270       79,182        35.7      2,826,800
Bananas (stems)       17,596       1,245      21,907,000       54,540     1,385       75,538,000
TOTAL            1,412,288       n.a.           n.a.      2,348,059      n.a.          n.a.
Source: FIBGE:  1973-82; Producao Agricola Municipal.
FIBGE:  1983; Levantamento Sistematico da Producao Agricola (Dez. 83).
FIBGE:  1984; Levantamento Sistematico da Producao Agricola (Out. 84).
1/ For oranges, sisal, coconuts, sugarcane and bauanas, the comparison year periods are
1973-75 and 1982-84 respectively.



- 35 -
A-   3
1q =pof 2
BRAZIL
NO-ES MEAL DEEM             -RGR
_ LM  IE          MU= - BAHIA
1. Project Priay Am and   P           l
Total            Iad              Rur               F4f
Nam of Begau Nb. of                                        Area           1qi]atix            ba. of
and SubregILo                        1-i-Waldtes1           a               1980            Benaefaidn  I/
N ;FE_ME                                    46             76 636           781,693               5D,000
CIEO                                       72                              356,18X              23,440
SE   DD m IB1                              15             14,408           221,144               16,470
JIAIP                                       6             23,402           120,991                5,56
EALiW AMRISO                                8             15,885            83,374                4,530
PARAGM2U                                    61             62,079           725,751               48,090
EIA JE SANIAI                              15              7,817           232,497               15,490
13              9,12            137,619               15,M0O
IMOMLMA                                   11              19,391           127,049               3,600
NM  NMD O                                   7              5,992            79,242                3,900
SEAU&                                      15             19,794           149,344               9,900
S -ADIZ                                     5              49,313           113,952              13,000
S-    SEJ                                   1             13,496            22,964                1,500
SCRADI   (B)                                1              9,268            28,343               1,5)0
XW-EnE                                      1              9,603            21,802               2,100
R3WA1)D                                    2              16,946           40,843                7,90
MR=E                                       24              38,790          322,230               21,500
3REKE                                      15             14,179           136,171               13,240
JACOBIM                                    9              24,611           186,059               8,260
SERA GRL                                    19             29,849          257,608               29,910
CAE=                                        6              8,058           103,345               10,030
OLEIA  DOS EEJlInE                         7              13,799           79,059                9,520
HWCAAS                                      6              7,992            75,204               10,360
OESIE                                       6               8,950           88,257                7,500
SAN33. MARTA DA VJlKIA                     6               8,950           88,257                7,500
5UDL                                       161            265,617         2,289,491              170,000
1/ Estlmted v    eof beieficarier at full development of the State Rual  elapent Pix.



-36 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
2. List of Municipalities Project Area
NORDESTE REGION               10. 1chu                       5. Correatina (Parte)
1. Antas                     11. Ipecaeta                   6. Jaborandi
2. Biritinga                 12. Santo Estevao
3. Cicero Dantas             13. Tanquinho                 IRECE REGION
4. Cipo                      14. Ipira                      1.  arra do Mendes
5. Itapicuru                 15. Riachao do Jacuipe         2. Canarana
6. Nova Soure                16. Santa Terezinha            3. Central
7. OLindina                  17. Serra Preta                4. Ibitita
B. Paripiranga               18. Iacu                       5. Jussara
9. Ribeira do Amparo         19. Itaberaba                  6. Presidente Dutra
10. Tucano                    20. Hllagres           -       7. Ulbai
11. Quijingue                 21. Boa Vista do Tupim         8. Irece
12. Araci                     22. Ibiquera                   9. Ibipeba
13. Conceicao do Coite        23. Irauaia                   10. Gentio do Ouro
14. Cansancao                 24. Itaete                    11. Campo Formoso
15. Retirolandia              25. Lajedinho                 12. Jacobina
16. Santa Luz                 26. Marcionilio Souza         13. Niquel Calmno
17. Senbor do Bonfia          27. Rui Barbosa               14. Nirangaba
18. Teofilandia               28. Planaltino                15. Morro do Chapeu
19. Valente                   29. Maraeas                   16. Serrolandia
20. Itiuba                    30. Abairs                    17. Varzea do Poco
21. Monte Santo               31. Boninal                   18. America Dourada
22. QueIjadas                 32. Palueiras                 19. Joao Dourado
23. Antonio Goncalves         33. Piata                     20. !apao
24. Caldeirao Grande          34. Barra da Estiva           21. Sao Gabriel
25. Pindobacu                 35. Ibicoara                  22. Capim Grosso
26. Saude                     36. Mucuge                    23. Varzea Nova
27. Caem                      37. Scabra                    24. Barro Alto
28. Jaguarari                 38. Andarai
29. Juazerio                  39. Cafarnaum                 SERRA GERAL REGION
30. Uaua                      40. Iraquara                   1. Candiba
31. Coronel Joao Ss           41. Santo Soares               2. Guanambi
32. Gloria                    42. Utinga                     3. Licinio do Alneida
33. Jeremoabo                 43. wagner                     4. Pindai
34. Paulo Afooso              44. Lencois                    5. Caetite
35. Pedro Alexandre           45. Baixa Grande               6. Livraaento de
36. Santa Brigida             46. Macajuba                        Brusado
37. Curaca                    47. Mairi                      7. Agua Quente
38. Rodelas                   48. HMndo Novo                 8. Botupora
39. Abare                     49. Piritiba                   9. Macaubas
40. Chorrocho                 50. Tapiramuta                10. Paramirim
41. Macurure                  51. Amelia Rodrigues          11. Rio do Pires
42. Fatima                    52. Santo Amaro               12. Boquira
43. Heliopolis                53. Teodoro Sampaio           13. Ibipitanga
44. Nordestina                54. Terra Nova                14. Ibitisra
45. Filadelfia                55. Pe da Serra               15. Brotas de Macaubas
46. Canudos                   56. Gaviao                    16. Ipupiara
57. Capela do Alto Alegre    17. Norpara
PARAGUACU REGION              58. Barrocas                  18. Oliveira dos
1. Lamarao                   59. Rafael Jambeiro                Brejinhos
2. Santa Barbara             60. Pintadas                  19. Tanque Novo
3. Sancanopolis              61. Varzea da Roca
4. Serrinha                                                SOBRADINHO REGION
5. Anguera                   OESTE REGION                   1. Sento Se
6. Antonio Cardoso            1. Cocos (Parte)              2. Xique-Xlque
7. Candeal                    2. Canapolis                  3. Remanso
8. Castro Alves               3. Coribe                     4. Casa Nova
9. Feira de Santana           4. Santa Maria                5. Pilao Areado
da Vitoria



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Marketing Services
Introduction
1.        The objectives of the marketing component of the proposed project
are designed to (a) increase farmers' knowledge of markets and prices,
(b) expand the People's Food Basket Program throughout the project area;
(c) improve the timely provision of agricultural inputs (especially seeds);
and td) complement a crop purchasing program financed by the Government for
farmers living ir. remote areas.
2.        The financing of these activities can be justified on several
grounds; namely (i) improvements of existing marketing arrangements on State
level are part of the overall Regional Development Program agreed between the
Government and the Bank, (ii) proposed activities are expected to have a
direct impact on rural poverty (the target group in Bahia consists of about
660,000 rural families with income levels below the poverty levei of about
US$300 per capita), (iii) proposed activities are in support of and are
complementary to a marketing strategy clearly defined by the State
Government, and (iv) the expansion of an existing network of rural retail
shops to provide agricultural Inputs is expected to improve the general
provision of agricultural services.
Marketing and Information System
3.        Currently, the majority of farmers are little informed about market
conditions and are often at the mercy of wholesalers who pay minimum prices
for their crops. Although crop prices are largely determined by supply and
demand, farmers are often unable to obtain relevant market information. The
projecr would finance the construction of four service centers (in addition
to two centers already existing) which would provide farmers with a
commercial service :ncluding regional prices, storage facilities, transport
and selling options. The commercial service of these centers would be
managed by CAR staff (one coordinator- for each center). The centers, which
would be constructed by CEASA (Central Marketing Company), would also be used
as food distribution points and as packaging plants for EBAL's rural shops
(see para. 5 below). The participation of CAR staff in the management of the
information system would not only ensure continuity and coordination of all
marketing activities in the project area, but also would ensure that the
information provided would be relevant to the actual needs and requirements
of the sma1l rural producer.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Expansion of Rural Retail Shops
(The People's Food Basket Program)
4.        The State of Bahia has confronted rural poverty by demonstrating
the commercial viability of marketing basic food at affordable prices. In
undertaking this program the State has not attempted to "nationalize- food
distribution, but rather stimulate competition in a market partially
controlled by private sector monopolies. The State distributes and markets
basic food in urban and rural areas for lower-income groups through a program
called 'The People's Food Basket" ("Cesta do Povo-). This program warrants
special attention as it is unique in Brazil and highly successful. The
program was initiated in 1979 by the Government of Bahia to provide food at
affordable prices to lower income groups. It has had a direct impact on
rural poverty by reducing the cost of food and consequently augmenting the
income of the rural poor. The program is being carried out by EBAL, the
State Food Company which operates some 295 retail markets throughout the
state. Food is distributed from strategically located wholesale market
service centers. EBAL has managed to retail basic food at 25%-30X below
market prices (thus encouraging other retailers and distributors to become
more efficient and to lower prices) and to cover capital investment costs and
operating costs. It has done so through bulk purchasing of rice, beans,
flour sugar, oil, etc., and cost-effective distribution and retailing
systems. Each month EBAL markets about 23 million kg. of consumer goods and
its rural retail shops sell an average of 50 different items of food and
cleaning and household materials. EBAL is not tax exempt and in 1984 was
reputed to have paid about CR$ 11,560 million (about US$2.3 million) in taxes
and contributions.
5.        To expand the 'People's Food Basket" the Government of Bahia would
finance the construction of 59 shops, totaling US$0.93 million, in addition
to the 78 shops currently operating in the project area. At full development
this would ensure that each municipality would have one EBAL retail shop.
The project would finance only initial stock for the newly constructed shops
and as a pilot scheme a total of 12 mobile shops which would operate in
remote areas. This development must be seen as vital to attract low-income
farm families to the program and to the future provision of agricultural
inputs outlined in para. 6 below.
Marketing of Agricultural Inputs
6.        The marketing and timely provision of some critical agricultural
inputs, especially seed, are the most difficult problems facing
farmers throughout the State. EBAL would purchase improved seed from the
State Company for Seed Production, Sementes Formoso S/A, and is expected to
market about 1,200 tons annually. To market these inputs, the project would
finance the construction of annexes to all 137 EBAL's rural retail shops in
the project area. As part of their normal duties, EBAL retail shops would
start to sell also small agricultural implements and fertilizer if
technically and commerically viable. Thus, the rural retail shops with their
annexes would also be used as focal points for additional market infox nation



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
and extension, and at a later stage would serve as nuclei for more complex
agricultural service centers at the municipality level.
Crop Purchasing Program
7.        Helping farmers to obtain a  fair price" for their small surplus
has always been a problem because the two Government schemes designed to
reach them have failed. A minimum price scheme had limited success because
it was export oriented and because Government marketing institutions have
been reluctant to deal with a large number of individual small farmers. A
second scheme-the advance purchase scheme (compra anteepada de producao)
under the supervision of COBAL-has had little success in Bahia because there
were no financial resources and it was difficult to reach dispersed
cowmmnities due to high transport costs and lack of storage facilities.
8.        The Government would finance a crop purchasing program, totaling
about US$3 million over the life of the project, for small farmers living in
remote areas with no marketing outlets. To complement the State program the
project would finance the constructior of 12 new storage facilities and the
repair of 9 existing storage facilities. CAR would carry out the crop
purchasing program in cooperation with EBAL staff and EBAL would carry out
the marketing. It is estimated that the program would purchase aproximately
400 tons of rice, 5,600 tons of maize, 4,300 tons of beans, 72,000 tons of
cassava, and 380 tons of castor beans.



- 40 -
AMIEX 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Guidelines for Selection of Local Development Projects (LDPs)
In order to ensure that only priority LDPs are selected and that these become
self-sustaining, the following guidelines would be established:
(a) -  all LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and
woulc! include objectives, justification, benefits expected,
method of implementation and group participation eithce in cash
or kind;
(b) - group participation in the financing would amount to 15Z for
productive LDPs and for non-productive LDPs; however, since
socio-economic conditions vary considerably throughout the
State, flexibility of group contribution would be maintained;
(c) -  the fund would not finance schemes funded by other project
components nor the construction of schools, health posts, roads
or rural electrification;
sd) - the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs;
Se) - the group or association would be solely responsible for the
management and administration of the LDPs and;
(f)  -  the LDPs would be self sustaining and should benefit the whole
community.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT - BAHIA
1. Annual Cost Phailsn of Protect Actvities
(Us$ '000)
Bass Costs                                      Total
Implementing Year                          1         2         3         4         5        6          7         8
A. WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLIES                       2,023     3,472     1,210         -         -          -         -         -     6,705
IRRIGATION                                     607      2,457     3,133     3,109     3,871     3,564      2,325     2,102    21,167
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT                           206        53        54        56        56         56       56         56       591
Sub-Total WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT            2,836     5,981     4,397     3,165      3,927     3,619     2,380     2,157    28,463
8, AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
______________________
RESEARCH                                      3,400     2,463     2,398     3,242     3,468     3,401      3,428     3,268    25,069
SEED PRODUCTION                                 263       458       263       262       365       342        342       342     2,638
_________ - ------- -------- - ------- - --____--   ------ ---_-_--- --_----- - -----
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                  3,663     2,921     2,660     3,504     3,833      3,744     3,770     3,611    27,707
C. RURAL EXTENSION
EXTENSION                                     2,351     6,609     7,587     7,757     7,728    12,543    12,395    11,582    68,553
GOAT PRODUCTION                                  40        45        52        61        73         -          -         -       271
SOCIAL FORESTRY                                 101       156       394       483       557        758       648       648     3,744
Sub-Total RURAL EXTENSION                        2,492     6,810     8,033     8,301     8,359    13,301    13,042    12,230    72,568
D. CREDIT                                        2,088     6,119     9,699    11,652    12,958    12,746    10,918      8,620    74,800
E. MHRKF.TING                                      479     2,745     2,852     2,048     2,312        645       297       297    11,675
F. SUPPORT TO SHALL COMMUNITIES                  2,100     4,063     4,369     6,149     6,433     6,464      6,352     6,352    42,282
G. ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINING
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                        2,645     3,114     3,280     3,057     3,535     4,982      5,174    4,923    30,709
TRAINING                                        827       993       742       589       591       455        436       371     5,004
Sub-Total ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINING            3,472     4,107     4,022     3,645     4,126      5,438     5,610     5,294    35,713
It. REGIONAL RESEARCH                              844     1,071     1,156      1,045     1,018       976       972       967     8,049                 Pu
Total BASELINE COSTS                              17,976    33,816    37,188    39,510    42,966    46,933    43,341    39,527   301,257
Physlcal Contirgenctes                            491       903       655       519       594       347        165       121     3,794
Price Contingencien                              - 37       732     2,430     4,178     6,838    10,961    12,520    13,527    51,149                  0
Total PROJECT COSTS                               18,430    35,451    40,272    44,207    50,398    58,242    56,026    53,175   356,200                   t
......... .u......... fl........ ..uu.....fl. f........ Un......... ..n...... .f.......... u.f..f............ .... ..............S............ . . 
Foreign Exchange                                3,038     5,399     5,708     6,149     7,208     7,026      6,482     5,804    46,815
-------------------------------------------------------------                                                                     …-------    -



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPKNT PROGRAM
NORTIHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
2. SummrY Account by Pro10et Component
(US$ 1000)
IWAT3A SSSOU4MC4S ISEIR4IOI(Of
--    --_______- AGCICULTUILAL SISUCI          tUUAL IMiION                                                   AMINISIAThION AID TU1 INIl
D01TIC                                                                                                              SUPPORS TO
MATtE           U    ptuIigs                    1110                     GOAT      SCIAL                              SILL           PWU1                      9 OIA4L
SUPPLIS IIUICAT711 WVWLOrIHIT  USIUCAI MOOUCTIOl  *MI SIOI fOCUCION PG9ZSTST  CUDIT   NIUTIINC  CUW ITIIS   AIST                             N      TIAINIII  gAUAa       Total
1. INVUSTnM? COSTS
A. CIVIL 906U
BUILDINU                               -            -            -      1,19          14          5°S            -         -         -       3,142             -                 -            -         -      ,021
EAIUM S                                        10,901          120          -           -                  -               -          - .        .             .                 _            .         _    10,921
IUPSATInUCTUU                      4,11-                                                                                                                   9,,03                 -           -          -    14,149
Sub-Totl CIVIL WORKS                  4,119       10,801          120      I'm            I4      -SO               -         -         -       3,112         9,S43                       .        .30,34
9. Tug   11I11                             -           -            -          . -          -                               309         -           -              ,                 _
C. VnlcLE  A   gqul9a(Z
IqUItf  t                            4S4          390           I        ,12           lb           23                    --         .        ,210             1               14b         Il0        2)3      3,397
V3111C1S5                            III          ISO                   1.493         190       2,940            ,                   -       1,001           I11               663            ,       612      7
PUUlItllU                               -                        -          -           -                        -         -         -           -             S                 -            -         -         10      ..
Sub-Total VtdlCLU AM IQUIIMnT            992         499           34      4*,04         211       2,541            -         2         -        2.71           92)               U2           110    1,041      12912
D. COAT   OC                               -           -            -          -            -                     211         -         -           -              - _  _ _
5, CROP PUICUAII: v                        -           -            -          -            -           -           -         -         - r,113                    *                 _           .         .      3,112
P. CUDIT                                         -            -                -            -           -           -         -   1U,9D             -                       -              -     *         -    74,00
0. STUDIU                                  _       2,170            -        3i4            -           -           -         -         *           _              _                 _           _         -      3,111
R. coU3ITT  IUISPOJIcTS                    -                                   -            -          -          -                 -                        20,93                               -               20,931
Total INYESTENt COSTS                     5,351      14,015           154     3,t06          443      3,072          2II       311   74,900         0,944        31,114              IlO          190    1,047   143, 1)
II. UCUUIIT COSTS
A. ULAEIU  AIM ALLWAllS
AMAIU                            1,l4U       l,SlS           2W0      1,1"        1,011      31,011           .       101         -        1,012         1,977            1,S11                   3,1510    42,219
SCIAL CWYCCJ                          -         Si9            i       2,126         414      17,021            -       4S          -         450         2,510             1,29             -       o19    2,134
TUVRL ALLOANCES                                  34           -         ,9           I1a       9,010                     II         -         104           Su              2,01?                    141    10,S0I
Sub-Total SAL. AmD ALLOA1I           1,34l        2,USn          196    12,410        1,199      49,111            -       17         -        1,421       9104             22,997            -    3,914    10,540
S, SUsLIMCS                                                                                            -                2,0441         -           -           '                    -           -                2,044
C, OPtIATION AND  AINTJIUANQ              -       2,403            '      2,09T         14        5,12S            -        1         -         141            204            1,020            -       221     11, 39
D. 01I1  OUTIG COST                       -         91            37      4,916         404      11,243            -    1,200          *         10)           259             5,97             -    2,64       21,41
S. IITIL STOCE   AM1                      ,           .            .          .            _           .           .         .                 1,33               _                 _           .         .         31
P. TCICICIL ASISTACI                      -       1,U              -          -                        .;2 I
0. TUmAiNNO                                           --                      -            -           --                    -         -           -          1,611                 -       4,914       _        6:4,         i
Total 9.cusCIDZ    Cost$                                                                                                                                                                                           - --______ 
1,349       1,092          III    I9,&01t       2,191      19,411            -      ,421         -        ,109        1119              2,5"2        4,914      7,002   915,909 
Tolol LUELINU COSTS                       41t05      217102           $91    25,049        2,934     54              271    3,744   14, OO        11,41S         42,263            30,709       9,004    6,049   301,291         N
Physialt   Cbattl,lWcls.                114       1,U92           20        322          30          119           -        IS         -         431            U                 41           10        U2      10,4 9
pUles Cotlipeles                        2         S,U            104       ,342         444      20,11S            4    1,193          .       1,1S4         2,693             6,464         oil    1,920       1,149        0
Total norT cOSTS                          1,131      20,945            l      31,U93       ',Its      9,X446         309    4,993   14,900        I3,499         4S,201            ",409        9,941    10,021   3S3,200        P
.6,w , . -                  .... *.--e-_*--.                 *-_fle........   **................. *-- *- __.... _ _ _  
forells 1zcharge                      1,921       6,154           57      4,442          3)2      4,932           44       323   11,220        2,346         1,124             2,34           44      1,251   4",'1
._  _._.__. ............- . _- ....... .-- --- .    ... .  ..... ............---  .- __ ....... _. _.__ . 



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHELkST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
1. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank Year        Quarter    Disbursed During        Cumulative        Balance
Fiscal        Ending            Quarter        Amount Disbursed    of Loan
1987          Dec. 31            10.2 1J             10.2            160.8
March 31           2.9                 13.1            157.9
June 30            2.9                 16.0           155.0
1988          Sept. 30            5.8                21.8            149.2
Dec. 31            5.8                27.6            143.4
March 31           5.8                33.4            137.6
June 30            5.8                39.2            131.8
1989          Sept. 30            6.0                45.2            125.8
Dec. 31            6.0                51.2            119.8
March 31           6.0                57.2            113.8
June 30            6.0                63.2            107.8
1990          Sept. 30            6.4                69.6            101.4
Dec. 31            6.4                76.0             95.0
March 31           6.4                82.4             88.6
June 30            6.4                88.8             82.2
1991          Sept. 30            6.5                95.3             75.7
Dec. 31            6.5               101.8             69.2
March 31           6.5                108.3             62.7
June 30            6.5               114.8             56.2
1992          Sept. 30            6.5               121.3             49.7
Dec. 31            6.4               127.7             43.3
March 31           6.5                134.2            36.8
June 30            6.4               140.6             30.4
1993          Sept. 30            4.0               144.6             26.4
Dec. 31            3.8               148.4             22.6
March 31           3.8                152.2             18.8
June 30            3.8               156.0             15.0
1994          Sept. 30            2.5               158.5             12.5
Dec. 31            2.5               161.0             10.0
March 31           2.5               163.5              7.5
June 30            2.5               166.0               5.0
1995          Sept. 30            2.5               168.5              2.5
Dec. 31            1.0               169.5               1.5
March 31           1.5               171.0              0
11  Including initial deposit of US$7.3 million into the Special Account.



44 -                       ANNEX 7
Page 2 of Z
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
2. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                Item                                     Amount
US$ Million
I        Water Resources Development.
70Z of expenditures                                   20.0
II        Itapera Irrigation Scheme.                              2.0
III        Irrigation Reserve fund.                                4.0
70Z of expenditures
IV        Agricultural Research. 50% of expenditures
up to an aggregate disbursement under this
this category of USS7.0 million; 30Z thereafter
until the aggregate reaches US$9.0 million;
and 10% thereafter                                    11.0
V        Rural Extension.
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of
US$14.0 million; 30Z thereafter
until the aggregate reaches
US$22.0 million; and 10% thereafter                   26.0
VI        Credit.
70% of expenditures                                   47.0
VII        Marketing.
50% of expenditures.
No disbursements would be made against
vi) expenditures for construction of 59 EBAL
shops and (ii) funds used for crop purchasing         4.5
VIII        Support to Small Communities.
70% of expenditures                                  28.0
IX        Administration and Training
(i) Administration. 50% of expenditures up to
an aggregate disbursement of US$6.0 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches
US$9.0 million; and 10% thereafter              11.0
(ii)  Training.  50% if expenditures up to au
aggregate disbursement of US$2.0 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches
US$2.5 million; and 10% thereafter              3.0
X        Regional Research.  50% of expenditures up to an
aggregate disbursement under this category of
US$2.3 million; 30% thereafter until the aggregate
reaches USS3.0 million; and 10% thereafter           3.5
Xi        Unallocated                                          11.0
171.0



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Main
Executing
Project Activity                         Agency      Main Collaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development
- State public irrigation              CERB          Consultants (IICA)
- Fingerling production                CERB          SUDENE - CAR
- Feasibility studies                  CERB          Consultants (ICA)
- Rural community water supply         CERB          Private Contractors
Municipalities
State Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation units   EPABA         EMBRAPA-CPATSA
- Basic seed production                EPABA         EMATER-BA
- Forestry Research                    EPABA         EMBRAPA
- Fish Research                        CEPED
Regional Research
- Cassava and Tropical Fruit          CaPiF          CPATSA
- Goats and Sheep                      CNPC          EMBRAPA
- Cotton                               CNPA
Rural Extension
- Agricultural Extension               EMATER-BA     EMBRATER-EPABA
- Social Forestry                      EMATER-BA     CAR
Rural Investment Credit                  BB, BNB,      EMATER-BA
BANEB, BNCC
Marketing Services
- Service centers                      EBAL          CEASA
- Marketing information                EBAL          CEASA-CAR
- Retail shops                         EBAL          SEMENTE FORMOSO
- Training courses                     COBAL         CAR-EMATER-BA
Suppnrt to Small Rural Communities
-  Community activities                Community     CAR - EMATER-BA
groups
- Training and technical
assistance                          CAR           EMATER-BA
State Project Administration
-X & E                                 CAR           SUDENE
-  Training                            CAR and
Executing
Agencies



- 46 -
AM1 9
BRAZIL
S $RAS EL
NmE rL U    PFDJ! -
Ti Am1 Area, Pw&ct       Vand      e af waor Cre  en Livest&d  a,
wtht Pvc1et               At Pul  Deicp-t b/                    iucr_tai
AM          Productin        Ares           Aba ±ro kea    Produi              VaLu
Cmps and LILestoc      (ha)          (tcs)          (ha)           (tx)          (ha)      (tm)       (Ui$00D)
Cassava                30,960       175,650         69,480        604,370       38,520    428,72D      3D,390
GDtzM                     2[0           12D          2,900         2,610        2,700       2,490       1,800
Re2~                   16,190        15,140         65,080        94,75D        48,89D     79,610      83,68D
Castor Beas             6,440         2,99D         14,870        34,850        8,43D      31,860      11,95D
Vpa B.                  3,490         2,510          5,730         5,50D         2,240      2,990       1,200
Seed                        -                        4,120         4,940        4,120       4,940       3,060
SeEd Maze                                            1,830         6,410         1,830      6,410         850
Maize                  17,02D        20,05:1        66,530        113,95D       49,510     93,860      20,D52
RIce                      310           370            390           700           80         330         19D
sisal                   1,500         1,200          1,050         1,260         (450)        60           2D
so~x&   (Grain)             -                       23,230        46,450       23,230      46,450       8,56D
rbbm                      40D           320            400           360            0         40           5D
Vegetebles (Irigated)       -                        2,30D        37,38D         2,300     37,380       5,930
Subctatl Cbpew area  76,510                       251,91O                     181,400
Algarcta and
FOrage  Car               -                       31,480             -        31,48D                    -
Improved Pasture           -                       179,910             -      179,910
Native Pasture        743,910                      351,380             -      (392,53D)                   -
Total                820,42D                      820,680 C/                     260                 168,230
Beef (carcass   W)          -           600                       13,120                   12,520      31,540
Cost Met (cass wadght)   -              210                        2,43D                    2,22D       4,140
Fbik (carcass eigb)         -         2,070                       12,940                   10,870      23,750
MDtal                                                                                            227,660
a/ Rep:sets baKt 42,300          in the project area aloptirg inxced tednolcgy (25Z of total         l).
CrCp productim reacie full devmnt in Yer 13, ile liuestod& devepi    eat des full d-velcpwnt in Year 18
Inclidsome T ble cwppLrg.



ANNEX 10
-47 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Estimated Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
YIELDS (Ugtha)           Area (ha)
Ulthout   With       without    With
Climate - Farusize and Crops         Prolect  Project    Project   Project
ARID-SELURD  - 10 ha
Vigna Reans + Maize                                         0.5        1.0
Vigna Beans                       360       480
Maize                             600       720
Cassava 1/                           5,000     6,500        0.5        1.0
Perennial Cotton                        -        900        0          1.0
Natlve Pasture                                              9.0        5.5
Improved Pasture                                            0          1.0
Algaroba + Forage Cactus                                    0          0.5
ARID-SEMiARID  - 23 ha
Maize + Beans + Castor Beans                                5.0        5.5
Maize                             540       660
Beans                             420       540
Castor Beans                      600       750
Cassava                              5,000     6,500        1.5        1.5
Grain Sorghum                           -      2,000        0          1.0
Native Pasture                                             16.5        7.0
Improved Pasture                                            0          7.0
Algaroba and Forage Cactus                                  0          1.0
DRY-SUBHUMID - 5 ha
Maize + Beans                                                1.5       2.0
Maize                             600       720
Beans                            480        600
Cassava                              6,000     8,000        0.5        1.0
Native Pasture                                              3.0        1.0
Improved Pasture                                            0         0.5
Algaroba and Forage Cactus                                  0         0.5
DRY-SUBUMEID  - 23 ha
Maize + Beans                                               0.5        1.0
Maize                             600       750
Beans                             480       600
Cassava                              6,000     8,000        1.0        2.5
Sisal                                  800     1.000        5.0        3.5
Grain Sorghum                           -      2,000        0          1.0
Native Pasture                                             16.5        '.0
Improved Pasture                                            0          7.0
Algaroba + Forage Cactus                                    0          1.0
IRRIGAIED - 5.0 ha
Vegetables                                    12,000        0         0.5
Tomatoes                                      26,000        0          0.5
Seed Beans                             360     1,200        0         0.8
Seed Maize                             600     3,500        0         0.2
Vigna Beans + Castor Beans 2/        6,000                  1.5        1.0
Vigna Beans                                  480
Castor Beans                                 780
Cassava 2/                                     8,000        2.0        1.0
Native Pasture                                              1.5        1.0
1/ All cassava yields in this table assume that the crop takes 18 months
to maturity; the yields above are presented on an annual basis and,
therefore, represents 50Z of the yields at the time of harvest.
2/ Rainfed Crops.



- 48 -
AM 11
E   ML -UUL                E
Nak3sbf uMRL -M r PR=w  - DBEA
Qhstarterlad  of  futrudw FaCI "adds r  ind i n           mli'i. . A
1et Finall FM  UWfi2u bW
Model flsu±bbuima Size   ---F          ------             in         Clowite     WDPMm          MPp ea           3)u  yr..)
No.     af Fain   (ha)   TWe               L1wmtodt  locatnz                                                    (Z)
IA       2.1IU      5    RidnE         Bae d Catt)e       AU        Dry S5b-ad         b53      4106             3S
GOata/Shu
is       7.50D     la   Ras±f          Beef catle         AU        Dy S5b-1add       249       1J!69            43
Goam/Se
2       1,200      5       1aided     Sam              SNOdte       kzid-dd    1.230           1.917             57
Irsm
3         do0      5    Rbifed         S               Paras    Dky Sabtutdd          756      1.239             50
os,ra/g,p       lbaiiste
44         4(1      5    kdei            Sue            Serr CGral Add-ed-Adid         507        767             22
Bee cattle
4B       2.50)0    10    Raiiia        swine            .btdmte    Add-SOU-Armd        160        770            34
ed Catle        Serze Caer
5       1.6UO     10 d/ Prdate        9.d*               All       lveze              4D       1.447            33
kxdpted
7       5I,0      5 e/ Etablid        -               1tapeza     AriFrSmd-rid       776      3,145            65
Irrigated                     Sobtai*m
8t       1.200     23    Raited        Bfe  Cattle      Paxqraa    Dry &tubxidd      1.72D      2,633            35
GD-/aIeqp       %bzdite
dnZ 23    PaL   bxf  Ge  ire A2
as      16,0130    ZS   Ralifdl        ELcaf Cattle       All       Sty ~-ebfted       249      2,599            49
9A         FM      23    Rattead       Beg Cattle       lr"m        Arld Sm-Arid    2.503       3.831            57
swim            P-aw
9B      W4,350     28    Ralafa        Beef Cattle-     Xrodete    Arld Sadi-d         4&1      3.468            62
10        4C0      23    Raifdel       Goats/Shmeq      Sz Geral Arld Se-Arid   1,388           1.941            24
20     23    Rairxed        Beef Cattle      Oete       tII Sub-b=md   1.674         2,810            44
12         340     23    Ratted        Bed Catle        tbrdte    Scy Sub-tdd         975       2,157            39
9dm               -ge
13       LtD        ; I/ stWlmrta           /shew         All       Dlverse          8am        2.093            47
Total    42-5,*
a/ Ti nnbs I G am  eqeced to receive dir   tedcal 1aL stim               t  31t e of  a g  em 1s
170,0 of these, 42300  arzpeW t  adopt iproued raccics ad Incea  puchn.
bJ BIore flxaidg figure.
ct Yawr    vah.
d/ Cnastin  of 3 b Irriatdal and 7 he Eaifed
Cmsrt1g of 3 ha frnptel a-d 2 h  ra Wae.
LI CoyA,itIug if I ha irrigated ad 22 ha raUffed.



IRAZU.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NOlMFAST RLFAL MM        W  P             - WI
1.  Project Ccnmic Analysis
(in MUilli    of Criulrms of  Dter  1984)                                                   ;
I       2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9       10      11        12       13      14       15       16      17       I8    19-20
(MSS (Ct*3AMi B32Ef1IS                          719    77X)   22697   48945   8$493  128125  172215  212472  243157  264548  278658   285477  288754  291357  292948  293895  294191  294462  2W462
(a39S UFARM 4OMS                               9757   27829   45981   62752   f2093   38776  111321  120353  117916  119142  123544   137535  134625  132913  132889  133136  132343  031092  128497
TJrAL ON-FARI L4I0*)tNW. *        2 E F.llI    -'3038  -20U99  -23284  -13807    3900   29349   680    92119  125241  1454d6  155114   152642  154129  15B446  160059  .O759  16184   163370  165965
---- ---- --- ----  ___  
iiCr "IS
IRMClT I0N                                     3065    3370    4527    4479    5693    5912    4509    4236            -        -       -         -        -       -        -        -
8LV391.3A     UEVEUW.Nr                         530      119     122      126      126      126     126      126       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
1O.LWAR1H                                     8389    589    5579    7669    8186    7847    7911    7507    6100    4692    3285               1877    1877    3877     1877 1817    1877    1877   8177
SEID PI8DLLTICI                                 633    I1Cfl    600       597     8bO      781      781      781     635      488      342       195     195      195     195      195      195      195     195
VJXIe2EUI1N                                    5439   15149   174h7   17878   17773   26685   28437   26482   21517   16551   11586            6620    6620    6620    6620    6620    6620    6620    6620
ODAT PR3UWrLN                                    94      104     120      141      170       -        -        -        -       -        -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
KARI:rl=                                        8W9    6096    6301    4495    489        1456      669     669    Y5         418      293       167     167      167     167      167      L67      167     167
MWXthlE  ffIMlNL4  TITUH                      6439    7100    7487    6955    8133   11392   11763   11204    9103    7003    4902            2801    2lOI    2803    2803    2303I    Z01    2801    2801
ILNIN;                                         34C6    2927    2324    3903    1543        251      250      212     175      137      I0       62       62       62      62       62       62      62       62
REfGtiOL P1KX2m  armImTI4XI                    22ZD    1071      642      721      b0     384      317      230      153      77        -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
[OX,*C4AL RNlVAR   1                           2060    1216    1026    3026    1026        855      684      513     342      171        -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Rt'tlON2ALS R Rt' 1[                            540     676      7J0      654      635     607      6D4      631     526      451        -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
TOMrAL PRJ1EC3.T U.b'S                        31624   448305   46985   46644   49503   5S295   56041   52561   39G93   29988   20505    11722   11722   11722   11722   11722   11722   11722   1172Z
IUFM. 3lEtU 'r 1KM**XVIU. Nh'r 3EN&133S   -tiW2  -64904  -70269  40Y51  -45603  -26946    4847   3955i3  86148  115418  1346(9   140920  142407  146724  148337  149037  150126  151648  154243                         " ' _
___,,- ___--__                                                                                                 -_-----O 0 
i_t,
N-



EQ2ZIL
NUZnWUS  RURAL DFUAIW    PRoU
NoAsir RUAL DYmteDrT PhlECR  - WBUA
2. Pceet Values of Not attem, at a Diacumt rate of IIZ
BENEFITS        UP I0       UP 20X      UP 50%    DOWN 10X    DOWN 202    DOWN 50X  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
COSTS           173,620.0   220,197.4   266,774.9   406,507.2   127,042.6    80,465.1   -59,267.2   127,462.2    85,878.6    48,415.8
UP 10%          144,404.6   190,982.0   237,559.4   377,291.7    97,827.1    51,249.7   -88,482.6    98,246.7    56,663.1    19,200.4
UP 202          115,189.1   161,766.6   208,344.0   348,076.3    68,611.7    22,034,3  -117,698.0    69,031.3    27,447.7   -10,015.0
UP 50%           27,542.8    74,120.3   120,697.7   260,430.0   -19,034.6   -65,612.0  -205,344.3   -18,615.0   -60,198.6   -97,661.3
DOWN 10Z        202,835.4   249,412.9   295,990.3   435,722.6   156,258.0   109,680.6   -30,051.7   156,677.6   115,094,0    77,631.3
DOWN 202        232,050.9   278,628.3   325,205.7   464,938.0   185,473.4   138,896.0           -836.3   185,893.0   144,309.4   106,846.7
DOWN 50X        319,697.2   366,274.6   412,852.0   552,584.3   273,119.7   226,542.3    86,810.0   273,539.4   231,955.7   194,493.0
LAG I YEAR               -           -            -            -            -            -            -   156,414.4   114,830.8    71,368,1
LAG 2 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -   140,913.9   103,451.2
LAG 3 YEARS                    -            -                         -           -                                            -   126,949.4
3. Sesitivity Analysi1
BENEFITS    UP 102       UP 202       UP 502    DOWN 10:    DOWN 202    DOWN 50X  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS                               °
COSTS              17.516       18.820       19.998       22.953       16.061       14.421       7.784       15.520       13.901       12.569
UP 102             16.200       17.516       18,707       21,704       14.735       13.085        6,426       14.335      12.829       11.594
UP 202             14.991       16.315       17.516       20.546       13,517       11,860        5.181      13.250       11.849       10.704
UP 50%             11.860       13.202       14.421       17.516       10.372        8.702        1.965      10.456        9.336        8.425
DOWN 10%           18.957       20.245       21.406       24.308       17.516       15.889       9.281       16825       15,084       13.647
DOWN 20X           20.546       21.814       22.953       25.787       19,125       17.516       10.949       18.274      16,403       14,852
DOWN 50Z           26.579       27.723       28.740       31,214       25.279       23.787       17.516      23.900       21.597       19.634
LAG 1 YEAR              -            -            -            -            -            -            -      17,516       15,520       13.901
LAG 2 YEARS              -           -            -            -            -            -            -           -       17.516       15,520
LAG 3 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -       17.516
SWITCHING VALUES AT 112
.......................
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAAGE
STREAM                   VALUE        VALUE         CHANGE                                                                                                          r
BFNEFITS           465,774,35   292,154.35          -37.28ZO
o N
I-h
COSTS               292,154.35   465,774.35          59.43X                                                                                                        N
---------------------------_-----------------------------
Net Present Value at 0CC 11Z * 173,620
Internal Rate of Return - 17.52
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return a 19.4Z



- 51 -
ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
NORIHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHTA
Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in Constant November 1984 Prices)
Selected Products     Unit           Financial               Economic
1984      1998
Beans                per kg            1,400             1,400     1,400
Maize                                    300               440       386
Rice                      -              600               634       679
Sorghum                -  "              250               250       250
Cotton                 -  *            1,000             1,414     1,336
Cassava                                  100               100       100
Castor Beans                             700             1,019     1,019
Goat Meat              -               2,600             2,600     2,600
Selected Inputs
Urea                                     600               801     1,037
Superphosphate                           450               280       ;.0
Potassium Chloride                       700               505       559
Source: Bank Mission



- 52 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAlA
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on Northeast of Brazil
World Bank Report 3938-BR  Rural Development Progrnms for Brazil's Northeast:
An Interim Assessment, February 7, 1983.
Kutcher, Gary P. and P.L. Scandizzo. -The Agricultural Economy of Northeast
Brazil." A World Bank Research Publication. The Johns Hopkins University
Press, Baltimore and London, 1981.
B. SUDENE: -Regional Program of Support to the Small Rural Producer, Hay 1984.
Volume I   - Program Summary
Volume II  - Background
Part I   - The Brazilian  Economy
Part II - The Northeast
Part III - The Rural Section in Northeast
Volume III - Policy Framework
Volume IV  - The Program
Part I       - Global Conception
Part II-VIII - Program Components
Part IX      - Targets and Total Costs
Volume V   - Administration
Voolume VI  - Socio-Economic Justification
Annex      - Regional Agricultural Programming
SUDENE:   Description of the Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-Systems, September 1984.
SUDENE:   Project Analysis Report on Bahia State Rural Development Plan,
October 1984.
C.  CAR:      Northeast Program for Support of Small Farmers, October 1984.
Volume I   - Project Background Analyses (Diagnosis)
Volume II  - Part I   - Farm Models
Part II  - Farm Models
Volume III - Part I   - Project Summary
Part II  - Land Activities
Part III - Water Resource Development
Part IV  - Generation and Diffusion of Technology
Part IV  - Technology Annex
Part V   - Production and Marketing of Seed and
Seedlings
Part VI  - Marketing with two Annexes
Part VII - Support to Small Communities
Volume IV - Administration
Volume V   - Training



- 53 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
D. EMBRAPA: Investment Program for the three national production centers CN'PMF,
CNPA and CNPC (4 volumes)
E. IDB:       Project Report BR-0158 'Integrated Rural Development Project IRECE in
the State of Bahia, August 16, 1982.
F. World      Report 5360-BR - National Land Administration Project, Northeast
Bank:     SAR, Region TLnd Tenure Improvement Project, January 3, 1985.
SAR, Report 5349-BR Northeast Rural Development Project -
Sergipe
SAR, Report 5350-BR Northeast Rural Development Project -
Rio Grande do Norte
World Bank and State Government of Bahia: iMInutes of Understanding,-
December 17, 1984.
G. Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1. Water Resource Development - Irrigation
2. Water Resource Development - Water Supply
3. Agricultural Research and Rural Extension
4. Goat Production Subcomponent
5. Marketing Services
6. Social Forestry Development
7. Support to Small Conmmnities
8. Human Resource Development
9. Agricultural Development and Farm Models
10. Financial and Economic Analysis
11. Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
12. Project Administration



54  -                                           CUART 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVEOPMENT  PROJECT (BA4HIA)
Noethos Rural DeIompmsnt Program
Priect Coodkoio and Managemnent Chatd
FEDERZWEL                           cOOROviAmOM&                                       POSJY&ADUOQT
NW3MflO RIMCW8,
I   OEDekOFUf                            C
=                                             1 Isw 
REGIONAL           SS      SECR   SECZ I I CM                  ON=
.= r _r_ ,,.,,,~MAP                                              %~    I 1      111
- SWE EL
SPPCI  I FO~SP   I POTSA       .J  I  AWS oF  I                                  I
vWWx&L M                                                  COO l   __ _N
OW801%   ,                                                      i
SUPPMaro                l r          rG        S
--t  t--t--t--t- r                                                                 - --um-



- 55 -
CHART 2
BRAZIL
A        NORTHST R.JRAL OD OMI  PROJE:T (AHA)
Ncflheo Ruwd DobmsVt Pmgran
Impnwe   d    utoon Sctedule
a         _ e          s    ~    ~      ~ 2   3           *           5           *                      B 
_W    1 2 3 _   ' 2 3 A  _  2 3 A  I 2 3 a  I 2 3  _ 1 2  3 a  1 2 3 -                       2 3 a
----1L                                                    tt[t[tlEl 
F,               I E l  - I_ _ m      _  _        _ t
-1 suwlo  cope la me an    I     E_______________I 
CUM" gO&ICh                                    m mmu   Put mm    - I   -      mu m ur ng  in    onmlI    Pon~ Pon
cm  ums                                   mU       ..um         E    E     mm m
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                          I  I   I  i I  a  I  i
cxmwcm.uft      EAMs   in we mumm       4
.--aW.*.,....    ,1   :: tam               - = - -    = -    = - - -=i    --
:Da,,mj~vAcs             IE Scmu III 1
A9UMWAI               aIl, l T                                  1rITI                   lL            I            I
*tmw 3.Smmm    SW -     _f-    P                                                                            bm-27371
1610,1aS-_Ma



IBR0 18480
t. _ ;'~~~,                    ,       ,  A  7  1 A   NV T I         
P A RPAR2OGRAM W                      t            B                                 t-_  t ', - ?       9  AREA
6/.~~~~~~~~~~i D,,L E
2 O A SFO X                                                                 0RT.LEZ.  S
RIO GRANDE
RS1)      4   /                  ,                     X      A )A ~   QIrp*yeAs    m  m
MjRA  NH(AO  >  CEgAR~~~~~~~~~~~D NRT
-rI  ~-'---~E-A     A M I' N  A
N~ /    (                                                                                           1Rz SSAfsfTO   =  oz- SSANTO   -  *NUmber oducoler ordel of nolementoveon
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1vJ  'TALVAGOR         ~PROGRAM AREA
IE1 B-Ek-F,.S..-d R..oj D.-e,.-o,,ep P,o,eO-
S  -tR-PCod.
FEDERAL OlISEREOE
-SEsEp Bo,-d.-p
M I NA/S~AG   RA IS                  R     RA I  ESPRTSR0 
Z,SAN~                          G



*RD 1889A
BRAZIL                                                                                                                          PaRI%AMBUOD
NORHIEM  RURM DEOELOPMENT PROGRAM       -70
RDjec in                       MARAINHA
StAIE OF BA&4A                                     *LU
-              -. -\L 
\' ,,c        ,   X  ..                            oay                      '  9  
OESTE  OESTE ) -I5K
0  - ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       G
-  +9'                                        :::___ _________
MINSi   - -                                          -        0
ES~~~~~~~~~~. 18



