Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16191
I'MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SERGIPE, RIO GRANDE DO NORTE, BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR)
December 20, 1996
tF-LE CO7.P:
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit: I                                    Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Rate at Appraisal:    Bahia (November 1984)               US$1/Cr$2,714
Ceara (November 1985)               US$1/Cr$8,891
Rio Grande do Norte (June 1984)     US$1/Cr$1,640
Sergipe (June 1984)                 US$1/Cr$1,640
Rate at Completion:                                       US$1/R$0.968
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
A new currency, the Cruzado, was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real, in 1994
Vice President         Shahid Javed Burki
Director               Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief         Constance Bernard
Staff Member           Anna Roumani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACC               Association for the Support of Rural Communities
APCR               Support for Small Rural Communities
CAR                Bahia State Regional Development Company
CEPA               State Agricultural Planning Commission (Tech. Unit, Bahia and Ceara)
CMDR               Municipal Rural Development Council
CODEC              Project Coordinating Unit for State of Rio Grande do Norte
CPATSA             Center for Agricultural Research on the Semi-Arid Tropics
EMBRAPA            Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
FETARN             Federation of Agricultural Workers of Rio Grande do Norte
FINSOCIAL          Social Investment Fund
FUMAC              Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
IERR               Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA               Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
IRD                Integrated Rural Development
MINTER             Ministry of the Interior
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
PAC                State Community Schemes
PAPP               Program of Support for the Small Producer
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
POLONORDESTE  Program for the Development of the Integrated Northeast
PRONESE            Project Technical Unit for the State of Sergipe
RPAP               Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (successor to NRDP)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEPLAN             State Planning Secretariat
SETAS              State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action
SSMP               Simplified Project Monitoring System
SUDENE             Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
TOR                Tenns of Reference
TU                 Technical Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SERGIPE. RIO GRANDE DO NORTE, BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                                     iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
Background .........................................................1I
Project Objectives and Design under the Original NRDP ...................                 ...................3
Reformulation of the NRDP .................6........................................6
Achievement of Project Objectives .............................              .............................9
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Projects ...........11........... 1
Use of Consultants .........................................................                           18
Project Sustainability and Future Operations ......................................................  18
Bank Performance ......- .......                         .......                           ....... ...... 19
Borrower Performance .........................................................                         21
Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                        25
Main Findings and Lessons Learned .........................................................             27
PART  II: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION .........................................................   33
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments                     ................................................... 33
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans                     ................................................... 41
Table   3.   Project  Tim etable                           ................................................... 43
Table 4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 45
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation . ........................................ 49
Table 6.   Studies Included in the Project ................................................. .. 65
Table 7.  Project Costs and Financing ...............................              .................... 66
Table 8.  Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                70
Table 9.  Project Costs and Benefits ...................................................               79
Table 10. Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ........................................... ........ 84
Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                 86
Table 12. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State ...............                     ............... 91
Table 13. Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP   ......... 92
Table 14. Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC  Subprojects, by Type and State  ......... 93



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
APPENDIX I: Borrower Contribution to ICR ..................................  95
MAPS:          IBRD 18480, 18481, 11684R, 18894, and 19653



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SERGIPE. RIO GRANDE DO NORTE. BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR)
PREFACE
I.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for four projects under the
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in the States of Sergipe (Ln. 2523-BR),
Rio Grande do Norte (2524-BR), Bahia (2761-BR) and Ceara (2763-BR). Loans in the
amounts of US$61.3 million, US$61.4 million, US$171.0 million and US$122.0 million,
respectively, were approved by the Board on April 30, 1985 (Sergipe and Rio Grande do
Norte) and October 21, 1986 (Bahia and Ceara). The projects became effective on
December 12, 1985 (Sergipe), May 7, 1986 (Rio Grande do Norte) and October 19, 1987
(Bahia and Ceara).
2.    The four Loans closed on December 31, 1995. The original Closing Dates were
respectively, June 30, 1993 for Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte, and March 31, 1995 for
Bahia and Ceara. Final disbursement took place as follows: Sergipe (May 31, 1996), Rio
Grande do Norte (July 10, 1996), Bahia (June 10, 1996) and Ceara (May 21, 1996).
Cancellation of the respective Loan balances (Rio Grande do Norte US$0.2 million, Bahia
US$3.8 million and Ceara US$7.1 million) occurred on November 12, 1996. Sergipe did
not have an outstanding balance.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani, Consultant, Natural Resources,
Environment and Rural Poverty Operations Division, Department I of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region (LAC). The ICR was reviewed by Constance Bernard, Chief,
LAIER; Luis Coirolo, Brazil Portfolio Manager, LAIER; Tulio Barbosa, Acting Head,
Bank Recife Office; and Orville Grimes, Project Advisor, Country Department 1.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file and discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who were involved in the projects. It draws on the Mid-Term evaluation of
the NRDP, including a study by the Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank, and
other recent evaluations by: the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO/UN) jointly
with the World Bank; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); the University of
Michigan; and the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) as
the representative of the Federal Government. These, and other internal Bank reports on
rural poverty programs in the Northeast, are on file in the LAC Information Services
Center.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SERGIPE. RIO GRANDE DO NORTE. BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1 .    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central state of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million sq. km. The
Region's immense concentration of rural poor and persistent under-development result
from geographic, economic and political factors evidenced in the harsh climate and poor
natural resource base, inequitable land tenure and distribution, a traditional and clientilistic
culture, illiteracy and lack of basic infrastructure and services. The Bank has financed
rural development in the Brazilian Northeast since the 1970s. The Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP) -- of which projects in the States of Sergipe, Rio Grande
do Norte, Bahia and Ceara are reviewed in this report -- sought to alleviate rural poverty
by improving the productivity and incomes of small farmers. The Program was a
component of a larger package of Federally-funded sectoral programs to improve regional
socio-economic conditions, and was consistent with government's new rural development
strategy for the Northeast initiated in 1982. The NRDP acknowledged that in aggregate,
the special programs, sectoral projects and Federal irrigation projects until that time, had
not reduced rural poverty (Part I, paras. 1-6).
Project Objectives
2.    Original Objectives. The initial objectives of the NRDP through its component
state projects were to: (i) increase regional agricultural production and productivity; (ii)
generate employment for low-income farm families; (iii) increase the states' capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; and (iv) promote water resource
development and technology generation and diffusion to reduce small farmers'
vulnerability to drought (Part I, para. 7).
3.    Project Components. To meet these objectives, the original projects had seven
components: (i) water resources development, including irrigation and feasibility studies;
(ii) agricultural research and basic seed production; (iii) agricultural extension for basic
food and commercial crops, small livestock and social forestry; (iv) agricultural credit, for
investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm water resource development;
(v) marketing services including training; (v) support to small rural communities (known



- iv -
by its Portuguese acronym as APCR), to promote the mobilization and participation of
small farmers, to finance small rural investments in production, processing and rural
infrastructure, and to create employment; and (vii) project administration (Part I, para. 8)..
4.    Hindsight and current practice tend to color assessments of the NRDP projects at
entry. It should be noted that the Program was developed and its component projects
appraised under a centralized military government in which public agencies controlled
most development activity. Concepts like participation, organization and decentralization
entailed political difficulties in Brazil, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon, and were largely
experimental in project design (e.g., the Latin American social funds, and the APCR
itself). Nevertheless, there was a conscious attempt to innovate. Greater flexibility,
accountability from below, more narrowly-focused activities, and improved planning and
coordination were ingredients believed likely to improve the outcome of the Program
(Part I, para. 9).
5.    On the other hand, project objectives still depended on the synergy between many
complementary activities both within each project and in other Federal Government
programs meant to interact with the NRDP (known collectively as Projeto Nordeste).
Numerous components and agencies required effective services and coordination.
Administrative, financing and implementing arrangements were complex, multilayered and
centralized, and left little room for beneficiary involvement. While there were variations in
project design between states, the projects could have gone further to calibrate design to
the institutional, political and agronomic environment of each state. Land tenure
improvement depended on progress under a separate operation (the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project, Ln. 2593-BR). The focus was on small farmers,
excluding other segments of the rural poor. Measures to address potential counterpart
funding delays and shortfalls were unlikely to be effective and indeed, certain aspects of
project design had the potential to aggravate those delays. On balance however, appraisal
of the projects was satisfactory given existing constraints, and subject to two caveats:
evident pressures to lend to Brazil in the mid-1980s; and, an apparent uncritical
acceptance of the capacities of implementing agencies, although some federal agencies did
have considerable technical capacity (Part I, paras. 10-19).
6.    As with earlier operations, the loans were made to the Federal Government which
coordinated the Program, approved its annual operating plans and budgets, and provided
counterpart funds, monitoring and evaluation. While it is technically true that most
project activities were implemented by state, not federal agencies, the Federal Government
exercised dominant control over these projects both from Brasilia and through the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), (Part I, para. 20).
7.    Post-Reformulation Objectives. Delayed, uneven project implementation and
the results of a Mid-Term Review (1991) launched a process culminating in reformulation
of all ten NRDP projects in 1993. The focus changed from rural/agricultural development
emphasizing small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation
emphasizing poor rural communities and investments in their productive, infrastructural
and social priorities. The comparatively successful APCR component, which stressed
community planning and organization, acknowledged community needs and contracted
out for technical expertise, essentially became the leading edge of the NRDP. While still



v -
evolving and not without problems, its poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost
per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of
other components. In contrast, the other components relying mostly on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research, water supply and irrigation -- showed
serious delays. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs -- less than
one-third of project funds reached the beneficiaries -- and their poverty impact was slight.
8.    Project objectives were re-framed to: (i) provide basic social and economic
infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor
(not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying, planning and
implementing their own subprojects; and (iii) involve state governments more directly in
decision-making and financing the Program. Both the Federal Government and the States
agreed with the Bank that a more cost-effective, participatory method for poverty
alleviation was needed and that the features of the proposed model matched a growing
sentiment in Brazil for decentralization, the elimination of public agencies from the
development process, transparency, accountability and local empowerment (Part I, paras.
2 1-25).
9.    The New Mechanism. The new scheme incorporated the following features,
replicated in all ten states: (i) state, as opposed to federal, responsibility for counterpart
funding; (ii) more streamlined flow of funds to the states, eliminating SUDENE from the
chain and reducing its role overall; and (iii) two new programs: State Community
Schemes (PAC), where rural community associations submitted subproject investment
proposals directly to State Project Technical Units (TUs) which screened, approved and
released funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and Pilot
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities were reviewed by specially-created project Municipal
Councils (MC), with members drawn from the community, local government and civil
society. MCs promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through open 'town
meetings", screening and submitting subprojects to the State (TU) for approval and
financing. FUMAC's basic difference from and advantage over PAC, is its provision for
direct municipal involvement in community mobilization, organization and priority-setting,
which fosters participation and transparency (Part I, paras. 26-29).
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Achievement of Objectives Prior to Reformulation. The four projects
reviewed were unable to achieve their original objectives. Public investment and project
counterpart funding were choked off and public agencies were severely affected by rising
fiscal deficits, macro-economic distortions and successive reform programs. The NRDP's
centralized "machinery" and delivery of services by public agencies ran counter to the new
Constitution (1988) which decentralized government and foresaw a greater role for the
private sector. Inter-agency coordination was exceptionally difficult, agencies'
implementing skills were limited and excessive loan funds went for their operating costs.
Beneficiary participation was lacking and thus project "ownership" and maintenance of
investments, were negligible. Project benefits (especially credit and extension) were
frequently appropriated by larger farmers, while multiple components served different
target groups without being mutually reinforcing, scattering resources and impact. Other



- vi -
issues included institutional, policy and functional problems affecting extension, credit and
the land tenure project, and performance problems with the choice and sustainability of
investments (Part I, paras. 35-41).
11.   The Post-Reformulation Experience. In marked contrast to the initial phase,
the four projects successfully achieved their objectives following reformulation. First,
through effective targeting, they reached their intended beneficiaries, including the
landless. Investment subprojects -- categorized as productive, infrastructure and social --
are generating employment and economic growth, and improving the incomes and welfare
of large numbers of rural poor, including women. Poor communities are willing to share
the cost of investments and maintain them, fostering sustainability. Benefits are largely
concentrated in the poor communities, with multiplier effects on local economies and early
signs of stemming migration. Project-funded investments hastened communities' recovery
from the 1993 drought and promoted more intensive use of land. In the poorest
municipalities/communities, PAC and FVMAC have been the most important and often,
the only source of funding for basic needs.
12.   Second, community empowerment prospered under the four projects. The
FUMAC Municipal Councils are a viable means of giving the rural poor greater control
over planning and investments affecting their well-being, and participation has had
sustainable political effects. The now numerous community associations congregate a
large number of voters, and politicians are aware of their influence. The states intensified
efforts towards closing to train and mobilize municipalities and associations, specifically to
incorporate them into FUMAC which stresses greater participation, transparency and local
decision-making.
13.   Third, the projects have earned strong support from state and municipal
governments. They are, not surprisingly, seen as a means of increasing political
constituencies. Equally, however, they are valued as a critical resource for investment in
poor communities; as representing potential, significant cost-savings (on average 30% to
40%) on the provision of infrastructure and water supply by public agencies; and, as
generating tax revenue for state and municipal governments from the sale of productive
outputs. State project units are providing services more rapidly in response to
communities better equipped to demand and choose. State counterpart funding
performance was good in all four states, and disbursements accelerated -- a dramatic break
from past performance. Finally, an increasing number of municipalities are willing to share
the counterpart funding burden, seeking greater accountability and cost-effectiveness from
state governments in return (Part I, paras. 42-64).
14.   Sustainability. Cost-sharing and better choice and prioritization of subprojects
have promoted the sense of ownership and control which builds sustainability.
Commitment to the operation and maintenance of investments is shown by associations
signing legally-binding agreements, and in the many associations which have accumulated
substantial reserve funds to cover maintenance. Subproject investments have been of
good or satisfactory quality, favoring sustainability. However, some earlier productive
subprojects may not be sustainable, their future affected by a variety of factors.
Corrective measures to counter such risks were prioritized in the later stages of these
projects and are stressed in the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects, under



- vii -
implementation in Sergipe, Bahia and Ceara and approved by the Board on December 12,
1996 for Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and Piaui (Part I, paras. 68-69).
15.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetables. Loans totaling US$415.7 million
were made to the States of Sergipe (US$61.3 million), Rio Grande do Norte (US$61.4
million), Bahia (US$171.0 million) and Ceara (US$122.0 million) to benefit some 255,300
small farm families, about 45% of the NRDP target population. Partial cancellations of
the Loans occurred on December 21, 1994 as follows (same order): US$1.0 million;
US$10.0 million; US$60.0 million; and US$30.0 million. Final Loan balances of US$0.2
million, US$3.8 million and US$7.1 million (Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia and Ceara
respectively) were cancelled on November 12, 1996. The actual cost of each project was:
Sergipe US$113.8 million, Rio Grande do Norte US$97.4 million, Bahia US$198.5
million and Ceara US$156.5 million. The reformulation resulted in a markedly different
allocation of project financing relative both to categories and costs estimated at appraisal.
16.   Loan Covenants. The key legal covenants in the pre-reformulation phase
concerned the Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper
functioning of the rural credit component. Compliance was deficient in both areas, in the
four states. Post-reformulation, the states assumed legal responsibility for counterpart
funds (through Letters of Amendment) and the credit component was discontinued.
Covenant compliance post-reformulation was satisfactory in the states reviewed (Part I,
para. 90).
17.   Bank Performance. Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a
thoughtful attempt to innovate and counter risk in a difficult environment, but the
framework, concept and mechanisms retained many of the characteristics which had
prejudiced the outcome of earlier projects in the region, the fiscal and macro-economic
environment merited greater attention, and institutional capacity, especially state, was
over-estimated. Key federal agencies, however, had considerable technical capacity.
Realistically, the Bank would have been clairvoyant to foresee the full nature and
implications of pivotal events which came to affect project execution, especially after
1988.
18.   The Bank's choice was essentially to cancel these projects or try to improve their
impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted design and dialogue process which culminated
in dropping all the traditional integrated rural development (IRD) components, focusing
fully on a new mechanism and making it work. Clearly there was no mechanism in the
Bank at the time for coming to quick closure on project reformulation; constitutional
changes were a reality from 1988, counterpart funding shortages were evidently chronic,
and project execution was troubled. Yet, reformulation did not occur until seven years
after effectiveness, a situation which would be unlikely to occur under the Bank's
implementation culture of the 1990s.
19.   The Bank has, through the PAC/FUMAC model, made a major technical
contribution to Brazil, based on its own experiences; launched a more democratic and
effective process of rural poverty alleviation; and perhaps more importantly, supported the
decentralized allocation of resources in the rural Northeast. Obviously, the dramatic shift
did not imply that the rural poor no longer needed credit, extension and other services or



- viii -
that smallholder agricultural production had lost currency. Indeed, having gained
confidence in the capacity of the community-based investment mechanism to satisfy a
range of basic needs, the Bank is now addressing several critically important subsectors in
the Northeast: market-based land reform, integrated water management, and rural
financial market development.
20.   The World Bank Recife Office (established in 1974), has been fundamental to the
implementation and supervision of the reformulated NRDP. The Recife Office has three
task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states, handling all
supervision activities including procurement reviews and field visits. In this manner, Bank
support has been better tailored to the decentralized structure of the reformulated
program. The Recife Office also updates and manages a global database, the Simplified
Project Monitoring System (SSMP) which provides detailed information on individual
state projects and serves as a monitoring tool for the Bank and the state TUs (Part I,
paras. 72-75).
21.   Borrower Performance. Macro-economic, fiscal and political crises rapidly
eroded the Federal Government's (FG) support for these projects in the first phase of the
NRDP. Post-reformulation, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the
states, the FG periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of Federal
(Treasury) funds to them, whether for political reasons (notably in Rio Grande do Norte in
1994) or to promote financial discipline. The flow of funds improved, especially in
1995/96. The Federal and State Governments' willingness to support a radically new
approach to rural poverty alleviation was instrumental in the success of these projects.
22.   SUDENE's performance prior to the reformulation was mixed. Its control over
the use of Federal funds, maintaining a certain equilibrium in the Program, and provision
of TA for training and monitoring, were satisfactory. However, its guidance and
supervision were weak, its operational rigidity curbed the intended flexibility of the
Program, and it lacked sufficient trained staff for its role even though it was grossly over-
staffed. Project-funded TA had little institutional impact on SUDENE. Its role was
reduced to ex-post evaluation following reformulation. Performance improved and it
provided an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.
23.   TU performance depended on the availability of qualified staff, good leadership,
the equipment and budget to operate as planned, and the degree of administrative and
financial independence from parent State Secretariats. Pre-reformulation, the TUs, while
administratively and legally strong, lacked the political and fiscal power to influence the
powerful state implementing agencies, and their role was diminished as a result. Post-
reformulation, generic problems variously affected each of the four TUs in the initial
stages. These included overstaffing, inadequate field presence, supervision, monitoring
and evaluation, and a tendency for TUs to assume responsibility for the subproject
planning and implementation cycle at the expense of the local context and beneficiary
participation. However, the outcome of the latter was at times quite favorable, depending
on the circumstances.
24.   The Bahia and Sergipe TUs, unlike Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte, enjoyed
considerable independence but were not entirely comfortable with the decentralized



- ix -
project design which followed reformulation. In Bahia, there was much more participation
by the mayors and performance in the field, measured by the flow of funds to poor rural
communities, showed dramatic improvement over the past. In a significant innovation, the
Rio Grande do Norte TU sought the assistance of NGOs to bolster its supervision and
implementation of the project, bringing political support and credibility for the project in
the communities, allowing it to survive and indeed, to become a model for other states.
The Sergipe TU was outstanding for its small size, rational organizational structure, well-
trained and dedicated staff and strict adherence to project guidelines. The Sergipe project
was the only one to disburse close to 100% of the original loan, canceling only US$1.0
million in 1994 (Part I, paras. 76-84).
25.    Project Outcome. Staff Appraisal Reports for the original projects contain
internal economic rates of return (IERR) for the four states ranging from 13% to 19%. It
is implicit from the history of these projects and their radical re-design in 1993 that they
were unsatisfactory and their IERRs pre-reformulation have not been re-calculated. The
Mid-Term Review of the original projects (1991) noted that the impact of the Program on
production, income and employment was difficult to assess due to the lack of concrete
information and data, in spite of considerable effort to institute good monitoring and
evaluation.
26.   The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions and thus
IERRs were not calculated, or accordingly, re-calculated. However, recent evaluations
(Bank/FAO 1995 and 1996) have addressed the poverty alleviation impact, cost-
effectiveness and sustainability of a range of commonly-demanded infrastructure,
productive and social subprojects. The 1995 evaluation looked at all ten state projects
under the NRDP, while in 1996, the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and
Minas Gerais were the main focus. While primarily illustrative, given the newness of most
of these subprojects, and in the case of the 1995 evaluation, the quest for a satisfactory
evaluation methodology, the results are nevertheless promising.
27.    Evaluations show that: (i) internal economic rates of return (IERR) for productive
subprojects in most cases ranged from 30% to 50% in financial terms, and 40% to 50% in
economic terms; (ii) in terms of the sensitivity of the IERRs to the distorting effects of
publicly-funded grants, stemming from costs associated with raising these funds (i.e.,
taxation), using the shadow price of public funds reduced the respective IERRs, but they
remained significantly positive and exceeded 17% in all cases; and (iii) the initial
investment per additional job created was low (at least 10 times lower than in the industry
and service sectors) and benefit/cost ratios were satisfactory (between 1.0 and 3.0).
28.   Analysis of cost recovery indicated that user fees from beneficiary associations
adequately covered operation and maintenance (O&M) and the costs of replacing worn
equipment. Findings were fairly uniform across states, that the net income of beneficiary
associations is sufficient, after deducting all O&M expenses, to cover replacement of the
investment in 5-7 years, compared to its useful life of 10 years.



x -
29.   Each of the four projects is rated Satisfactory reflecting its achievement of
objectives, sustainability and exit ratings in final supervision Forms 590 (Part I, paras. 91-
98).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
30.   Main Findings. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off counterpart
funding and other potential problems, the original projects remained fairly traditional
conceptually and operationally. Deteriorating fiscal and macro-economic conditions had a
devastating effect on counterpart funding and the ability of these projects to make
headway. The highly-centralized project design could not function as envisaged in face of
momentous changes in the political economy which demanded a more decentralized,
participatory rural development model. Thus, while the Bank could not control the larger
forces at play in Brazil, project design created its own set of problems.
31.   The reformulated projects successfully reached their objectives because their
design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political, economic and social context.
This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by the Bank, to take a poverty
alleviation approach, with all its implications of decentralization, grants, ownership and
participation, instead of a rural/agricultural development approach; and (ii) by the Federal
and State Governments, to relinquish a significant measure of political control by
empowering rural communities and, more importantly, by acknowledging the ability of the
rural poor to establish their own priorities and make decisions. Nevertheless, community-
based development is not a "magic bullet" for poverty reduction in the Northeast, which is
why the Bank, having launched a significant process with measurable impact on
beneficiaries, is now turning its attention to other major constraints in the sector.
32.   Among the project-specific findings were the following. FUMAC proved more
effective than PAC. This was demonstrated in greater participation and transparency,
larger numbers of subprojects per municipality; more beneficiaries overall; and lower cost
both per subproject and per beneficiary. While FUMAC has proven capable of eroding
the traditional "clientelism" of the Northeast, it cannot alone transform long-standing
political, economic and social patterns. Organized communities can influence the
allocation and use of municipal financial resources, and NGOs can provide vital project
services and help organized communities to maximize project benefits. The environmental
impact of the generally small-scale PAC and FUMAC subprojects was insignificant but
certain subprojects, e.g., manioc mills, are likely to have environmental side-effects
needing attention. Finally, modifications designed to address identified shortcomings have
been incorporated into the new RPAP. States and municipalities have proven willing to
make needed corrections (Part I, paras. 99-1 10).
33.   Future Operations. There was no legal requirement for the four states to prepare
a plan for future operations, and no plans were prepared (except for one set of activities in
Bahia). The same is true for monitoring of future operations. Nevertheless, prospects for
maximizing project benefits appear good. The States and their Governors are supporting
policies and actions which promote decentralized decision-making and management.
Communities have demonstrated their willingness to operate and maintain their
investments responsibly. Further, given the radical change in approach to rural poverty



-xi -
alleviation, there is considerable interest in the Bank, in Brazil and elsewhere, to track the
evolution and impact of these projects. In the case of Bahia, the State has prepared an
action plan and committed funds for the future operations and sustainability of the Pascoal
Limoeiro and Itapera irrigation subprojects, initiated pre-reformulation (Part I, paras. 70-
71).
34.   Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience, are as
follows:
(a)   Even the best-designed RD projects will falter under severe macro-
economic and fiscal pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable
to agriculture;
(b)   Project design should anticipate and be sufficiently flexible to permit, and
project staff should be alert to the potential need to undertake, significant
changes of course or complete reformulation if necessary, within a
reasonable timeframe;
(c)   The reformulated projects were scaled up from a successful pilot
experience (APCR), further refined by incorporating wider experiences.
They in turn piloted a more progressive mechanism (FUMAC), with
significant impact. The new RPAP projects take this further, piloting
FUMAC-P as a vehicle for greater local control of budget resources;
(d)   Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant
approach has contributed to sustainable local development in the four
states;
(e)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making to state and
local government and beneficiaries improves project administration and
subproject quality. This process needs clearly-defined operational
incentives and penalties to counter departures from project guidelines.
Beneficiary participation in subproject selection, implementation,
financing and supervision generates "ownership", sound O&M, quality
investments, cost savings and local accountability. Vigilance and
appropriate controls are needed to prevent political interference in the
participatory process;
(f)    Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
selection; and be accompanied by well-designed publicity campaigns
which ensure transparency and a proper knowledge of program/project
objectives, content and access, bolster poverty targeting;



- xli -
(g)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and when TA is provided throughout the subproject cycle;
(h)   Successful community-based investment requires quality technical
assistance throughout the subproject cycle, specifically for: improving
the outcome of productive subprojects; community mobilization and
organization; association planning, management and financial skills
development; marketing strategies; and institutional development of the
TU; "on-the-job" training for communities is equally valuable but not risk-
free; sourcing TA in rural areas needs creativity;
(i)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, and involve local entities closest to the
communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(j)    Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability; their
inherent social objectives in a poverty context should not imply "softer"
analysis of their feasibility, cost-effectiveness and rates of return;
(k)   Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for assessments of the economic and financial rates of
return on a range of productive subprojects; and accessible,
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation improves subproject
assessment, targeting and efficiency and is an essential planning and
management tool;
(I)    Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, prevents
faulty design and reduces processing bottlenecks;
(m)   Dissemination of "best practices" such as the collaboration with NGOs
in Rio Grande do Norte through information exchanges among TUs, at
training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning and reward
innovation; and
(n)   Graduation of some communities may be necessary as the aggregate
benefits of several subprojects equip them to leverage fands from other
sources; the pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the
need for a carefully crafted strategy based on defining practical, operational
ways of identifying communities which are close to achieving this status
(Part I, para. 11 1).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
SERGIPE, RIO GRANDE DO NORTE, BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2761-BR, 2763-BR, 2524-BR and 2523-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    The Northeastern region of Brazil comprises nine states1 and the northern, semi-
arid zone of the central State of Minas Gerais, totaling about 1.7 million km2. The
Northeast has long been the single largest regional concentration of rural poverty in Latin
America. In the mid-1980s when the ten projects under the Northeast Rural Development
Program were appraised -- projects in the States of Bahia, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte
and Sergipe are assessed in this report -- more than one-third of all Brazilians living in
poverty, and almost two-thirds of the rural poor, were living in the Northeast. The region
has absorbed an immense amount of budget resources over several decades in the quest
for solutions to its persistent poverty and under-development. A combination of
geographic, economic and political factors, reflected in the harsh climate and poor natural
resource base, inequitable land tenure and distribution, a traditional, paternalistic culture,
illiteracy, and the lack of basic infrastructure and services, explains the predicament of the
rural poor. Rural incomes are generally low and highly variable. Periodic or permanent
outmigration of large numbers of the rural poor to bigger centers in the Northeast or the
South, is common.
2.    Profile of the States Reviewed. Bahia is the largest state in the Northeast in
terms of both area (560,000 km2) and population (9.5 million at the outset of the NRDP,
and 11.9 million today), and contains the most extensive semi-arid zone in the region.
Close to 70% of the state - chiefly the central and northern regions - falls within the
Northeast "drought polygon". At the time of project appraisal, the rural urban population
was divided roughly 50/50, with urban centers growing rapidly due to poverty- and
drought-induced rural migration. Some 660,000 rural families, or about 70% of Bahia's
rural population, had an annual income below the relative poverty line, determined at the
time of appraisal to be about US$330 per capita.
The States of Bahia, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe, Maranhao, Piaui, Paraiba,
Pernambuco and Alagoas



-2 -
3.    With a total area of about 148,000 km2, Ceari is the fourth largest state in the
Northeast. Rainfall varies from about 1600 mm in the few, fertile highlands to about 660
mm in the drought-prone semi-arid zone which covers the major part of the state, and
where soils are of medium and low fertility. At the time of project appraisal, the
population of some 5.3 million was about 47% rural, with high rates of malnutrition, infant
mortality and illiteracy and a per capita income among the lowest in the region. As in the
other three states reviewed, small farmers, lacking adequate technology and other inputs,
were producing low-yield crops incapable of generating even minimal working capital.
4.    With an area of only 22,000 kM2, Sergipe is Brazil's smallest state. Three broad
areas define the state: the coast, which has moderate temperatures and rainfall and
plentiful underground water; the inland semi-humid area with variable rainfall; and the
semi-arid zone, about 47% of the state, which constitutes part of the "drought polygon"
and where subsistence farming predominates. The population of almost 1.3 million at the
time of appraisal, was about 46% rural. Rural poverty in Sergipe, as in the other three
states under review, is closely linked to agro-climatic conditions, the poor natural resource
base and skewed farm size distribution. While per capita income overall at the time was
about US$ 1,100 (1980), one of the highest in the Northeast, most of the rural population
earned less than the relative poverty level of about US$330.
5.    Rio Grande do Norte, with an area of 53,000 km2, is one of Brazil's smallest
states. Rainfall ranges from over 1400 mm in coastal areas to less than 500 mm in the
semi-arid regions. Barely one-fifth of the state is suitable for cropping, soil quality is
highly variable and erosion widespread. At the time of NRDP appraisal the state had a
population of around 2.0 million, about 42% of which was rural. As in the other three
states under review, rural outmigration had progressively enlarged the urban population
and diminished the proportion of the work force engaged in agriculture. At the time of
project appraisal, rural incomes averaged about US$200 per capita/year and the incidence
of illiteracy, infant mortality, waterborne diseases and malnutrition was widespread.
6.    Bank Support to the Northeast. Rural development of the Brazilian Northeast,
focusing on poor farm families, has been assisted through Bank projects since the mid-
1970s. The strategy and design of these projects have changed over time, building on the
lessons of experience. The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) launched in
the mid-1980s, had a 15-year horizon and sought to alleviate poverty among the rural
poor (mainly small farmers). It was one important element in a larger package of
Federally-funded sectoral programs known as Projeto Nordeste, designed to improve
regional socio-economic conditions through interactive, complementary effects across
sectors.2 The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states that it was based on a broad regional
policy framework, a set of sub-sectoral guidelines, and multi-year state rural investment
plans. It was consistent with the new rural development strategy for the Northeast initiated
2.    Projeto Nordeste was never intended to be limited to the agricultural sector or to alleviating rural
poverty As it turned out however, NRDP was one of the very few programs in Projeto Nordeste
to actually be implemented



-3 -
in 1982 and acknowledged that in aggregate, the special programs, sectoral projects and
federal irrigation projects up till that time, had had little impact on rural poverty.
Project Objectives and Design under the Original NRDP
7.    Objectives. The main objectives were to: (i) increase regional agricultural
production and productivity; (ii) generate employment for low-income farm families; (iii)
increase the states' capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers; and
(iv) promote water resource development and technology generation and diffusion to
reduce small farmers' vulnerability to recurrent drought. The NRDP was also intended to
strengthen SUDENE (Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast) to
regionally coordinate, monitor and evaluate the NRDP, promote regional agricultural
research appropriate for small farmers, and strengthen the states' capacity to deliver
agricultural services.
8.    Components. All ten projects of the NRDP were virtually identical (except for
Sergipe and Bahia). Project objectives would be achieved through seven components: (i)
water resources development, including irrigation and studies; (ii) agricultural research
and basic seed production; (iii) agricultural extension for basic food and commercial crops,
small livestock and social forestry; (iv) agricultural credit, for investments in crop and
livestock production and on-farm water resource development; (v) marketing services,
including training; (vi) support to small rural communities (apoyo aspequenas
comunidades rurais - APCR), to promote small farmer mobilization and participation,
finance small rural investments by farmer groups for production, processing and rural
infrastructure, create employment and foster accountability of public agencies; and (vii)
project administration. In addition to state-specific components, the Sergipe project
included regional coordination and administration and regional research components, the
former implemented by SUDENE and the latter by the regional Agricultural Research
Center for the Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA); and the Bahia project included a regional
research component under the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA).
9.    Design and Strategy. Hindsight and current practice tend to color assessments
of these projects at entry. They were developed and appraised under a centralized military
government in which public agencies controlled most development activity. Concepts like
participation, organization and decentralization entailed political difficulties in the Brazil of
this period, had yet to enter the Bank's lexicon and were largely experimental in project
design (e.g., the Latin American social funds, and the APCR itself). Even so, there was a
conscious attempt to innovate: greater flexibility, accountability from below, more
narrowly-focused activities, and improved planning and coordination, were ingredients
believed likely to improve the outcomes of these projects.
10.   This signaled change but did not go far enough. Project objectives still depended
on the synergy between many complementary activities dependent in turn, on efficient
systems of service delivery, and effective coordination between numerous agencies and
several layers of the Brazilian govemment. The weaknesses of such a framework had
undermined previous programs. The preparation file record indicates that warnings were



-4 -
sounded and questions raised about: the capacity of state and regional agencies to cope
financially and institutionally with ten new IRD projects; the dismal record of credit lines
under previous projects; the size of the recurrent costs portion of total project costs;3
agricultural area and production assumptions, especially in the Bahia and Ceara projects,
implying substantial changes in small farmers' behavior without discussion of how this
would occur; and, whether the beneficiaries could realize economic benefits within a
reasonable timeframe.
11.   The overall design was not sufficiently participatory even though the NRDP was
considered groundbreaking at inception because of features permitting and requiring
beneficiary participation (e.g., APCR, and state-level regional committees with rural union
and NGO participation). In fact, apart from APCR and water supply activities, there was
little room for beneficiaries to express their needs and influence the shape and outcome of
project activities.
12.   Despite assertions that NRDP project execution and expected benefits were not
directly dependent on other sub-sectoral projects in the short-term, nevertheless, the
SARs are clear that increased access to land was essential for sustained rural development
in the Northeast and would increase the expected impact and benefits of the four projects.
Assurances were obtained from all four states, that specified amounts of land would be
available for distribution to project beneficiaries, by target dates, via the complementary
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR). Further, the
implications of the other projects and programs under Projeto Nordeste not materializing
to provide the desired interactive effects with the NRDP, was not given adequate
attention.
13.   The Bank was satisfied that potential counterpart funding delays and shortfalls
would be reduced through provisions for new channels and procedures, the merging of
special rural programs and the addition of FINSOCIAL (Social Investment Fund)
resources. Further, the Federal government in 1986 had inter alia, established an ad-hoc
inter-departmental working group in Brasilia to resolve the delays in the flow of Federal
funds to the Northeast project units. The focus on a few key production constraints to
concentrate funds on activities which provided direct benefits, the regional scope of the
NRDP, and broad support for the program among senior government officials and local
leaders, were also expected to reduce the risk.
14.   However, the erratic counterpart funding situation which emerged revealed several
problems: states' total dependence on the effective and timely release by the Federal
Government of both counterpart and loan funds (an aspect of design which was not
optional at the time of appraisal); the complexity of the bureaucratic machinery for release
of funds; annual budget allocations below appraisal estimates, vulnerable to inflation and
to over-control by SUDENE; and, cumbersome accounting systems and procedures.
Memorandum, October 26, 1986 Recurrent costs would be "amply covered by increased tax
revenues arising from the projects' incremental agricultural production"



-5 -
15.   The macro-economic and policy context, perhaps the dominant factor affecting
project implementation in all four states, was mentioned only obliquely in the SARs. The
Northeast's abundant supply of cheap labor made it vulnerable to an over-valued exchange
rate, while the inflationary environment was bound to affect the credit component.
Planned increases in agricultural production and productivity were foiled by policies which
penalized agriculture -- exchange rate over-valuation reduced returns to agricultural
exports, tariff protection increased the cost of inputs, and administered prices for farm
produce, below market levels, depressed returns to farmers.4
16.   As documented in the Mid-Term Review of the NRDP (1991), the concept
envisaged various components being implemented simultaneously through different state
agencies, with their impact being the increased production and income of beneficiaries in a
particular area. Not all components would benefit all small farmers; rather, a package of
tailored, complementary actions was targeted at identified groups. Such an approach
assumed relatively sophisticated joint planning and design of "instruments" for a given
group and strong coordination during implementation. However, the state Technical
Units (TU) lacked the political strength to control the often quite powerful executing
agencies and thus project components devolved to independent sub-programs of the
agencies, which tailored work programs to their own interests, not those of the projects.
17.   The NRDP recognized from the outset that detailed operational planning including
monitorable goals was needed, to prevent dispersion and ensure coordination of activities.
However, while promising results were obtained in some states with a "programming by
objectives" approach, in general, objectives were not translated into specific area and
group targets for desired outputs and while this was intended to provide flexibility over
time, there was no concrete and meaningful way of measuring progress or impact. The
executing agencies and SUDENE clung to the traditional component approach, and
resisted detailed planning and programming for sub-areas and sub-groups.'
18.   The beneficiary population of "small farmers" targeted was quite heterogeneous, in
terms of land size, aspirations, needs and capacities. Program design admitted that
different components would apply to different groups of small farmers. In practice, and in
the absence of detailed operational planning, the concept of differentiated targeting of
beneficiaries and components was unworkable and was ignored.6 Differentiation of
overall project design between states would have been prudent. The Program adopted a
homogeneous approach to the projects, not calibrating them sufficiently to the
Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED
1991
NRDP, Mid-Term Review, November 1991
Ibid



-6 -
institutional, political and agronomic environment in each state, with projects constructed
from a menu of financeable activities.7
19.   The rural credit component encountered problems stemming from its design:
participating banks were reluctant to contribute their own funds to the Program as
required due to their high opportunity cost; state government banks could not participate
because budget regulations prevented them from handling non-repayable (subsidy) funds;
the credit component was relatively isolated from the other components and there was
little collaboration between the banks and the TUs on credit activities; and farmers were,
not surprisingly, unwilling to incur debt without knowing what their repayments would be,
since outstanding balances would be adjusted for inflation and they feared the adjustments
would exceed their product price increases in spite of the 30% subsidy. Project personnel
appear to have not understood, and did not tell farmers, that the credit terms remained
fairly attractive even under the circumstances.8
20.   The Loans. Loans totaling US$415.7 million (about 50% of the NRDP total) and
financing 50% of project cost net of taxes, were made to the States of Bahia, Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte and Sergipe to benefit some 255,300 small farm families, about 45% of
the NRDP target population (some 568,000 small farm families). Projects were to be
implemented over a period of about eight years. While it is technically true that most
project activities were implemented by state agencies, not federal, the Federal Government
both in Brasilia and through its regional agency SUDENE, exercised dominant control
over these projects, coordinating the program, approving annual operating plans and
budgets, providing counterpart funds and monitoring and evaluation services. Delayed
approval of budgets, in turn, delayed implementation and reduced project purchasing
power due to the inflation effects.
Reformulation of the NRDP
21.   Despite successful experiences in different States and activities, the original NRDP
foundered in all ten states and did not achieve its basic objectives. The fundamental
problem was the escalating macro-economic and fiscal crisis in Brazil and the
incompatibility of the projects' centralized structure and administrative arrangements with
the rapidly changing political, economic and social context. This was borne out by a
comprehensive Mid-Term Review (1991) and an OED study,9 which prompted an
agreement between the Bank and Borrower to reformulate the Program, a protracted
process which lasted until 1993.
7
Dynamics of Rural Development in Northeast Brazil: New Lessons from Old Projects, OED,
December 16, 1991
8     Ibid
Ibid



-7 -
22.   The focus changed from rural/agricultural development, with the emphasis on
small farmers and agricultural production, to rural poverty alleviation, emphasizing poor
rural communities and varied productive, infrastructure and social investments. The
comparatively successful APCR community-based investment component was the starting
point for the complete re-design of the Program to reflect the growing sentiment in Brazil
for decentralization, transparency, accountability and local empowerment.10
23.   New Objectives. These were to: (i) provide basic social and economic
infrastructure, and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor
(not only small farmers); (ii) support rural community groups in identifying, planning and
implementing their own subprojects; and (iii) involve state governments more directly in
decision-making and financing the Program. While maintaining the fundamental program
objectives albeit in different form, both Bank and Borrower saw the reformulated NRDP
as part of a policy of compensatory actions responding to an emergency, i.e., the
devastating impact on the rural poor of economic and climatic crises and macro-economic
and fiscal adjustment (SUDENE 1996).
24.   The reformulation process had two distinct phases. The first, protracted and
'painful" phase started in June 1990 and culminated in the formal re-design of the Sergipe
project (Ln.2523-BR) effective in early 1992. Expecting replication of the Sergipe model
in all other nine states, most of the original state-executed project components were
discontinued from June to November, 1992 (e.g., water resource development,
agricultural research, seed production, extension, credit, marketing services and the APCR
component). Remaining funds would be allocated to productive"1 investment subprojects
to be executed by beneficiary communities. These were larger-scale investments involving
small farmers from several communities and managed by "apex" beneficiary organizations.
They were largely residual components from the earlier phase of the projects and included
only subprojects at a relatively advanced stage of preparation or implementation. 12
25.   From November 1992 onwards, reformulation entered its second phase."3 The
emphasis shifted markedly towards further decentralization (towards the states,
municipalities and communities), transparency in funds allocation and greater beneficiary
control over project identification and implementation. Drawing upon the successful
APCR component and similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, the NRDP was
converted into a community-based development program, dropping all components
targeting agricultural production, and incorporating new features: (i) State as opposed to
10.    Study of Popular Participation in the Northeast, C Kottak and A Costa, University of Michigan,
February 7, 1994
The emphasis was still agricultural production and income generation
12.    Kottak and Costa:, Ibid
13.    The Solidaridad program in Mexico was an important influence. A study tour to Mexico,
sponsored by the Bank, was a critical step in gaining acceptance for the new approach and
fostering Brazilian ownership of the reformulation.



-8 -
Federal, responsibility for providing counterpart funds; (ii) streamlined flow of funds to
the States by the National Treasury, through the Ministry of Rural Integration, without
having to go through SUDENE, whose role was reduced; and (iii) two new programs:
State Community Schemes (PAC) and Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). 14
26.   The Mechanism. The re-designed projects provided matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by those groups as
priority investments for community well-being. Grants (with a community contribution of
10-20% depending on the type of subproject, to enhance "ownership") were justified as
permitting access of the poorest to resources for needed facilities and services without
their having to repay at high nominal interest rates.
27.   Community subprojects would be screened, approved and implemented through
two different mechanisms: (i) State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural
communities submitted their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Technical Unit (TU) which, screened, approved (on a first-come, first-served basis) and
released funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and (ii) Pilot
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities were presented to project Municipal Councils for review.15
The Councils, composed of community members, local government representatives and
members of civil society, promoted local consensus-building on priority needs through
open "town meetings", and screened and submitted subprojects to the State (TU) for
approval and financing. A municipality participating in FUMAC could not have PAC, nor
was it necessary to have had PAC in order adopt FUMAC -- in this sense, the system was
not graduative. FUMAC is a more progressive model than PAC and the Bank has always
pushed for its expansion.
28.   Decision-making and implementation devolved to the municipalities and
communities, the state governments were more directly involved in financing and
administration, and the responsibilities of public agencies were reduced. An action plan,
translated into a set of monitorable indicators, was agreed with each state. Eligibility for
project benefits included community associations and cooperatives which might include
small farmers, artisans and fishermen, living in communities with less than 7,500 persons
or district centers with less than 5,000 inhabitants. Subproject cost could not exceed
US$40,000 equivalent, including community contributions. Beneficiaries had (under
Brazilian law) to legally register as associations in order to receive public funds, had to
accept full liability through an agreement with the TU for O&M of the investment, and
had to make cash or kind contributions of at least 10% of subproject cost.
29.   These two programs became the core of the reformulated NRDP. All PAC and
FUMAC subprojects were ultimately approved by the State TU and operated under the
14.    Memorandum June 29, 1994.
Project Municipal Councils are a separate entity from the municipal councils arising out of the
normal political process.



-9 -
same ground rules. The basic difference was that FUMAC directly involved the
municipality whose role it was to mobilize and organize communities and help them to
define priorities. This evolved over time to the point where the FUMAC Municipal
Councils, not the TUs, approved community subprojects. With certain modifications
(including a new, pilot version of FUMAC further decentralizing resource allocation and
control), this remains the model for projects under the new Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program (RPAP) in the Brazilian Northeast.
30.   The reformulated Program became effective on September 28, 1993, and became
operational in all ten Northeast states (Sergipe was reformulated a second time to conform
to the new model) by January 1994. Due to the increased focus on poverty alleviation and
conforming to a previous amendment to the Sergipe project, overall funding was increased
from 50% to 60% of project cost, net of taxes. At the time the amendments were
submitted to the Board, the ten loans were 41% disbursed and a further 11% committed,
leaving an unused balance of US$398.0 million, of which US$235.2 million (59%)
represented the four states reviewed.
Achievement of Project Objectives
31.   It is generally agreed that prior to 1993, the projects in Sergipe, Rio Grande do
Norte, Bahia and Ceara were not achieving their objectives, in common with the rest of
the states under the NRDP. This changed following project reformulation. Project
achievements are summarized below.'6
32.   Socio-Economic Benefits for the Rural Poor. Community-based development
reached its intended beneficiaries, including the landless, generating economic growth and
better quality of life for large numbers of rural poor in each of the four states. Increased
income and employment opportunities for diverse family members including women are
emerging, raising at times remarkably, the living standards of beneficiary families. This
trend is expected to gain momentum as productive subprojects, most of which are fairly
recently implemented, consolidate and mature." Capital accumulation has started at both
the local and household levels, fostering, inter alia, the sustainability not provided by
previous development efforts in the Northeast. Beneficiaries saw a high proportion of
project funds (about 93%, compared to about 30% before) and subproject benefits, in
Evaluations of the reformulated NRDP include the following: World Bank/FAO, "The
Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation, February 1995; World Bank/FAO, "NRDP:
Performance and Evaluation", March 1996; University of Michigan, "Baseline and Popular
Participation Study" initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, followed by a community impact
evaluation in July-October 1994; studies under the "ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal
Development in Semi-Arid Areas of the Northeast"; an evaluation of NRDP commissioned in
1994 by the Federal Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; MIT
working draft for the World Bank Brazil Implementation Commission, February 1996; and
Superintendency for the Northeast (SUDENE) Borrower Completion Report on the NRDP, 1996.
Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FA0,
March 14, 1996.



- 10-
general, remained with targeted populations. Investments satisfied priority needs and are
of good or satisfactory quality. Consequently, poor communities are willing to share the
costs of investments, and to operate and maintain them. Multiplier effects on local
economies are evident and there are early signs that migration has slowed. Communities
with project-funded investments recovered faster from the 1993 drought and used their
land more intensively. In the poorest municipalities (and in the States of Sergipe and Rio
Grande do Norte in particular), PAC and FUMAC were the main, and often the only
source of funding for rural infrastructure, productive and social investments.
33.   Support for Community Empowerment. The states intensified efforts to train
and mobilize municipalities and community associations, specifically to incorporate them
into the FUMAC program which stresses participation, transparency, and local control
over decision-making and subproject implementation. Without doubt, participation in the
reformulated projects has had sustainable political effects. The FUMAC municipal
councils are a viable means of empowering the rural poor. The now numerous community
associations congregate many voters, and politicians are aware of their influence. Further,
the State Technical Units have developed standard designs for a broad range of
subprojects to simplify preparation, and established technical and cost standards to foster
quality and sustainability. The formal involvement of NGOs in the provision of technical
assistance and monitoring services in Rio Grande do Norte was an important ingredient in
that State's successful experience and a model for other states seeking to strengthen these
services.
34.   Involvement of State Governments in the Program. The projects have
attracted strong political support from the States and municipalities. Aside from their
political benefits, they are also valued as a supplementary resource (and possibly the only
assured one) for investment in basic community needs; as representing potential,
significant cost-savings (on average, 30%-40%) on infrastructure and water supply put in
by public agencies; and, as generating tax revenue for State and Municipal governments
from the marketing of productive outputs.18 Further, they have prompted more rapid and
efficient provision of services by the state project units and participating public
enterprises, e.g., electricity and water (services commonly requested by communities), in
response to communities prepared to be more demanding. State governments have
provided counterpart funds more promptly, accelerating disbursements -- a dramatic break
from past performance -- and municipalities have been willing (and urged) to share the
counterpart funding burden with the States, seeking in return, greater accountability and
cost-effectiveness from state governments.19
18~  The 25 cashew nut processing subprojects financed to date in Rio Grande do Norte, for example,
are estimated to generate about US$2.2 million per year in tax revenue, boosted by the export
value of cashew nut and the higher rate of taxation (17% and 12% for state and national markets,
respectively) on processed cashew nut.
World Bank Policy Research Paper No 1498, August 1995.



Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Projects
35.   State Performance Prior to Reformulation. Major policy changes and economic
uncertainties created a climate in which these projects could not be implemented as
originally planned. Several critical factors had an adverse impact on the projects in all
four states. First, rising fiscal deficits and macro-economic distortions severely limited
Federal capacity to invest and to provide counterpart funding for the projects, and caused
the deterioration of public agencies responsible for project investment and services
delivery. Meanwhile, coordination between the numerous public agencies responsible for
implementation, especially with irregular funding, was (as always) difficult to achieve, and
too high a proportion of project funds supported recurrent expenditures.
36.   Second, significant changes in the political economy of Brazil entailed in the new
Constitution of 1988 saw power and fiscal resources shift from the Federal level to the
states and localities, which further impaired the Federal Government's ability (and
willingness) to fund many existing programs. However, the design of project decision-
making, administrative and financing arrangements, which largely pre-dated these changes,
remained centralized at the Federal level, and the provision of services rooted in public
agencies when support was shifting towards a greater role for the private sector. As part
of the overall process of change, successive reforms abolished key Federal agencies,
contributing to the uncertainties delaying implementation of the projects.
37.   Third, liberalization of agricultural marketing and trade policies resulted in record
harvests and the perception that agriculture was resilient to the unfavorable
macroeconomic context, causing longer-term sectoral programs such as land reform and
rural development to lose priority in funding decisions. However, policy-makers were
forced to re-examine this stance when continued instability caused a marked decline in the
sector from 1990. Further, the failure of most component programs of Projeto Nordeste
to materialize focused attention on the NRDP as the pivotal poverty alleviation strategy,
creating unrealistic expectations, and criticism of its design and implementation.
38.   Beneficiary participation, an innovative feature of NRDP project design and
philosophy, was steadily eroded as executing agencies, confronting increasingly erratic
funding for these projects, were reluctant to engage in participatory planning. Investments
frequently deviated from beneficiary priorities and thus neither the beneficiaries, nor the
states, felt much sense of ownership or obligation to maintain them. Multiple components
tended to serve different target groups without being mutually reinforcing, pulverizing
resources and impact, while measures to foil the access of large farmers to project benefits
were ineffective. 20
39.   The Mid-Term Review of 1991 revealed that the implementation performance
among projects varied less than among project components, i.e., in addition to major
themes affecting all the projects, component-specific problems were important
20    Memorandum, May 28, 1993.



- 12 -
contributing factors in the delays experienced Program-wide.21 These included: the
states' limited capacity to plan and implement irrigation development ventures;
institutional problems in agricultural extension; and virtual paralysis of the agricultural
credit program in each state. Performance problems relating to the choice of investments
and their sustainability were also experienced in irrigation, water supply and in the APCR
component. Finally, the complementary land tenure improvement program fell short of its
targets because of continuing institutional and policy struggles, and this hindered rational
planning and implementation under the NRDP projects. However, Rio Grande do Norte
stands out for exceeding, by a wide margin, its goal for the number of families settled on
land acquired under that project. Results of individual state project implementation up to
reformulation are contained in Table 5.A.
40.   The APCR Component. The APCR component (and its related water supply
component) supporting small community investments based on community planning,
organization and out-sourcing of needed technical expertise, became the leading edge of
the NRDP in each state. Still evolving and by no means trouble-free, the APCR
acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, its poverty alleviation impact was
positive, the cost per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far
exceeded those of other components. The project record conveys the relative dynamism
of this component from Program start-up.
41.   Such was not the case with components which relied heavily on public sector
implementation -- extension, credit, research and irrigation schemes. These showed the
worst delays, notwithstanding considerable variation state to state based on local
circumstances. A high proportion of their resources financed recurrent costs, and their
poverty impact was slight. Project administration by the Federal Government and the
states continued, as in previous programs, to absorb a high proportion of loan funds
relative to actual investments.
42.   State Performance Since Reformulation. Disbursements accelerated under the
reformulated projects. The release of Loan funds by the Federal Government was
intermittently delayed but the situation improved markedly from mid-1995 after new state
governments addressed the administrative and political constraints responsible. Bahia,
Sergipe and Ceara were able to cover 100% of the municipalities they had slated for
inclusion, while 86% were covered in Rio Grande do Norte. Notably, beneficiary
coverage under the reformulated projects in all four states exceeded targets set at
reformulation and under the original projects.
43.   Initial promotional campaigns by the TUs generated a tremendous response by the
communities, presenting a challenge for the limited cohort of technical agents in each
state. Once subproject proposals were approved, completion took about four months.
21    Regional activities were controlled by Federal agencies as follows: production-oriented research
(EMBRAPA and CPATSA); overall policy and planning responsibility and regional coordination
of the NRDP (SUDENE); and land-related actions, under a separate, complementary project
(INCRA).



- 13 -
Lags in all four states between approval and completion derived mainly from TUs lacking
funds (loan and counterpart) immediately available to transfer to the communities.
44.   Overall, basic and social infrastructure subprojects predominated in Sergipe and
Bahia, while productive subprojects were prioritized in Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte.
The diversity of subprojects demanded -- about 120 different types whose relative
importance varied state to state -- illustrates the deprivations of rural poverty. Certain
kinds predominated: (i) in infrastructure -- rural water supply and electrification; (ii) in
productive -- tractors for communal use, manioc flour mills, small-scale irrigation,
clothesmaking, cashew nut processing (typical of Rio Grande do Norte) and dairying; and
(iii) among social subprojects -- health-related house improvement, latrines, school
rehabilitation and day care centers. Proposals for productive subprojects surged in 1995,
the result of poor communities prioritizing economic activity and capital formation.
45.   Community choices were influenced in several ways, depending on the state and
the period. In Bahia and Sergipe for example, especially in the period immediately
following reformulation and less so as the projects evolved, elected state and municipal
officials acted as intermediaries between the communities and state project units. Many
mayors for example, promoted the creation of associations to present proposals which
were essentially municipal initiatives. In some cases, the resulting subprojects did not
reflect true community priorities and certainly the participatory, organizational element
was weak in these cases. However, in the case of Bahia for example, whose performance
in getting funds out to the communities was impressive and a dramatic break with the past,
the benefits of mayoral involvement are apparent in the positive impact on beneficiary
communities. It is also clear that acceptance of both the concept and practice of
community-based development is an evolutionary process, not afait accompli from the
moment of its introduction.
46.   Evaluations suggest that communities' inability to influence the process stemmed
from having inadequate information about the process itself and eligible subprojects.
Information campaigns were sometimes less effective than direct communication between
political leaders (who tended to hear about the projects first), and the communities. In
such cases, the choice of subprojects tended to be skewed by state policies favoring
certain investments, e.g., productive subprojects in Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte or
water supply in Sergipe. Nevertheless, in many of these cases, the participation of local
political leaders was a positive development and important for the sustainability of
decentralized implementation. The main issue is the need to curb breakdowns in
transparency which can lead to negative political influence.22 Other influences on
communities' selections included observing which subprojects in neighbouring
communities tended to be approved; and the apparent biases of technicians in the project
units (in Bahia, against social subprojects23 and in Sergipe and Ceara, against tractors24).
22    Memorandum, April 9, 1996 and MIT evaluation.
23.    The Bahia State Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), in its comments on the Bank's draft ICR, states
that there was not bias per se, but that demand for social subprojects was low due to communities
being able to satisfy social needs through other financing sources and programs, including Bank-



- 14 -
Measures were taken during project implementation to improve information availability
and dissemination, and this is being stressed in the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects
in the Northeast.
47.   The average cost of subprojects, both PAC and FUMAC, significantly exceeded
the ten-state average in Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe, but was markedly lower
in Bahia (see Part II, Table 14). There were sharp variations between the four states in
the cost of similar investments due to differences in design and technical specifications.
For many commonly-requested types of subprojects, the cost tended to be lower in Bahia
(Part II, Table 14): a manioc flour mill cost around US$18,700 in Rio Grande do Norte
but only US$7,400 in Bahia; similarly, a simplified water supply system cost US$30,000 in
Sergipe, US$17,000 in Rio Grande do Norte and about US$14,000 in Bahia. A resume of
state performance follows.
48.   Bahia. Bahia's performance improved remarkably after reformulation and the
project achieved its development objectives. State counterpart funding was both timely
and adequate. Subproject demand was exceptionally strong, far outstripping other
Northeastern states (Bahia also being the largest state). Some 14,076 subprojects were at
various stages of processing at the Closing Date, far more than the loan and respective
counterpart funding could finance. Under the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
(Loan 3917-BR), all subproject proposals remaining in the pipeline would be re-submitted
by the communities for financing.
49.   The project financed 2,701 subprojects of which 2,297 were PAC (85%) and 404
FUMAC (15%), and benefited some 380,350 rural beneficiaries in 264 municipalities,
more than five times the number anticipated at reformulation (and vastly exceeding
numbers reached under the project, pre-reformulation). Of these subprojects, some 59%
represented small rural infrastructure, 36% were productive ventures and 5% were social
investments. In addition, five large-scale subprojects, already existing before
reformulation, resulted in the irrigation of 1,438 ha; and the construction of 242 small
dams and 1,737 home cisterns (post-reformulation) reached a further 2,430 rural
beneficiaries. The combined impact has been a measurable and visible improvement in
quality of life and well-being, and increased income and employment opportunities.
50.   At the request of the Federal Government, and due to the delayed project
implementation caused by lack of counterpart funding, a massive, partial cancellation of
financed projects with the Federal Government SEPLAN also mentions a joint program,
financed by the NRDP and the National Health Foundation, to combat Chagas disease through
improvements to some 454 houses in 4 municipalities.
24.    The Sergipe State Technical Unit (PRONESE) in its comments on the draft ICR, explains the
bias against tractor subprojects as being due to their observed lack of sustainability in earlier
cases Today, such subprojects have strict requirements for beneficiary organization, regulations
concerning their use and maintenance, and they are still seen as having special operational
difficulties and limitations.



- 15 -
US$60.0 million occurred in 1994. Final disbursement totaled US$107.2 million and
cancellation of US$3.8 million was effected on November 12, 1996.
51.   Ceara. By the Closing Date, the project had financed 3,025 subprojects, some
62% more than the goal established at reformulation and the highest number among the
four states (and indeed, of the whole Program). This performance resulted from: (i) the
priority assigned to the project by a new Governor, reflected in the prompt release of
counterpart funds; (ii) the administrative arrangements agreed with the Bank requiring all
concerned agencies to fully support the project in the field; (iii) the strengthening of the
TU; (iv) the state administration's decentralized development strategy and planning which
prioritized participatory decision-making; and, (v) the focus of public policy on social
conditions and poverty alleviation.
52.   Of the completed subprojects, 2,695 (89%) were financed under PAC and 330
(11%) under FUMAC. Infrastructure subprojects dominated (56%) followed by
productive (39%) and social (5%). The project benefited about 178,800 families in 2,962
rural communities and 176 municipalities. As reported in the Bank/FAO evaluation of
1995, improved beneficiary quality of life was visible in the field and the 45% of
subprojects which were productive were accompanied by improved income and
employment opportunities. The FUMAC approach was pushed hard by the TU and
expanded substantially.
53.   Disbursement was satisfactory, and State counterpart funding performance was
good in the post-reformulation period. At the time of refornulation, Ceara had disbursed
US$45.1 million of the original loan amount of US$122.0 million. The Federal
Government requested a partial cancellation of US$30.0 million in December 1994 for the
same reasons as Bahia. Final disbursement amounted to US$84.86 million and
cancellation of US$7.14 million was made on November 12, 1996.
54.   Sergipe. The State's disbursement performance both under the original and the
reformulated NRDP was among the best of the Program. State counterpart was provided
efficiently. Of the original loan amount of US$61.3 million, almost US$40.0 million had
been disbursed by the time of reformulation in 1993. The balance of the loan, with the
exception of a partial cancellation of US$1.0 million, was fully disbursed.
55.   The commitment of the State Government and the long experience of the TU with
rural development, explain project success. Subproject approval and completion rates
were high. The TU received 1,565 community proposals post-reformulation, of which
1,347 were approved and 600 were financed -- of which PAC 83.5% and FUMAC 16.5%
--benefiting some 79,000 rural families. The State's loan balance was insufficient to
finance the full 747 subprojects remaining and they were held over for financing under the
new project (Loan 3919-BR).
56.   Of the subprojects financed, 398 (about 66%) were small community infrastructure
(rural electrification, water supply, street paving), 80 (about 13%) were productive
subprojects (tractors, manioc flour mills and small irrigation schemes) and 122 (some



- 16 -
20%) were social subprojects (house improvements, schooling and health posts), the
strongest demand for social subprojects in the NRDP. Demand focused on electrification
(223 subprojects), water supply (56), manioc flour mills (31) and the purchase of
ambulances (para. 43). Rural electrification subprojects benefited about 20,300 poor
families in about 200 rural communities, while water supply projects benefited about 9,200
families in 50 communities. The benefits of these and other investments, while not yet
formally measured, are expected to be substantial.
57.   Notwithstanding the excellent performance of Sergipe, several issues merit
comment. The FUMAC program was not expanded beyond the seven original
municipalities, despite the recommendations of Bank missions to identify new
municipalities for FUMAC and establish new project Municipal Councils. The TU
focused its efforts on the PAC program (which represented 93% of all subprojects),
consciously restricting FUMAC to the pilot number agreed at reformulation. This was not
due to a failure to recognize the advantages of FUMAC, but rather reflected the State's
characteristic adherence to the letter of an agreement. Even under PAC, communities did
participate in subproject decision-making and execution, and there was an impressive
degree of decentralization and local involvement. All the same, missions believed various
problems under PAC -- concentration of demand and excessive demand for certain kinds
of subprojects -- might have been minimized if priorities had been discussed in FUMAC
municipal councils. It appears that political influence may have skewed community
decision-making away from their genuine priorities. FUMAC expansion is a key feature of
the new project in Sergipe and was accepted by the state unequivocally.
58.   Unlike other states, the municipalities' participation in the allocation of counterpart
funds was minor.25The State was willing to provide the counterpart and did not involve
the municipalities, although this meant reduced funding for other state investment
programs in order to free funds for NRDP. Missions urged the TU to promote municipal
co-financing in preparation for the new project. In the current fiscal downturn, Sergipe is
likely to look for municipal counterpart to lessen its own burden.
59.   Rio Grande do Norte. The reformulated NRDP in Rio Grande do Norte
surpassed all the implementation benchmarks established at the time of the reformulation.
The project's performance stood out among its counterparts for the unique, collaborative
relationship between the Project Coordinating Unit (CODEC) and the NGO community,
part of a tradition of NGO involvement in public programs in that state. The main NGOs,
which include FETARN (Federa,co dos Trabalhadores do Agricultura do Rio Grande do
Norte), AACC (Associa,cao de Apoio as Comunidades do Campo), the Catholic Church,
the Rural Workers' Union and FOCAMPO (Forum do Campo Potiguar), an umbrella
organization representing diverse groups, have provided expert assistance in the project
areas for community mobilization, technical assistance, training, monitoring and
25.   Supervision Report (update), June 1996.



- 17-
supervision. This also had the effect of enabling the Technical Unit (TU) to remain small
and focused.
60.   The TU pioneered the subcontracting of monitoring and supervision services to the
NGO community, which increased the frequency of subproject visits and thus improved
the prospects for proper operation and maintenance of subprojects. The State Government
also introduced Municipal Rural Development Committees (CMDRs) into all participating
municipalities so that all community subproject proposals (not only rural) were screened at
the municipal level.
61.   By the Closing Date, 769 subprojects had been financed of which productive
accounted for 75%, infrastructure 24% and social 1%, and of which 90% were PAC and
10% FUMAC. Community demand favored 9 subproject types,26 which accounted for
almost 70% of total subprojects financed to date. Some 71,600 families in 620 rural
communities, representing 28% of eligible beneficiaries -- more than four times the
reformulation estimate -- benefited from the project. The project produced tangible
evidence in the field that beneficiaries' incomes and standard of living had improved.
62.   Of the original NRDP loan amount of US$61.4 million, US$36.1 million was
disbursed by reformulation (Part II, Table 12). Partial cancellation of US$10.0 million
occurred in December 1994. Final disbursement amounted to US$49.2 million and
cancellation of US$2.2 million was effected on November 12, 1996.
63.   Serra do Mel. The impact of the successful collaboration with NGOs in Rio
Grande do Norte is exemplified in the much-praised and -visited municipality of Serra do
Mel. This municipality has benefited from FUMAC subprojects and advanced sufficiently
to inter alia, leverage other sources of funds for community development and to assert
that its participatory institutions and processes are sufficiently mature to counter any
political manipulation.
64.   Several factors explain this favorable status: (i) many years of cooperation
between the State Government and NGOs; (ii) astute guidance from a prominent, well-
connected NGO (AACC) which sought to transforrn the municipality from a centrally-
managed, high-cost land reform settlement, into a self-sustaining and community-managed
unit based upon the micro industrial production of cashew nut for export; (iii) a successful,
long-standing contractual relationship between AACC and the State extension agency
EMATER, resulting not only in the successful cashew technology but also the piloting of
other economic activities involving small-scale, individual irrigation systems. Extension
was initially paid for by AACC and later taken over by the municipality with excellent
26    Water supply, rural electrification, cashew nut processing, clothesmaking, communal tractors,
manioc flour mills, small-scale irrigation, dairying and latrines.



- 18 -
results; and (iv) economic activities included high-value products, part of which was
exported as a result of community action.27
Use of Consultants
65.   All four states depended at different times and for varying purposes, on consultant
services. In the initial years, UNDP was contracted by SUDENE to provide TA to the
states for training and planning, through a core group of consultants stationed within that
agency. These contracts ended in 1990 and were not renewed. While the quality of
service provided was satisfactory, it did not equip SUDENE institutionally, to deliver the
same services without UNDP assistance. Although contracted personnel were capable,
they did not leave behind a body of trained permanent staff. The follow-up contract with
IICA, again signed with SUDENE, stationed the consultants in each participating state.
Sergipe was an exception, contracting separately with FAO. Prior to the reformulation,
almost all of these consultancies were associated with the Water Resources component
where consultant expertise was a key factor; few, if any, worked on community
organization, mobilization or other activities. The quality of consultant services in this
second phase was good or satisfactory.
66.   At reformulation, the umbrella IICA contract was replaced by individual
IICA/state contracts. Bahia, Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte contracted with IICA, while
Sergipe continued with FAO. The new project design required a dramatic change in the
content of technical assistance, away from water resources toward demand-driven, highly-
decentralized projects; the transition occurred in all cases except Sergipe, which made
little use of consultants in this process. In Rio Grande do Norte, NGOs were also
contracted as consultants, with significant benefits for the project. Bahia made extensive
and successful use of private consulting firms outside the IICA contract for the large
irrigation subprojects.
67.   In general, the quality of consultant services was higher under the reformulated
projects. While the need for consultant expertise is unquestioned, it is unclear whether
this need is better satisfied under umbrella contracts with international groups such as
IICA, UNDP or FAO, or direct contracting between the States and consultants drawn
from a broad pool of expertise. The observed trend is towards the latter. Under the new
RPAP, community associations and FUMAC and FUMAC-P (a pilot, more decentralized
variant of FUMAC) Municipal Councils will closely control the selection and contracting
of TA providers.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
68.   Sustainability. Final supervision missions worked to ensure that decentralization
and participation were deepened and expanded. State campaigns sought to mobilize
27~  For a fuller description of Serra do Mel, see Working Draft for the World Bank Brazil
Implementation Commission, MIT, 1996.



- 19-
communities, disseminate information on the program, promote the formation of project
Municipal Councils and expand FUMAC (including paving the way for the FUMAC-P
approach) and to prepare standard subproject designs. Bank/FAO evaluations (1995 and
1996) found that beneficiary communities' had a strong proprietary interest in their
investments from having selected and implemented them, and contributed to their cost.
Their potential sustainability appears good. In the four states reviewed, and in other states
under the Program, many water supply subprojects initiated under the APCR are still well-
maintained with secure communal arrangements. Beneficiaries' readily commit to the
operation and maintenance of their investments through up-front signature of legally-
binding agreements, while many associations have accumulated substantial reserve funds
to cover maintenance costs.28
69.   Nevertheless, at the beginning of the process, when the first productive subprojects
were implemented, the sustainability of some of them was uncertain (e.g., clothes-making,
bakeries, fruit processing). Contributing factors included inadequate technical and
managerial know-how, competition from large firms, the lack of organizational skills to
market production and because some products such as manioc have limited commercial
potential. Lack of beneficiary participation, and inadequate supervision and TA were also
factors. Corrections were introduced including technical assistance throughout the
subproject cycle, and the new RPAP includes additional remedies for these deficiencies.
70.   Plans for Future Operation. The four states were not legally required to prepare
plans for future operations and no such plans exist (with the exception of Bahia, and for
one set of activities). The same is true for monitoring future operations of the projects.
Nevertheless, prospects for maximizing project benefits appear good. The States and their
Governors are supporting policies and actions which stress decentralized decision-making
and management. Communities are signing O&M agreements and are setting up reserve
funds, evidence of intent to honor these arrangements. Further, ex-post evaluation studies
such as those already done in 1995 and 1996, are an important tool for monitoring the
operational phase of subprojects and for determining whether things were well done.
71.   In the case of Bahia, an important issue is the future sustainability and operations
of the Pascoal Limoeiro and Itapera irrigation subprojects, initiated before NRDP
reformulation. The State committed assistance to both systems, for which all
infrastructure was completed and equipment acquired, and included funds in its 1996
budget to support their operation. The State also prepared an action plan involving the
Secretariats of Agriculture and Planning to provide the necessary TA for these systems.
Bank Performance
72.   The Bank has sought for several decades to improve the outcome and impact of
rural poverty programs in the Northeast. Until 1993 however, many design and
28.    Brazil: Northeast Rural Development Program - Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO,
March 14, 1996.



- 20 -
administrative problems and the macroeconomic and fiscal context limited their potential.
Preparation and appraisal of the original projects showed a thoughtful attempt to innovate
and counter risk, but the framework, concept and mechanisms remained conceptually and
operationally traditional, the macro-economic and policy context was not given enough
attention, and undue faith was placed in the Federal Government's commitment to the
Program and willingness to find the funds, regardless of the economic circumstances. It
is a truism that chronic shortages of counterpart funds are either indicative of deficient
commitment to project objectives or that the project exceeds fiscal capacity. Realistically,
however, the Bank would have been clairvoyant to foresee the nature of certain pivotal
events which had such a powerful impact on these projects, especially after 1988.
Appraisal, on balance, was satisfactory, subject to certain caveats: lending pressures in the
mid-1980s played a role; and evidence suggests the Bank accepted somewhat uncritically,
the capacities of institutions to carry out the projects, although it is also true that key
federal agencies did have considerable technical capacity.
73.   The Bank's choice following the Mid-Term assessment was essentially to cancel
these projects or try to improve their impact and cost-effectiveness, a protracted dialogue
and design process which culminated in stripping away the IRD components, to focus fully
on a new mechanism and make it work. The period which elapsed prior to definitive
reformulation - seven years from effectiveness, is problematic. There was no mechanism
in the Bank for coming to quick closure on reformulation and no indications that either the
Bank or Borrower sensed any great urgency or had established a time frame for action.
This would be unlikely to occur in the "implementation culture" of today's Bank.
74.   There are indications that supervision timing was irregular, mostly in the case of
Rio Grande do Norte and to a lesser extent the other states.29 Further, the supervision
record itself, both in the Bank and in Recife, is incomplete in terms of consistent sets of
documentation for every mission or update. From 1989 onwards, these projects entered
their period of poorest performance marked by an acute lack of counterpart funds and
institutional disarray. Increasing amounts of time were spent by Bank and especially
Recife Office staff visiting all ten northeast states to devise an acceptable reformulation
package, as opposed to carrying out formal supervision. This became a protracted
process when a second reformulation was undertaken.
75.   There is no doubt that timeliness -- the meshing of project design with the
changing political economy and national sentiment-- was a central factor in the successful
outcome of the reformulated projects, and this is a key lesson. Through the community-
based development model, the Bank made a major technical contribution to Brazil based
on its own experience; launched a more democratic process of rural poverty alleviation;
but perhaps more important, as stated in the 1996 Bank/FAO evaluation, the main
achievement of the reformulated projects has been to support the decentralized allocation
of resources in the rural Northeast. Obviously, the dramatic shift did not imply that the
29    In the case of Rio Grande do Norte, supervision in the period from early 1988 to mid-1990
(see Table 11) was handled from Bank headquarters.



- 21 -
rural poor no longer needed credit, extension and other services or that smaliholder
agricultural production had lost currency. Indeed, having gained confidence in the
capacity of the community-based investment mechanism to satisfy a range of basic needs,
the Bank is now addressing several critically important subsectors in the Northeast:
market-based land reform, integrated water management, and rural financial market
development.
76.   The World Bank Recife Office has been fundamental to the implementation and
supervision of the reformulated NRDP projects. The Recife Office, established in 1974
has three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the Northeastern states,
handling all supervision activities including procurement reviews and field visits. In this
manner, Bank support has been better tailored to the decentralized structure of the
reformulated Program. The Recife Office also updates and manages a global database, the
Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMP) which provides detailed information on
these projects and serves as a monitoring tool both for the Bank and for the individual
state TUs.
Borrower Performance
77.   Economic, fiscal and political factors which boiled over in the latter part of the
1980s, steadily sapped the commitment of the Federal Government (as Borrower) to these
projects, reflected in the erratic and corrosive counterpart funding situation. In the post-
reformulation phase, with counterpart funding responsibilities transferred to the states, the
Federal government periodically delayed the release of loan funds and/or advances of
Federal (Treasury) funds to them, sometimes for political reasons (notably in Rio Grande
do Norte in 1994) but more often to promote financial discipline in state performance.
Overall, the Federal and State Governments' willingness to support a radically new
approach to rural poverty alleviation was instrumental in the success of the reformulated
projects.
78.   SUDENE performed well in several key areas: control over the use of Federal
funds; maintaining steadiness and regional uniformity in program strategy and objectives;
technical assistance (TA) for training; the provision of specialist consultants; and
continuous state and regional monitoring. However, SUDENE's overall ability to guide
and supervise was weak and its operational rigidity, stemming from excessively
bureaucratic systems and regulations, curbed the intended flexibility of the Program.
While TA had some successes in individual states, SUDENE itself absorbed little benefit
institutionally. SUDENE was overstaffed, but lacked sufficient trained personnel for its
role, which was sharply reduced under the reformulation as many of its responsibilities
devolved to the states. SUDENE's performance post-reformulation was satisfactory, and
it produced an insightful, timely Completion Report on behalf of the Federal Government.
79.   Technical Units. The relative efficiency of the TUs depended on the availability of
qualified people, the material and financial deficiencies affecting their operations, and the
degree of administrative and financial independence from their parent State Secretariats.
Despite their substantial size and tendency (with the exception of Sergipe) to be



- 22 -
overstaffed, their capacity to process a large number of subproject proposals, and provide
TA and supervision, was taxed. All four TUs received TA for institutional development,
contracted mostly from international organizations. Under the original NRDP, while
legally and administratively strong, the units lacked the political and fiscal power to
influence the state implementing agencies, particularly when fiscal circumstances
prevented them from honoring their funding commitments to these agencies. Their role
devolved to drafting annual operating plans, channeling funds to the agencies, and tracking
expenditures and physical implementation.
80.   In the post-reformulation phase, problems included the general overstaffing of
TUs, their inadequate field presence, supervision capacity and monitoring and evaluation.
There was also a tendency for TUs to assume responsibility for important steps of the
subproject planning and implementation cycle. This sometimes inhibited community
participation, but on occasions was a valuable means of launching the subproject
identification, selection and approval process in the absence of community leaders or
NGOs,30 of enhancing work content and of substituting for non-performing agencies. The
results were sometimes quite successful. An assessment of the Technical Unit in each of
the four states, follows.
81.   Bahia. The State Company for Regional Development Action (CAR), under the
State Secretariat of Planning, was the project's TU for the duration. Its size reflected the
fact that Bahia had the largest project in the Program. Like the Sergipe TU, and in
marked contrast to Ceara and Rio Grande do Norte, CAR enjoyed considerable
administrative and financial independence and its coordinator had greater decision-making
power than his counterparts. Technical personnel were always high-caliber. Most
advances in first-phase project implementation took place from 1986/87 to 1991;
thereafter, until reformulation, the project was plagued by the general "crisis" experienced
by the entire program. CAR pursued project goals in a determined fashion and was
creative in its problem-solving, but adjusting to a highly-decentralized project design
(through reformulation) was not an easy transition for Bahia/CAR, which clung to a
traditional, paternalistic view of poor, small communities, discounting their ability and
wish to be pro-active. Nevertheless, with the strong involvement of the mayors, state
performance in getting project funds out to the beneficiary communities was dramatically
better than in the past, when little more than 30% of the funds reached the poor. Attitudes
towards participation are changing. Progress was also hampered up to 1995 by CAR's
inadequate field presence to receive, appraise, approve and supervise a huge number of
community proposals and subprojects.
82.   Cearai. Prior to reformulation, the State Agricultural Planning Commission
(CEPA) as project TU, was under the Secretariat of Agriculture, at that time a
politicized and ideological agency. Performance, judged on the basis of loan
disbursement, was poor. CEPA was dismantled in 1990. The new TU also remained
within Agriculture and many staff left as implementation continued to deteriorate. At
30    Comments on draft ICR by Sergipe State Technical Unit, PRONESE, October 2, 1996.



- 23 -
reformulation, a new TU was established as a Directorate within the State Secretariat of
Planning, with some former staff being absorbed by the new unit. Although well-run by a
committed, capable Coordinator, the TU lacked administrative and financial independence
from the Planning agency, and the State delayed the release of counterpart funds in the
first months of the reformulated project. The TU's performance turned the corner in mid-
1995. While its lack of independence did not improve, a good working relationship
between the state Secretary of Planning and the TU Coordinator, coupled with the State's
renewed commitment to the project, and to the principles of decentralization, galvanized
project implementation.
83.   Rio Grande do Norte. The State Agricultural Planning Foundation (CEPA) as
TU, was a dependency of the Secretariat of Agriculture until reformulation. Until 1990,
the TU's performance was satisfactory, but it deteriorated sharply in the period from 1991
to reformulation despite retaining most of its original technical staff, again, most probably
a reflection of the crisis affecting the entire NRDP. The reformulation transferred the TU
to the Secretariat of Planning and Finance, along with a small cadre of its technical people
but until the end of 1994, staffing and internal organization of the TU remained
inadequate.
84.   In what was to have significant consequences for the project, NGOs were called
upon to bolster the TU's capacity to supervise and ensure proper project implementation
which ultimately allowed to project to survive, mainly through the political support and
credibility the NGOs brought to the project in the communities. The release of project
loan funds was also politicized by the Federal Government (the Ministry of Regional
Integration) causing further pressure on the project. A new State administration in 1995
transferred the TU to the State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action (SETAS), the core
staff were retained and the NGOs, in view of their demonstrated successful collaboration
with the TU, consolidated their role. Performance improved markedly and the NGO
partnership with the TU and the communities is a distinguishing feature of the State's
project experience.
85.   Sergipe. The project unit (PRONESE) except for changes in its coordinator, was
technically and administratively stable throughout. The outstanding features of
PRONESE were its small size -- overstaffing of TUs was common -- rational
organizational structure, well-trained and dedicated staff, and strict adherence to project
guidelines and agreed covenants. The unit used its energies to implement a quality project
post-reformulation. Of the four states, Sergipe alone disbursed almost 100% of its
original loan, canceling only US$1.0 million (in 1994). The TU experienced no noticeable
growth pains in its start-up phase under the reformulation and no special technical
assistance or institutional development were required by the unit. Nevertheless, evidence
suggests that the Sergipe TU was quite politicized and project operations were, on earlier
occasions, inconsistent with Program objectives. The TU was slow to embrace
decentralization, but its recent performance under the RPAP suggests this is changing.
86.   State Secretariats of Agriculture (SSA) controlled the NRDP up to reformulation.
The original NRDP was a secure and timely source of funding for their extension,



- 24 -
research, marketing services and irrigation agencies, but this disappeared in 1993. The re-
designed NRDP left no room for their direct participation and in any case, assisted poor
rural communities, not only small farmers. It also transferred to communities the choice
and implementation of their own subprojects, including contracting TA, which in the case
of several states is provided by EMATER -- an agency of SSA -- but contracted locally by
the communities. There was (and remains) no objective reason for SSA involvement in
the program.
87.   Procurement. Post-reformulation procurement, in which small-scale contracts
predominated, progressed smoothly in all four states. Community associations proved
adept, with little or no assistance, at obtaining the best deal for project fumds. Supervision
missions did not encounter any significant problems or anomalous situations involving
procurement. Neither the Technical Units, nor the beneficiary associations, had significant
problems interpreting Bank procurement guidelines. Small-scale, direct shopping and
contracting for goods and services by beneficiaries proved to be efficient - because
associations obtained their needs more cheaply for the same quality, than those procured
by public entities (federal, state and municipal) - and monitorable.
88.   In all the states, except Bahia, acquisitions were made directly by the associations,
whereas in Bahia, a high proportion of the acquisitions were undertaken by the Municipal
Government (MG) on behalf of the beneficiary associations. More commonly, an
agreement was signed between the state (TU) and the association through which funds
were transferred to the association, which proceeded to acquire needed goods and
services. The option existed, however, of tripartite agreements between the TU,
association and MG and of the four states, Bahia made considerable use of this option.
Approval of a community subproject was followed by signature of a tripartite agreement
under which the association asked the MG to acquire goods and services on its behalf; the
TU released the funds to the municipality, which purchased the goods and/or services and
transferred them to the association.
89.   By doing this, the associations lost the opportunity to be more deeply involved in
their own subprojects, to learn how to handle procurement themselves and, to capture the
cost savings from purchasing on their own account at lower prices. Under the new project
in Bahia (Ln. 3917-BR), the State is being encouraged to use the tripartite system as an
exception, through a limit in the Loan Agreement on total funds usable for acquisitions by
parties other than the associations.
90.   Audits. In the cases of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe, auditing of
project accounts was carried out by the Federal Government. Bahia was an exception,
with auditing entrusted to the State Court of Accounts. The Federal Government tended
to be late in submitting audits while the states (Bahia and others) tended to be good audit
performers. The quality of project auditing improved steadily over time, reflected,
ironically, in the number of qualified statements. All four states had a good record of
satisfactorily resolving problems raised in audit reports.



- 25 -
91.    Covenant Compliance. The key legal covenants pre-reformulation concerned
the Borrower's obligation to provide counterpart funds, and to ensure proper functioning
of the rural credit component. The Borrower's performance was deficient in both cases.
A joint Aide Memoire of March 8, 1993 transferred counterpart funding responsibility to
the States, whose performance in all four cases has since been both superior to the pre-
reformulation phase and generally satisfactory.31 The credit component was discontinued.
Assessment of Outcome
92.    SARs for the original projects contain internal economic rates of return (IERR) for
the four states ranging from 13% to 19%.32 It is implicit from the complete re-design of
the projects in 1993 that they were unsatisfactory, and their IERRs have not been re-
calculated. The Mid-Term Review (1991) of the original projects noted that their impact
on production, income and employment was difficult to assess due to the lack of concrete
evaluation results, in spite of considerable effort to devise a methodology for evaluation
studies. Statistical data on inputs and beneficiaries in each state were considered
unreliable due to double-counting and overlap among years and components, but tended
to confirm the general shortfall in achievements. Information recently provided by the
States shows that this situation persisted up to the effective reformulation in September
1993, with variations between states.
93.   The reformulated projects fell under the rubric of targeted interventions based on a
demand-driven mechanism of which the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be
determined with any certainty, ex ante, and thus no IERRs were calculated (or
accordingly, re-calculated). While this report is technically exempt from re-estimating an
IERR, the results of the two major Bank/FAO evaluations of the Program are relevant and
interesting.33 Both evaluations calculated the socio-economic benefits and cost
effectiveness of PAC/FUMAC subprojects based on a range of the more commonly
demanded infrastructure, productive and social investments.
31.    The Aide Memoire was jointly signed by all state governors, representatives of the Federal
Government and the Bank, during negotiations of the reformulation, and before the Amendment
letters were approved by the Bank (June 1993).
32.    Ceara 13% (due to its poorer resource base), Bahia 17%, Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte 19%.
These evaluations (1995 and 1996) were carried out as part of project preparation for two new
loan packages under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program It was agreed prior to preparation of
the first new package (Bahia, Ceard and Sergipe) that the first evaluation would look at all ten
states The 1996 analysis for the second package covered Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and
Minas Gerais The ranges provided are indicative only given the sampling nature of the analysis,
the variations which exist between subprojects in terms of cost and performance and, in the case
of the 1995 evaluation, the relatively short time between reformulation and evaluation. The
sampling methodology used for the 1996 evaluation can be found in Brazil: Northeast Rural
Development Program-Performance and Evaluation, World Bank/FAO, March 14, 1996.



- 26 -
94.    Internal economic rates of return (IERR)34 were found to be quite high,
investment per job created was low and social benefit-cost ratios were satisfactory (see
Tables 15-18). The analysis of sample cases surveyed showed that the NRDP projects
had a positive impact on quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes of beneficiaries.35
95.    The 1996 analysis shows that internal economic rates of return for productive
subprojects in most cases ranged from 30% to 50% in financial terms, and 40% to 50% in
economic terms. Both analyses assumed constant benefits over an eight-year project life.
In most cases, the estimated economic IERRs were higher than the financial ones: while
the economic cost of labor -- the most important input in smallholder agriculture -- was
very low due to severe unemployment, economic prices of outputs which are produced in
small quantities and all traded internally except for rice and cashew nut, are virtually the
same as their financial prices.36 An analysis was also carried out to determine the
sensitivity of the IERRs to the distorting effects of publicly-funded grants, stemming from
the costs associated with raising these funds (i.e. taxation). While using the shadow price
of public funds reduced the respective IERRs, these remained significantly positive and
exceeded 17% in all cases.
96.    The analysis also revealed satisfactory cost-effectiveness results both in terms of
employment creation and social benefit/cost ratios. The methodology for determnining
cost-effectiveness involved estimating, where appropriate, the total investment cost per
additional job created by the various types of subprojects, and social benefit/cost ratios.
For all subprojects analyzed (including under the 1995 evaluation) the initial investment
per additional job created was low (at least 10 times lower than in the industry and service
sectors) and benefit/cost ratios were satisfactory (between 1.0 and 3 .0).7
34.
Evaluations use IERR as opposed to ERR terminology in SARs.
The Bank/FAO socio-economic analysis for Rio Grande do Norte, covered nine types of
subprojects in the three main categories: in infrastructure these were rural water supply, street
paving, and rural electrification; in productive, manioc mills, cashew nut processing, tractors for
communal use, dairying and clothes making; and, under social, the analysis looked at latrine
construction In the analysis for Pernambuco and Minas Gerais, the analysis also reviwed small-
scale irrigation under infrastructure, and analyzed rehabilitation of rural schools and health-
related house improvement, under the social category.
The IERRs were calculated not for all subprojects among the selected productive types, but for
sample subprojects visited either by State Technical Units or Bank/FAO researchers, during
which beneficiaries and other local stakeholders were interviewed. There was no systematic
recording of poorly-performing subprojects in each state and thus the relative percentages of such
are guesstimates at best. Productive subprojects which performed well in one state might have a
poor record in another. The IERR of one subproject versus another may not be the best indicator
of performance, especially if subproject size differs. Similarly, subprojects showing very high
IERRs may have only a small impact on family net income.
The SUDENE report steers away from estimating income, production and job generation, citing
methodological difficulties and relies on interviews with association/community members
conceming subproject benefits: of the most-frequently-cited, employment and income generation



- 27 -
97.   In respect to cost recovery, the 1996 evaluation concluded that user fees from
beneficiary associations adequately covered O&M and replacement of worn equipment.
Findings have been fairly uniform across states, that the net income of beneficiary
associations is sufficient, after deducting all O&M expenses, to cover replacement of the
investment in 5-7 years, compared to its useful life of 10 years. Manioc mills were
similarly found to be sustainable, with associations retaining sufficient funds to amortize
the mill complex in 7 years compared to its useful life of 12 years.
98.   Both the original and reformulated projects were problematic, to varying degrees
and for different reasons, when it came to economic assessment, highlighting the need for
greater attention during project design, to baseline studies, and to monitoring and
evaluation methodologies. In particular, Borrowers' commitment and capacity to
undertake evaluation (which remains a weakness of Bank-financed projects) throughout
the project cycle, should be high on the checklist for project supervision.
99.   Each of the four reformulated projects is rated Satisfactory, reflecting their
achievement of objectives, project sustainability and exit ratings in final supervision Forms
590.
Main Findings and Lessons Learned
100. Main Findings. This was a longer-term program, planned and implemented in a
complex and dynamic environment. Despite the effort to innovate and to head off
counterpart funding and other problems, the original projects were too cumbersome and
complex for the deteriorating fiscal, macro-economic and institutional conditions and were
not compatible with the momentous changes after 1988 in the national political economy,
which demanded a more decentralized, participatory project design. Thus, while the Bank
could not control the larger forces at play in Brazil, project design created its own set of
problems.
101.  The reformulated projects in the four states successfully achieved their objectives
because their design and implementation strategy fit the evolving political, economic and
social context. This legacy resulted from "revolutionary" decisions: (i) by the Bank, to
take a poverty alleviation approach, with all its implications of decentralization, grants,
ownership and participation, instead of a rural/agricultural development approach; and (ii)
by the Federal and State Governments, to relinquish a significant measure of political
control by empowering rural communities and, more importantly, by acknowledging the
right and ability of the rural poor to establish their own priorities and make decisions.
102.  Community-based development is not a "magic bullet" for poverty reduction in the
Northeast, which is why the Bank, having launched a significant process with measurable
impact on beneficiaries, is now turning its attention to other major constraints in the
is ranked first, followed by better family nutrition, increased family production (in Rio Grande do
Norte, cashew processing, cattle-raising, and clothesmaking) and transportation of production
and people (prominently-ranked in Bahia and Sergipe).



- 28 -
sector. But beneficiaries themselves feel that the projects are generally delivering the
benefits they promised, unlike earlier efforts, and demand for such subproject investments
is strong. Modifications designed to address identified shortcomings have been
incorporated in the new generation of Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects. States and
municipalities have proven willing to make needed corrections.
103.  Grants. Grant-based investment in productive subprojects is a legitimate
mechanism for jump-starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, a process usually
limited by their inability to generate savings and gain access to the formal credit system.
Grants have made an important contribution to sustainable local development in the states
reviewed. Concerns about potentially inefficient investments and producers, are being
addressed. New projects in Bahia, Sergipe and Ceara, and projects upcoming in other
states including Rio Grande do Norte, contain design improvements to rationalize the use
of grants, including additional eligibility criteria for all productive subprojects, and a
regulamento de uso authorizing the Municipal Councils (FUMAC and FUMAC-P) and the
TUs to reject some types of productive subprojects.
104. PAC and FUMAC. FUMAC is more effective than PAC in important ways,
demonstrating a larger number of subprojects per municipality and beneficiaries per
subproject; greater community participation and transparency; improved community
capacity to identify, select and implement priority investments; and, lower cost per
beneficiary. The stronger institutional element, the Municipal Councils, has fostered
community organization and ensured a more rigorous subproject selection process and
thus better-quality investments overall. It would be an exaggeration to claim that the
FUMAC Municipal Councils have changed the balance of power in the Northeast, but
they have already contributed to effecting such change in the longer-term.
105.  Graduation. It may be necessary to progressively graduate some communities
and municipalities as the aggregate benefits of several subprojects (and benefits from
other programs) equip them to leverage funds from other sources. However, the
pervasiveness of rural poverty in the Northeast indicates the need for a carefully crafted
strategy based on defining practical, operational ways of identifying communities which
are close to achieving this status. Profiles of beneficiary communities would be developed
to demonstrate: capacity for sustainable savings; adequacy of social and economic
infrastructure; access to social and other services; community organization; incomes and
nutritional/health status. Communities with superior ratings would progressively
contribute a higher percentage to, and eventually cease to be eligible for, project matching
grants.
106.  Environment. The environmental impact of the generally small-scale PAC and
FUMAC subprojects was insignificant, but certain kinds of subprojects are more likely to
have environmental side-effects, e.g., the sludge from manioc processing, a situation
which is well-known and for which counter-measures have been in place, even since the
APCR component.



- 29 -
107. Participation. While providing a forum for local decision-making, the FUMAC
municipal councils remain sensitive to political interference from local power groups,
especially the mayors, (but the PACs are even more vulnerable). While vigilance is needed
to combat such political tampering, many mayors in the four states are working closely
with MCs for legitimate community ends. There are benefits from local political
involvement, including sustaining the projects' decentralized implementation (MIT 1996).
Local governments are committing financial and institutional resources to approved
community subprojects, even though neither PAC nor FUMAC legally requires this, and
even adopting the FUMAC approach to decision-making for other municipal investments.
PAC's primary justification at this point is to allow associations in communities where the
political leadership opposes FUMAC, to bypass the municipal authorities and work
directly with the state TUs, but there are limitations on its use, which is seen as residual.
108.  Technical Assistance. Project funding for TA does not ensure its availability in
rural areas. Resourcefulness is needed to obtain TA for the many aspects of the
subproject cycle which require it. Replication of the successful alliances between the TU
and NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte is one solution; making greater use of state extension
agencies (EMATER) is another;38 and subcontracting to private providers as was done
successfully in Bahia, is a further option. The overdesign of subprojects and insufficient
TA have led to marked divergence in the size, cost, quality and sustainability of similar
investments. Over-design and poor quality design can be mitigated by developing
standard designs and technical standards. The TUs stressed this activity in all four states
in the final year, especially in preparation for new projects under the RPAP. Finally, under
the reformulated projects, TA funding was tied to subproject approval; non-approval
meant associations still had to pay out of their own pockets for the TA used in preparation
of the proposal, a potent source of frustration for poor communities, and one which has
been resolved under the new RPAP.
109.  Organization. Well-organized rural communities can influence the allocation and
use of municipal funds. Experience in Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe and other states
shows that about 10% of all associations, especially those with an organizational history
and well-established distribution of responsibilities and benefits, fared better in getting first
access to subprojects and obtaining more than one subproject (SUDENE 1996). The
cumulative benefits (and multiplier effects) have accelerated local development and raised
the issue of graduation from the program. Concentration of investments or logistical
limitations of the TUs meant many communities were not reached. Many associations
were rapidly and legally/bureaucratically organized in 1993/94 to access project funds, but
lacked the "glue" of having evolved consensually over time. But it is not clear that
permanence should be a paradigm. The demands of subproject identification, execution
and maintenance are considerable and risks are attached to the on-the-job stage, i.e.,
when "organized" communities must operate and maintain an investment on their own and
it is shared objectives which bind them together. Sequential mobilization, organization
38.   The EMATER in Minas Gerais provided high quality TA to communities but across the
Northeast, service quality is a major problem.



- 30 -
and training of communities as a prerequisite for receiving project funds cannot guarantee
that an association will perform well and/or stay together.
110.  Integration. These projects did not attempt to integrate small farmers (pre-
reformulation) and the rural poor (post-reformulation) into the more dynamic economy of
the region, or to restructure semi-arid agriculture, nor have they sought integration with
other Northeast rural poverty programs. Raising small farmers' productivity by financing
inputs including water was an initial, basic step, but the projects did not target specific
crops, and anticipated fairly traditional cropping patterns.39 In any case, many small
farmers chose to stay with their subsistence crops rather than access project-financed
credit lines in an inflationary economy. The reformulated projects funded collective
investments in agro-processing rather than production, as in the case of cashew processing
in Serra do Mel in Rio Grande do Norte. In this case, the project directly assisted poor
communities to transform a low income activity into a thriving export item with significant
revenue potential, but such cases remain few. Nevertheless, the provision of start-up
capital, water, electricity and other inputs including TA, has opened the door to future
economic integration.
111.  Finally, there is considerable overlap between programs seeking to combat rural
poverty, but little interaction to magnify effects. The SUDENE report describes the TUs
as being almost unanimous that the lack of integration constrained full development of
these projects, but this view is not widely shared. Actually, these projects were the only
ones with assured funding and genuine targeting of beneficiaries, thus attracting criticism
for being "isolated" and "self-contained" from entities involved with other programs
whose underlying objective may have been to use "integration" to
gain access to the projects without the yoke of their strict rules and criteria. Evidence
suggests that few other projects have the potential for integration with these projects.
112.  Lessons Learned. The lessons, substantiating Bank-wide experience in many
cases, are as follows:
(a)    Even the best-designed RD projects will falter under severe macro-
economic and fiscal pressures, and a policy environment unfavorable
to agriculture;
(b)    Project design should anticipate and be sufficiently flexible to permit, and
project staff should be alert to the potential need to undertake, significant
changes of course or complete reformulation if necessary, within a
reasonable timeframe,
(c)    The reformulated projects were scaled up from a successful pilot
experience (APCR), further refined by incorporating wider experiences,
They did, however, assume quite dramatic production increases in some crops on the basis of
pasture conversion and greater area, combined with project inputs.



-31 -
and they also, piloted a more progressive mechanism (FUMAC) with
significant impact. The new RPAP projects take this further, piloting
FUMAC-P as a vehicle for greater decentralization of resource allocation
and control. The willingness to experiment benefits projects Bank-wide;
(d)   Grant-based investment is a legitimate and effective tool for jump-
starting capital accumulation by the rural poor, and the matching grant
approach contributed to sustainable local development in the four states;
(e)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to
state and local government and beneficiaries improves project
administration and subproject quality. This process needs clearly-defined
perational incentives and penalties to counter departures from project
guidelines. Beneficiary participation in subproject selection,
implementation, financing and supervision generates "ownership", sound
O&M, quality investments, cost savings and local accountability. Vigilance
and appropriate controls are needed to prevent political interference in the
participatory process; community organization heightens the awareness
of available programs and services, facilitates participation and increases
subproject cost-effectiveness;
(f)   Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation and subproject
selection; and ensure that project resources reach the poorest communities;
and be accompanied by well-designed publicity campaigns which ensure
transparency and a proper knowledge of program/project objectives,
content and access, bolster the targeting process;
(g)   Sustainability of project investments is enhanced by municipal and
community cost-sharing, beneficiary involvement in local public investment
allocations, and when TA is provided throughout the subproject cycle;
(h)   Technical assistance should be prioritized throughout the subproject cycle
for: improving the outcome of productive subprojects; community
mobilization and organization; planning, management and financial skills
development for municipalities and community associations; marketing
strategies; and institutional development of the TU; "on the job" training
for communities is equally valuable but not risk-free; sourcing TA in rural
areas needs creativity;
(i)    Supervision is indispensable for subproject and overall project success and
should be strengthened, and involve local entities closest to the
communities, particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;



- 32 -
(j)    Productive subprojects need rigorous selection, preparation, TA and
supervision to maximize their commercial potential and sustainability; their
inherent social objectives in a poverty context should not imply "softer"
analysis of their rates of return, cost-effectiveness and feasibility;
(k)    Related to the above, project design should pay careful attention to
baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed monitoring and
evaluation and for expost assessments of the economic and financial
rates of return of a range of productive subprojects; and, accessible,
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation improves subproject
assessment, targeting and efficiency and is an essential planning and
management tool;
(1)    Standardization of documents, designs and unit costs simplifies
subproject preparation and evaluation, facilitates procurement, encourages
community participation, prevents faulty design and reduces processing
bottlenecks; and
(m)   Dissemination of "best practices", such as the collaboration with NGOs
in Rio Grande do Norte,40 through exchanges of information among
Technical Units, at training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning
and reward innovation.
Other examples of successful actions include the collaboration of EMATER, the State
agricultural extension service, in community mobilization, technical assistance and supervision,
and other states which have adopted technical parameters or developed training materials which
have had positive results.



- 33 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                                Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessment
A.  Achievement of Objectives                                                              Not                                                             Not
Substantial    Partial     Negligible   applicable             Substantial    Partial       Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                               ]                       L  a                                Li]           L             rn
Sector Policies                             L                          [i              1                     m           L             LI]
Financial Objectives                        [            [2 2                                               L            Ei                          El]
Institutional Development                                      3 G     L             [                         ]                                      Li
Physical Objectives                           E          [             L             L                      [            L             L                ]
Poverty Reduction                              ]               4]         ]          El]
Gender Issues                               L            L             L             Li                     E              Z           L             L
Other Social Objectives                     L             L             L            L                       Z            L            L             L
Environmental Objectives                    I             L            L             LII                     L            L             L             Li
Public Sector Management                       ]         L             L             Ii]                    [I]          L             L             L
Private Sector Development                  L             Z             L            Li                     IZ            L            L             L
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.
Credit Component
3 Regional Agricultural Research component to strengthen CPATSA, and State research agencies in the Northeast. Also institutional strengthening of SUDENE in support of
state rural development activities.
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993



- 34 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                              Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments 1
B.  Project Sustainability                   Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain                    Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
(9')            (9')             (9')                        (9')             (9')             (9')
LIZ                               LIII                       [I ml]                            L O
C.  Bank Performance                         Highly                                                       Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(9')            (9')             (9')                        (9')             (9')             (9')
Appraisal                                Z               []                                          L                []              L
Supervision                                                 D             LII                                           W  L ]
Implementation                                           L               E                            L                    ]           [Ii
D.  Borrower Performance 2                   Highly                                                       Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
(9')            (9')             (9')                        (9')             (9')             (9')
Preparation                                                                                           L                  W             [m
Implementation                          [                L                    ]                                           I C3            0
Covenant Compliance                                      L                  W                                              ]            LIm  
E.  Assessment of Outcome        Highly                                        Highly             Highly                                         Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
(9')          (9')           (9')             (9')               (9')           (9')           (9')             (9')
E    z    m    z                                         C1   z    g    [ F;2
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.
2 Borrower pre-reformulation was the Federal Government, and post-reformulation, the State of Sergipe.



- 35 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                                Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives                                                              Not                                                             Not
Substantial    Partial      Negligible   applicable            Substantial    Partial       Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                              E            L             E             El                       I          E             L             E
Sector Policies                             L            E                 ]        LZ                     E             E             L              Z
Financial Objectives 2                      Z            L             E             L                       L           El            E                ]
Institutional Development3                                E             E               ]                   E             L            L             L I
Physical Objectives                         [            L             E             E                         ]         E             E             L
Poverty Reduction 4                                       E             E            El                    El             E             E             El
Gender Issues                               E            E             E             LIZ                   E             E             E             E
Other Social Objectives                     E             El            E            E                      E             E             E             E
Environmental Objectives                    E             E             E            E                      E             E             E            El
Public Sector Management                    E             E             E            L                     L]             E             E             E
Private Sector Development                  E             E             E            El                     Z             E             E             E
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Strengthening of technical unit.
4 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 36 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
B.  Project Sustainability                Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain                    Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                      Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Appraisal                                I                            L                         L               [
Supervision                             0             L3                m                         I             [I]
Implementation                          a                             L     a                                                   Elilli
D.  Borrower Performance                  Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory      Deficient                Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                           L                                                                          LIII
Implementation                        L                 I             [                                         [               [II
Covenant Compliance                   L               [                  ]                                          ]           LII
E.  Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                      Highly            Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



- 37 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                               Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments 1
A.  Achievement of Objectives                                                            Not                                                             Not
Substantial    Partial     Negligible   applicable            Substantial    Partial      Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                l         E             [            E[1                    [                ]         [             E
Sector Policies                            E            E             E            El                     E            E             E             E
Financial Objectives                       E            E     2       E             1                     E             [1           [1            [
Institutional Development                  [            [I   3        [            E                      E             E            E             E
Physical Objectives                        [            E             E            E                      [             [            E                ]
Poverty Reduction                          E                  'J    El             E                      [2            E            E             E
Gender Issues                              E            E             E            El                     E             E            E             E
Other Social Objectives                     E            E             E            E                      E            E             E             E
Environmental Objectives                    E            E             E           El                      E            E             E             E
Public Sector Management                    E            E             E            E                     El            E             E             E
Private Sector Development                  E            E             E           El                     El            E             E             E
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
Credit Component
Regional Agricultural Research component to strengthen production oriented research in the Northeast, including inter-agency coordination; and institutional development of
the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) and State Food Company (EBAL).
Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 38 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary AssessmentsX
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain                    Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                       Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Appraisal                             [                                                           [     
Supervision                                             W              L                         L                [               LI
Implementation                        [               L               E                               I           [               [i
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                           [               L                L                         L                  m             L
Implementation                                                         L                           L  m              IImLI
Covenant Compliance                                                    L  0                                        LI              LI
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                      Highly             Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
LP  as se Ls] Lt mt Lei] Lj
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



-39 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Pre-Reformulation                                Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives                                                              Not                                                             Not
Substantial    Partial     Negligible   applicable             Substantial    Partial      Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                           [             L             L                     L             [             L             [2]
Sector Policies                             [            L             L            Li                     L             L             [             Li
Financial Objectives 2                         ]         L               1          L                          ]         [1            L             Li
Institutional Development                   L            [             2             [                     I             L              Z            L
Physical Objectives                         []           [1             0            Li                      E           [             L             [
Poverty Reduction 3                          0                         L             L                     L             L             L             Li
Gender Issues                               L            L             L             [2                    L             [             L             L
Other Social Objectives                      L            L             L            L                      L             L             L             Li
Environmental Objectives                     L            L             L            [                      L             L             L             Li
Public Sector Management                     L            L             L            L                      Li            L             L             L
Private Sector Development                   L            L             L            L                      Li            L             L             L
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.
2 Credit Component
3 Mainly through the APCR component, up to 1993.



- 40 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR) - Continued
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary AssessmentsX
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain                   Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                       Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(9')           (9')             (9')                       (9')            (9')            (9')
Appraisal                                 ]            L                Z                                         L               [LI
Supervision                               ]             I                E                        [                Z              L
Implementation                                        L                  II                         I             L     m
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(9')           (9')             (9')                       (9')            (9')            (9')
Preparation                                             W  O                                      L               L               LII]
Implementation                                        [                L     m                                    [     OII
Covenant Compliance                    L                   ]             W                        L                 W
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                      Highly             Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
(Pr)  (sm)                   (9')           (9e)              (9')           (9')          (9')            (9')
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



-41 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Project Title/                 Purpose           Year         Status
Loan No.                                    Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure      To improve land         1986     Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln. 2593-BR)   tenure and the legal           to institutional
and institutional               and policy
basis of land                   obstacles.
markets in the
Northeast.
2. Sergipe Rural Development Project    To improve the       1979     Closed 1985
(Tabuleiros Sul; Ln. 1714-BR)      incomes and living
standards of small
farm families
I Under the Polonordeste Program
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose            Year          Status
Loan No.                                       Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure       To improve land          1986      Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln.2593-BR)    tenure and the legal              to institutional
and institutional basis           and policy
of land markets in the            obstacles.
Northeast.
2. Rio Grande do Norte Rural          To improve the            1976     Closed 1984
Development Project (Ln.1 195-BR)    incomes of poor farm
families
I Under the Polonordeste Program



- 42 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Project Title/                 Purpose          Year          Status
Loan No.                                    Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure      To improve land        1986     Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln. 2593-BR)   tenure and the legal          to institutional
and institutional               and policy
basis of land                   obstacles.
markets in the
Northeast.
2. Bahia Rural Development Project   To improve the         1978     Closed 1985
(Paragua,u; Ln. 1589-BR)          incomes and living
standards of small
farm families.
3. Second Bahia Rural Development    To improve the         1983     Closed 1988
Project (Ln. 2269-BR)              incomes and living
standards of small
farm families.
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Project Title/                  Purpose           Year          Status
Loan No.                                      Approved
1. Northeast Region Land Tenure       To improve land          1986     Cancelled due
Improvement Project (Ln.2593-BR)    tenure and the legal             to institutional
and institutional basis           and policy
of land markets in the            obstacles.
Northeast.
2. Ibiapaba Rural Development Project    To improve the                 Closed 1985
(Ln. 1488-BR)                      incomes and living
standards of small
farm families
3. Second Ceara Rural Development     To improve the                    Closed 1986
Project (Ln. 1924-BR)              incomes and living
standards of small
farm families
1. Under the POLONORDESTE program.



- 43 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        --            1982
Preparation                                       --            1983
Appraisal                                         --            June 1984
Negotiations                                      --            February 22, 1985
Board Presentation                                --            April 30, 1985
Loan Signing                                      --            June 13, 1985
Loan Effectiveness                                --            December 12, 1985
Loan Closing                            June 30, 1993           December 31, 1995
Project Completion                      December 31, 1993       December 31, 1995
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification                                    --            1982
Preparation                                       --            1983
Appraisal                                         --            June 1984
Negotiations                                      --            February 18, 1985
Board Presentation                                --           April 30, 1985
Loan Signing                                      --           June 13, 1985
Loan Effectiveness                      September 12, 1985     May 7, 1986
Loan Closing                            June 30, 1993          December 31, 1995
Project Completion                      December 31, 1992      December 31, 1995



- 44 -
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Date Actual!
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        --            1982
Preparation                                       --            1983
Appraisal                                         --           November 1984
Negotiations                                      --            September 30, 1985
Board Presentation                                --           October 21, 1986
Loan Signing                                      --           July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                                --           October 19, 1987
Loan Closing                            March 31, 1995         December 31, 1995
Project Completion                      September 30, 1994     December 31, 1995
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification                                    --            1982
Preparation                                       --            1983
Appraisal                                         --           November 1985
Negotiations                                      --            July 7, 1986
Board Presentation                                --           October 21, 1986
Loan Signing                                      --           July 20, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                                --           October 19, 1987
Loan Closing                            March 31, 1995         December 31, 1995
Project Completion                      September 30, 1994     December 31, 1995



-45 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Fiscal Year     Appraisal Estimate        Actual1       Actual as % of
Estimate
1986                 6.30                4.81             76
1987                11.80                9.79             83
1988                20.12               16.23             81
1989                31.60               19.52             62
1990                42.00               25.91             62
1991                51.70               31.57             61
1992                58.60               32.91             56
1993                61.30               39.08             64
1994                61.30               43.32             71
1995                 --                 52.77             86
1996                 --                 60.30             98
Final Disbursement: May 31, 1996
US$10 million cancelled, December 1994



- 46 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate         Actual1        Actual as % of
Estimate
1986                  3.00                 3.39             113
1987                 11.40                 9.81              86
1988                 21.40                 15.29             71
1989                 31.00                 19.02             61
1990                 41.00                24.64              60
1991                 50.00                29.91              60
1992                 57.90                31.78              55
1993                 61.40                35.14              57
1994                 61.40                37.42              61
1995                 61.40                42.26              69
1996                  --                  49.20 2            80
Final Disbursement: July 10, 1996
l US$10.0 million cancelled, December 1994
2 Loan balance of US$0.2 million cancelled, November 12, 1996



-47 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate       Actual1       Actual as % of
Estimate 2
1987                16.0                 --                --
1988                39.20                 9.44            24
1989                63.20                20.62            33
1990                88.80                28.55            32
1991               114.80                49.95            44
1992               140.60                59.02            42
1993               156.00                59.29            38
1994               166.00                68.99            42
1995               171.00                89.48            52
1996                                    107.20            63
Final Disbursement: June 10, 1996
US $60.00 million canceled, December 1994
2 Loan balance of US$3.8 million cancelled, November 12, 1996



- 48 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate       Actual'       Actual as % of
Estimate
1987                 9.80
1988                20.10                 8.80            44
1989                36.60                18.96             52
1990                55.00                28.28            51
1991                75.80                36.74            48
1992                95.20                38.18            40
1993               107.50                43.85             41
1994               117.40                47.68            41
1995               122.00                55.18            45
1996               122.00                84.86 2          70
Final Disbursement: May 21, 1996
i US$30.0 million cancelled, December 1994
2 Loan balance of US$7.14 million cancelled, November 12, 1996



- 49 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Disbursements at reformulation were about 65% of the loan, the best perfoirmance
of the four states. Achievements under the main components were (with percentage of
appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: the State constructed
irrigation systems serving 605 ha (93%) and some 365 beneficiary families (target range
was 400-600 families); water supply systems vastly exceeded the target (650%), as did
the construction of cisterns (137%), although beneficiary families were less than expected
(62%); distribution of fingerlings was far lower than anticipated at 457,000 (30%), but
production facilities and production capacity met targets (100%); (ii) Agricultural
Research and Seed Production: the project financed 7 agro-ecological studies (116%) but
performed poorly in terms of research trials (8%) and farming tests (48%). The project
also financed the production of 63 tons of seeds and some 2 million seedlings (targets
established in ha); (iii) Agricultural Extension: performance was generally modest under
this component, with extension services benefiting some 13,400 families (75%), and the
setting up of 157 demonstration plots (16%) and 23 observation units; (iv) Rural Credit:
as in other states, this component floundered, benefiting only 1,380 families (21%); and
(v) APCR: this component was strong, financing some 360 subprojects for 79,000
beneficiaries, establishing 119 community facilities with 49,000 beneficiaries and
carrying out training programs benefiting about 1,686 families.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.



- 50 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
|       INDICATOR                     OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS       PAC/FUMAC         State Technical Unit (TU)   Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs were    Complied with
and Non-Governmental        held in the state by July 31, 1993, and updating
Organizations (NGOs)        workshops held by each July 31 thereafter,
trained in rules and        under TOR agreed with the Bank.
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical Implementation    Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with  Complied with
Manual.                     the Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
"Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos para a
Implementac ao do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC        Publicity.                  Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank   Complied with
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter
implemented as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC        Current situation of target  Baseline study of sample communities        Complied with
communities and pilot       regionally distributed in the state and pilot
municipalities.             municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC        Mobilization assistance.    List of NGOs and other agencies to assist    Complied with
communities in mobilization and organization
was available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
was updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC        Technical assistance.       List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and   Complied with
NGOs to assist communities in technical
aspects was available in the state by June 15,
1993 and was updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY   A municipal council with        Documentation certifying existence and       Complied with
appropriate representation  functioning of municipal council available from
has been established and is    each pilot municipality was available and
functioning in each pilot   verified by TUs, by Sept. 30, 1993.
municipality.
PAC/FUMAC        State and Loan funds for    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds  Complied with
approved projects are       from state budget and from Loan in state project
available in a timely manner   account to cover new approved subprojects, and
to communities.             available to communities in a timely manner, as
reported monthly to the Bank and SUDENE.
PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities)



-51 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
l_____   __INDICATOR        [        OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC        Community counterpart        Signed agreements with executing            Complied with
(Continued)                    funds for approved projects.   community/association explicit including
community's contribution to subproject cost.
PAC/FUMAC        Supervision.                At least 10% of approved subprojects have   Complied with
been inspected in the field by TU at any point
in time.
PAC/FUMAC    Administration.                 TUs are adequately staffed, both at state   Complied with
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public
assistance to communities, by July 3, 1993;
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC        Communities aware of and     Subproject proposals are being presented by  Complied with.
informed about program,     communities in at least 70% of eligible     90% of eligible
rules and procedures.       municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec.31,   municipalities
1993, and 90% by Dec.31, 1994.              presented
proposals.
FUMAC            Open municipal council      TUs and/or supervision missions participate in    Complied with
ONLY             meetings to discuss and     or are reliably informed about such meetings
agree on municipal list of  being held, in all pilot municipalities.
priority subprojects have
been held.
FUMAC            Municipal investment        At least 90% of pilot municipalities have    Complied with
ONLY             proposals are received,     submitted such proposals by Dec.31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved by
municipal councils.
PAC ONLY         Subproject proposals are    At least 150 of such subproject proposals    Complied with.
received and approved based   approved by Dec.31, 1993; and cumulatively  1,347 proposals
on community requests.      300 by June 30, 1994; and 650 by June 30,   were approved by
1995.                                       closing date.
PAC/FUMAC    Number of families directly    At least 3,700 families benefitted from       Complied with
benefitted.                 approved projects by Dec.31, 1993; 6,500 by
June 30, 1994; and 16,200 by June 30, 1995.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects approved by TU   At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank  Satisfactory
are eligible, technically and    and SUDENE and of those listed in monthly
economically sound, and     reports comply with criteria.
from eligible communities.



- 52 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
l_ _   __I INDICATOR            OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                     COMMENTS
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects are         Adherence to specifications, cost and time  Satisfactory
(Continued)                    implemented as          in 85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, within cost    subprojects in the state to be completed by
and time.               June 30 of each year starting in 1994.
PAC/FUMAC    Funds used only for         No evidence of misuse of funds in at least    Satisfactory
approved subprojects.    95% of cases, in a random sample of 50
subprojects, subjected to audit by June 30 of
each year starting in 1994.
IMPACT        PAC/FUMAC        Expressed community    Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample      Satisfactory
(Objectives)                   needs are satisfied.    communities are satisfied with the
subproject implemented, its design and their
own role (identification, design,
implementation, control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC        Projected employment    Employment targets in 80% of sample       Satisfactory
generated (productive   productive subprojects were reached one
subprojects only)       year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC        Projected incremental    In 80% of sample productive subprojects  Partially complied with.
income realized by      the projected incremental income was     Some incremental income
beneficiaries          realized, or an absolute income level of at  was realized, but the
(productive subprojects  least 2.5 minimum salaries was reached, one   absolute increase has not
only).                  and a half years after establishment.    yet been measured.
PAC/FUMAC        Subprojects sustained   80% of subprojects are being operated    Complied with. Funded
by community and/or     and/or maintained, one and a half years after  subprojects are being
municipality over time.   establishment.                         operated and maintained
by the communities
themselves.
FUMAC            Transparent and         A majority of a random sample of the target   Complied with. The
ONLY             participatory municipal   population in participating municipalities  population participating in
decision-making         expresses its satisfaction with the municipal  the seven FUMAC
process for investments   decision-making process, in at least 75% of   municipalities has
is adopted.             those municipalities.                    expressed satisfaction with
the municipal decision-
making process.
PAC/FUMAC        Organized community    At least 50% of the participating         Very satisfactory. Close to
pursuing further        communities in pilot municipalities remain    100% of the communities
communal development  organized and are engaged in further       which participated in the
interests.              communal pursuits.                       pilot phase remain
organized and have
proposed additional
community investments.



- 53 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Some 59% of estimated expenditures had been made prior to reformulation, due
to the same factors experienced in the other states. The main components showed mixed
results as follows (with percentage of appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water
Resources: the project financed the construction of 11 small irrigation schemes, providing
water to about 390 ha. (10%); the experimental fish hatchery station reached an annual
production of 1.4 million fingerlings for stocking (52%); 7 small dams were constructed
to provide supplementary irrigation (7%); in sharp contrast to irrigation, the construction
and rehabilitation of simple water supply systems for communities with less than 500
members far exceeded targets (650%); (ii) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production: the project carried out resource and agro-economic studies to identify major
research problems; some 400 short- and medium-term research trials were implemented
(65%) covering livestock and small farm crops, including manioc, beans, maize, cotton
and horticultural crops; 55 farm-level observation units were set up to test and adapt
integrated farm production system (100%); about 900 tons of maize, bean, cotton,
sorghum, rice and manioc were produced to improve available planting materials, and a
foundation flock of 45 goats and sheep (100%) was established to provide breeding stock
for small farmers; (iii) Agricultural Extension: technical assistance to 27,000 small
farmers per year (77%); established 1,042 demonstration plots (56%) and executed a
small-scale forestry program (100%); (iv) Rural Credit: the planned program of medium-
and long-term subloans did not succeed (details unavailable); (v) Marketing Services:
infrastructural and organization improvements were made to 6 municipal markets and
fairs (66%); 2 marketing facilities were built (66%); and, market information and
commercial orientation services were established but the record does not report on their
quality or substainability; and (vi) APCR: some 390 small rural community subprojects
were executed reaching about 12,000 families.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.



- 54 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
r ]   INDICATOR        J          OPERATIONAL CRITERIA               |   COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         State Technical Unit    Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs were   Complied with.
(TU) and Non-          held in the state by July 31, 1993, and updating
Governmental           workshops held by each July 31 thereafter,
Organizations (NGOs)   under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical               Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with the   Complied with.
Implementation         Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
Manual.                "Diretrizes e Crit6rios Basicos para a
Implementacao do Programa Reformnulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC         Publicity.              Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank    Complied with.
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter implemented
as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC         Current situation of    Baseline study of sample communities          Complied with.
target communities and   regionally distributed in the state and pilot
pilot municipalities.  municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC         Mobilization            List of NGOs and other agencies to assist     Complied with.
assistance.            communities in mobilization and organization is
available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical assistance.   List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and    Complied with.
NGOs to assist communities in technical aspects
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council         Documentation certifying existence and       Complied with.
with appropriate       functioning of municipal council available from
representation has been   each pilot municipality is available and verified
established and is     by TU, by Sept. 30, 1993.
functioning each pilot
municipality.
PAC/FUMAC         State and Loan Funds    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds  Delay in the release
for approved projects    from state budget and from Loan state project  of loan funds to the
are available in a timely  account to cover new approved subprojects, and   State after changes in
manner to              available to communities in a timely manner, as   the Ministry and in
communities.           reported monthly to the Bank and SUDENE.      the State
administration.
Regular flow was
resumed in 1995.
PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunit6rio (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities)



- 55 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                  OPERATIONAL CRITERIA               [   COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         Community counterpart  Signed agreements with executing             Complied with
(Continued)                     funds or resources for    community/association explicit including
approved projects.     community's contribution to subproject cost.
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC         Supervision            At least 10% of approved subprojects were    Done
inspected in the field by TU at any point in time.
PAC/FUMAC         Administration         TUs are adequately staffed, both at state    Done. At field level
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity    NGOs helped the
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise  communities with
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public    technical assistance.
assistance to communities, by July 31, 1993;
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
PAC/FUMAC         Communities aware of   Subproject proposals are being presented by  Done.
and informed about     communities in at least 70% of eligible
program, rules and     municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec.31,
procedures.            1993, and 90% by Dec.31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal council  TU and/or supervision missions participate in or   Done.
meetings to discuss and   are reliably informed about such meetings being
agree on municipal list   held, in all pilot municipalities.
of priority subprojects
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment    At least 90% of pilot municipalities have       Done.
proposals are received,   submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved
by municipal councils.
PAC ONLY          Subproject proposals   At least 150 of such subproject proposals    Done. (769
are received and       approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively  subprojects financed
approved based on      350 by June 30, 1994; 700 by June 30, 1995   by Closing Date)
community requests.
PAC/FUMAC        Number of families      At least 3,700 families benefited from approved    Done. 71,600
directly benefited.    projects by Dec. .31, 1993; 8,700 by June 30,  families benefited by
1994; 17,500 by June 30, 1995               Closing date.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects approved   At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank and   Done.
by TU are eligible,    SUDENE of those listed in monthly reports
technically and        comply with criteria.
economically sound,
and from eligible
communities.
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects are        Adherence to specifications, cost and time in  Done.
(Continued)                     implemented as         85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost and  subprojects in the state to be completed by June
time.                  30 of each year starting in 1994.



- 56-
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
J                 ] l    INDICATOR         [         OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                |    COMMENTS
PAC/FUMAC         Funds used only for     No evidence of misuse of funds in at least 95%  Complied with.
approved subprojects.    of cases, in a random sample of 50 subprojects,
subjected to audit by June 30 of each year
starting in 1994.
IMPACT        PAC/FUMAC          Expressed community    Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample          Partially done.
(Objectives)                     needs are satisfied.    communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation, control)
in the process.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected employment   Employment targets in 80% of sample             Partially done.
generated (productive   productive subprojects have been reached one
subprojects only)       year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected incremental    In 80% of sample productive subprojects the   Partially done.
income realized by      projected incremental income has been realized,
beneficiaries.          or an absolute income level of at least 2.5
minimum salaries has been reached, one and a
half years after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects sustained   80% of subprojects are being operated and/or   Done.
by community and/or     maintained, one and a half years after
municipality over time.   establishment.
FUMAC             Transparent and         A majority of a random sample of the target    Done.
ONLY              participatory municipal   population in participating municipalities
decision-making         expresses satisfaction with the municipal
process for investments   decision-making process, in at least 75% of
is adopted.             those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC         Organized community    At least 50% of the participating communities in   Done.
pursuing further        pilot municipalities remain organized and are
communal development  engaged in further communal pursuits, of any
interests.              kind.



-57 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation I
Less than 35% of projected expenditures had been made by the reformulation.2
Delays resulted mainly from shortfalls and irregularities in the provision of counterpart
funds. The following was achieved (with percentage of appraisal target shown in
parentheses): Water Resources: feasibility studies were completed on the irrigation
potential of 3,516 ha. (32%); 111 small irrigation schemes were constructed covering an
area of 2,291 ha.; 1,607 simple water supply systems were built in communities of less
than 5000 inhabitants (65 0%); some 1.16 million fish fingerlings for ponds and lakes
(versus the target of 1.2 million per year) were produced and distributed; (ii) Agricultural
Research and Basic Seed Production: 19 natural resource and agro-economic studies were
completed (76%), 217 short- and medium-term applied crop research trials were carried
out to improve crop production technology (54%), 334 farm-level observation units were
established to test and adapt integrated farm production systems (185%); and seeds were
produced on 75 ha. per year for the testing and introduction of higher yielding varieties of
maize, cotton, sorghum and rice (20%); no information is available on forestry research
trials to identify appropriate fodder, fuelwood and fruit species; (iii) Agricultural
Extension: some 89,000 beneficiaries received technical assistance (111%); 930
demonstration plots (19%) and 22 goat foundation flocks (no target) were established;
(iv) Rural Credit: medium- and long-term subloans were granted for 14,924 project
beneficiaries to finance on-farm investments (50%); (v) Marketing Services: 110 retail
food shops (186%) and 3 marketing centers (73%) were constructed; and (vi) APCR:
1,512 widely-varying productive subprojects and 851 small rural infrastructure schemes
were implemented, benefiting about 52,000 families.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list.
2 Effective date of the reformulation was September 28, 1993.



- 58 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR                  OPERATIONAL CRITERIA               |    COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         State Technical Unit    Training seminars for TUs and for NGOs have    Done
(TU) and Non-          been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Governmental           updating workshops held by each July 31
Organizations (NGOs)   thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
trained in rules and
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical               Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with  Done
Implementation         the Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
Manual.                "Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos para a
Implementacao do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC         Publicity.              Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank   Done
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter
implemented as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC         Current situation of    Baseline study of sample communities        Done
target communities and   regionally distributed in the state and pilot
pilot municipalities.  municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC         Mobilization            List of NGOs and other agencies to assist   Done
assistance.            communities in mobilization and organization
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical assistance.   List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and   Done
NGOs to assist communities in technical
aspects is available in the state by June 15,
1993 and updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council         Documentation certifying existence and      Complied with
with appropriate       functioning of Municipal Council available
representation has been   from each pilot municipality and verified by
established and is     TU, by Sept. 30, 1993.
functioning in each
pilot municipality.
PAC/FUMAC         State and Loan Funds    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds  Complied with
for approved projects    from state budget and from Loan state project
are available in a timely  account to cover new approved subprojects,
manner to              and available to communities in a timely
communities.           manner, as reported monthly to the Bank and
SUDENE.
PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities)



-59 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
|__ _  [ INDICATOR               OPERATIONAL CRITERIA               |    COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         Community counterpart  Signed agreements with executing              Complied with
(Continued)                     funds or resources for    community/association explicitly including
approved projects.     community's contribution to subproject cost.
PAC/FUMAC         Supervision.            At least 10% of approved subprojects have   Done
been inspected in the field by TU at any point
in time.
PAC/FUMAC         Administration.         TU is adequately staffed, both at state     TU adequately staffed
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity   at state headquarters.
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise  At field level, TU
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public   increased the number
assistance to communities, by July 31, 1993;  of its regional officers.
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC         Communities aware of   Subproject proposals are being presented by   Complied with
and informed about     communities in at least 70% of eligible
program, rules and     municipalities (PAC and FUMAC by Dec. 31,
procedures.             1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal council  TU and/or supervision missions witness or are    Done
meetings to discuss and   reliably informed about such meetings being
agree on municipal list   held, in all pilot municipalities.
of priority subprojects,
have been held.
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment    At least 90% of pilot municipalities have       Complied with
proposals are received,   submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved
by municipal councils.
PAC ONLY          Subproject proposals    At least 400 of such subproject proposals   2,701 subproject
are received and       approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively    proposals were
approved based on       1,000 by June 30, 1994; and 2,000 by June 30,   approved and financed
community requests      1995; and 3,000 by project closing date.
PAC/FUMAC         Number of families      At least 10,000 families benefited with     Complied with
directly benefited     approved projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 25,000 by
June 30, 1994; and 50,000 by June 30, 1995;
and 75.000 by project closing date.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects approved    At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank  Complied with
by TU are eligible,    and SUDENE, of those listed in monthly
technically and        reports, comply with criteria
economically sound,
and from eligible
communities



- 60 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
|___ _  I INDICATOR              OPERATIONAL CRITERIA               |    COMMENTS
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC          Subprojects are        Adherence to specifications, cost and time in  Complied with
(Continued)                     implemented as          85% of cases in a random sample of 50
approved, with cost and   subprojects in the state to be completed by June
time                   30 of each year starting in 1994.
PAC/FUMAC         Funds used only for     No evidence of misuse of funds in at least 95%    Complied with
approved subprojects    of cases, in a random sample of 50 subprojects,
subjected to audit by June 30 of each year
starting in 1994.
IMPACT        PAC/FUMAC         Expressed community    Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample         Complied with
(Objectives)                    needs are satisfied.    communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation,
control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected employment   Employment targets in 80% of sample          Partially complied
generated (productive    productive subprojects have been reached one    with
subprojects only.)     year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected incremental    In 80% of sample productive subprojects the  Partially complied
income realized by     projected incremental income has been        with
beneficiaries.         realized, or an absolute income level of at least
2.5 minimum salaries has been reached, one
and a half years after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects sustained   80% of subprojects are being operated and/or    Done
by community and/or    maintained, one and a half year after
municipality over time.   establishment.
FUMAC             Transparent and         A majority of a random sample of the target  Done
ONLY              participatory municipal   population in participating municipalities
decision-making        expresses satisfaction with the municipal
process for investments  decision-making process, in at least 75% of
is adopted.            those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC         Organized community    At least 50% of the participating communities    Done
pursuing further       in pilot municipalities remain organized and are
communal development  engaged in further communal pursuits, of any
interests.             kind.



-61 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
A. Pre-Reformulation i
Disbursements at reformulation were only 37% of the loan. The unsatisfactory
project funding situation remained the principle obstacle hindering implementation. Most
components were either paralyzed or under-performing, but there were success stories
among different activities. The project achieved the following (with percentage of
appraisal target shown in parentheses): (i) Water Resources: feasibility studies on the
irrigation potential of areas covering 5,700 ha; construction of 9 public irrigation schemes
providing 2,670 ha with irrigation (42%); construction of 80 simple water supply systems
(500%) and the rehabilitation of 73 such systems in communities with 500 inhabitants;
and the production and distribution of 6.1 million fish fingerlings; (ii) Agricultural
Research and Basic Seed Production: completion of 7 agro-ecological and natural
resource studies; 256 short- and medium-term applied research subprojects (30%) to
improve crop production technology; establishment of 47 farm-level observation units
(130%) to test and adapt integrated production systems; and the production of seeds on
310 ha per year (about 5 0%), including cotton, maize, beans and sorghum; (iii)
Agricultural Extension: technical assistance was delivered to 44,000 project beneficiaries
per year (project overall target was 122,800); 2,621 demonstration plots and farms were
established (640%); and 2.4 million tree seedlings were produced (60%) to implement a
small-scale forestry project; and (iv) Rural Credit: no data is available2; (v) Marketing
Services: facilities were established for storage and input supplies for agricultural
products at the cooperative, and establishment of posts to strengthen the State crop
purchasing network; and (vi) APCR: implemented 653 small community subprojects
reaching 25,000 families.
State provided pre-reformulation data/achievements in the form shown, which was not directly
comparable with original indicator list
A Rural Investment Credit component is mentioned in the SAR but not shown in supervision key
performance indicators.



- 62 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
INDICATOR                  OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                   COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC         State Technical Unit (TU)   Training seminars for TU and for NGOs have    Complied with.
and Non-Governmental      been held in the state by July 31, 1993, and
Organizations (NGOs)      updating workshops held by each July 31
trained in rules and     thereafter, under TOR agreed with the Bank.
procedures.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical Implementation    Prepared by June 30, 1993 in agreement with    Complied with.
Manual.                  the Bank on the basis of the March 12, 1993
"Diretrizes e Criterios Basicos para a
Implementa,ao do Programa Reformulado de
Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (PAPP)".
PAC/FUMAC         Publicity.                Publicity campaign proposal submitted to Bank   Complied with.
by June 30, 1993, and campaign initiated in the
state by Sept. 1, 1993 and thereafter
implemented as agreed with the Bank.
PAC/FUMAC         Current situation of target   Baseline study of sample communities   Complied with.
communities and pilot     regionally distributed in the state and pilot
municipalities.           municipalities completed by Sept. 30, 1993.
PAC/FUMAC         Mobilization assistance.  List of NGOs and other agencies to assist  Complied with.
communities in mobilization and organization
is available in the state by June 15, 1993 and
updated annually thereafter.
PAC/FUMAC         Technical assistance.     List of suitable individuals, firms, agencies and   Complied with.
NGOs to assist communities in technical
aspects is available in the state by June 15,
1993 and updated annually thereafter.
FUMAC ONLY    A municipal council with    Documentation certifying existence and       Complied with.
appropriate representation    functioning of municipal council available
has been established and is  from each pilot municipality is available and
functioning in each pilot  verified by TU, by Sept. 30, 1993.
municipality.
PAC/FU MAC        State and Loan Funds for    At beginning of each month, sufficient funds  Release of the loan
approved projects are    from state budget and from Loan state project   funds was delayed
available in a timely     account to cover new approved subprojects,  until May 1995, but
manner to communities.    and available to communities in a timely   subsequently
manner, as reported monthly to the Bank and  normalized.
SUDENE.
PAC/FUMAC         Community counterpart     Signed agreements with executing           Complied with.
funds or resources for    community/association are explicit and
approved projects.       including community's contribution to
subproject cost.
PAC: Programa de Apoio Comunitario (Support to Small Rural Communities Program)
FUMAC: Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario (Pilot Municipal Fund Program for Support to Small Rural Communities)



- 63 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR                   OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                    COMMENTS
INPUTS        PAC/FUMAC          Supervision.               At least 10% of approved subprojects have    Complied with.
(Continued)                                                 been inspected in the field by TU at any point
in time.
PAC/FUMAC         Administration.            TUs are adequately staffed, both at state    Complied with.
headquarters and in field offices, with capacity
to receive, appraise, approve and supervise
subprojects, and to facilitate private and public
assistance to communities, by July 31, 1993;
staffing increased as necessary to expanding
work requirements.
RESULTS        PAC/FUMAC         Communities aware of and   Subproject proposals are being presented by  Complied with.
informed about program,    communities in at least 70% of eligible
rules and procedures.     municipalities (PAC and FUMAC) by Dec. 31,
1993, and 90% by Dec. 31, 1994.
FUMAC ONLY    Open municipal council         TUs and/or supervision missions witness or are   Complied with.
meetings to discuss and   reliably informed about such meetings being
agree on municipal list of    held, in all pilot municipalities.
priority subprojects have
been held.
FUMAC ONLY    Municipal investment           At least 90% of pilot municipalities have    Complied with.
proposals are received,   submitted such proposals by Dec. 31, 1993.
based on community
priorities and approved by
municipal councils.
PAC ONLY          Subproject proposals are   At least 250 of such subproject proposals    Done
received and approved     approved by Dec. 31, 1993; and cumulatively
based on community        750 by June 30, 1994; 1,500 by June 30, 1995
requests.                 and 2,000 by project completion.
PAC/FUMAC         Number of families         At least 6,200 families benefited with approved   Complied with.
directly benefited.       projects by Dec. 31, 1993; 18,700 by June 30,
1994; 37,500 by June 30, 1995 and 50,000 by
project completion.
PAC/FUMAC         Subprojects approved by    At least 85% of subprojects visited by Bank  Complied with.
TU are eligible, technically   and SUDENE of those listed in monthly
and economically sound,    reports comply with criteria.
and from eligible
communities.
PAC/FUMAC          Subprojects are           Adherence to specifications, cost and time in  Complied with.
implemented as approved,   85% of cases in a random sample of 50
with cost and time.       subprojects in the state to be completed by
June 30 of each year starting in 1994.



- 64 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
B. Post-Reformulation
(Continued)
INDICATOR          [        OPERATIONAL CRITERIA                    COMMENTS
RESULTS       PAC/FUMAC          Funds used only for        No evidence of misuse of funds in at least 95%    Complied with.
(Continued)                      approved subprojects.      of cases, in a random sample of 50 subprojects,
subjected to audit by June 30 of each year
starting in 1994.
IMPACT        PAC/FUMAC          Expressed community        Two-thirds of beneficiaries in sample        Complied.
(Objectives)                     needs are satisfied.       communities are satisfied with the subproject
implemented, its design and their own role
(identification, design, implementation,
control) in the process.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected employment       Employment targets in 80% of sample          Partially complied
generated (productive     productive subprojects have been reached one    with.
subprojects only).        year after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC         Projected incremental      In 80% of sample productive subprojects the  Partially complied
income realized by        projected incremental income has been        with.
beneficiaries.            realized, or an absolute income level of at least
2.5 minimum salaries has been reached, one
and a half years after establishment.
PAC/FUMAC          Subprojects sustained by  80% of subprojects are being operated and/or    Complied.
community and/or          maintained, one and a half year after
municipality over time.    establishment.
FUMAC             Transparent and            A majority of a random sample of the target  Complied.
ONLY              participatory municipal    population in participating municipalities
decision-making process   expresses satisfaction with the municipal
for investments is adopted.   decision-making process, in at least 75% of
those municipalities.
PAC/FUMAC         Organized community        At least 50% of the participating communities    Complied.
pursuing further communal  in pilot municipalities remain organized and
development interests.    are engaged in further communal pursuits.



- 65 -
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Study            Purpose as Defined at        Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility studies    To determine areas with         Done                  n/a
irrigation potential
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Study            Purpose as Defined at        Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility Studies     To determine areas with        Done                  n/a
irrigation potential
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Study            Purpose as Defined at        Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility studies     To determine areas with        Done            Various schemes
irrigation potential                            implemented.
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Study            Purpose as Defined at        Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Feasibility Studies    To support the development      Done            Various schemes
of the State verification plan                   constructed.
and preparation of irrigation
projects



- 66 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate l                 Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local   Foreign                     Local         Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total        Costs          Costs          Total
1. Project Cost         111.6        18.7      130.3          94.8           19.0        113.8
2. Loan Amount            42.6       18.7        61.3         42.3           19.0          61.3
3.  - Disbursed            -           -          -           50.0           10.3          60.3
4.  - Canceled             -           -          -             -              -            1.0 3
1.  Original project, pre-refornulaiton
2.  Post-reformulation project
3.  Cancellation, 1994
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                   Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local           Foreign           Local            Foreign
Costs            Costs            Costs             Costs
IBRD                               42.6               18.7             50.0             10.3
Federal Government                 69.0               --               --               --
State Government of                 --                --               53.5             --
Sergipe
Beneficiaries 3                     --                 --              --               --
Total                             111.6               18.7           103.5             10.3
1.  Federal Govemment, pre-reformulation
2.  State Government, post-reformulation
3.  Post-reformulation. Amount included under State contribution



- 67 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate 1                Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local   Foreign                    Local         Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total       Costs          Costs         Total
1. Project Cost         115.4       20.8      136.2         81.5           15.9         97.4
2. Loan Amount           40.6       20.8       61.4          45.5          15.9         61.4
3. - Disbursed            -           -          -           42.7           2.5         51.2
4. - Canceled              -          -          -            -              -           10.2 3
1.  Original project, pre-reformulation
2.  Post-reformulation
3.  Final Loan balance of US$0.2 million cancelled, November 12, 1996.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                   Appraisal Estimate 1            Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local          Foreign           Local           Foreign
Costs           Costs            Costs            Costs
IBRD                              40.6              20.8             42.7             8.5
Federal Government                74.8
State Government                   --               --               46.2
.3
Beneficiaries 3
Total                            115.4              20.8             88.9             8.5
1.  Federal Government, pre-reformulation
2.  State Govemment, post-reformulation
3.  Post-reformulation. Amount included under State contribution



- 68 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                 Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate2
Local   Foreign                     Local        Foreign
Costs      Costs       Total        Costs         Costs          Total
1. Project Cost         309.4       46.8       356.2        163.6           34.9        198.5
2.  Loan Amount         124.2        46.8      171.0         136.1          34.9        171.0
3.  - Disbursed            -          -           -          87.9           19.3        107.2
4.  - Canceled             -          -           -            -              -          63.8 3
1. Original project, pre-reformulaiton
2. Post-reformulation project
3. Total cancellations, of which US$3.8 million still pending.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                   Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local          Foreign           Local            Foreign
Costs            Costs           Costs             Costs
IBRD                              124.2              46.8             87.9            19.3
Federal Government               185.2                -                -                -
State Government                    -                 -              91.3
Beneficiaries 3
Total                            309.4               46.8           179.2             19.3
1. Federal Government, pre-reformulation
2. State Government, post-reformulation
3. Post-reformulation. Amount included under State contribution.



- 69 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                Appraisal Estimate 1               Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local   Foreign                   Local        Foreign
Costs     Costs       Total        Costs        Costs         Total
1. Project Cost        226.5       27.8      254.3        128.7          27.8        156.5
2. Loan Amount          94.2       27.8      122.0         94.2          27.8        122.0
3. - Disbursed            -          -          -          69.5          15.4         84.86
4. - Canceled             -          -          -            -             -          37.143
1. Original project, pre-reformulation
2. Post-reformulation
3. Of which cancellation of US$7.14 million still pending.
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                  Appraisal Estimate I            Actual/Latest Estimate 2
Local          Foreign          Local           Foreign
Costs           Costs           Costs            Costs
IBRD                             94.2              27.8            69.5            15.4
Federal Government              132.3              --              --              --
State Government of Ceara         --               --              71.6            --
Beneficiaries3                    --               --              --              --
Total                           226.5              27.8           141.1            15.4
1. Federal Government, pre-reformulation
2. State Government, post-reformulation
3. Post-reformulation. Amount included under State contribution



- 70 -
BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2523-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original          Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present      Fulfillment       Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section                 Type            Status          Date              Date                   Covenant                       Comments
Loan             Schedule 1.               3               C                                           Conditions for with drawals under
para. 3(b) (c)                                                                        Categories (9), (13), (15)
Schedule 5                10              C                                           Terms, conditions and procedures   Credit component
for subloans                      discontinued with
reformulation
2.08                      5               C                                           Secretary of Treasury designated
as Borrower's representative
3.01(a)                   5               C                                           Borrower declares its commitment  Amendment letter became
to objectives of the project (as per   effective Sept. 20, 1993
Schedule 2)
3.01(c)(i)                3               C                                           Borrower to take all actions       Conditions of
required to regulate funding      Effectiveness of the
procedures                        Amending Agreement
3.01(d)                   4               C                                           Federal counterpart funding        According to the
Amendment letters,
counterpart funds were to
be provided by the State
3.01 (f)(i)               5               C                                           Agreement with each participating  Not required. Credit
Bank                              component was
discontinued
Note:             The following list of covenant types applies to all four states under Table 8:
Covenant Type     I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilizationof Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of
the Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; I1 Sectoral or
cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status           C         =covenant complied with        NC       =not complied with
CD       =complied with after delay     NYD      =not yet due
CP       =complied with partially       SOON    =compliance expected in reasonably short time



-71 -
BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2523-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised               Description
Covenant        Present      Fulfillment    Fulfillment                of
Agreement       Section                Type           Status         Date           Date                 Covenant                       Comments
3.01 (g)                4               C                                      Provision of funds needed to    Credit Component
finance the costs of any subsidies  discontinued
related to credit
3.01 (i)                 5              C                                      Review of ihe Program, not later   Project reformulation made the
than June 30, 1993             review unnecessary. New
covenants were added to
include a special review of the
Municipal Fund to support
community investment
(FUMAC)
3.02 (i-ii)             3               C                                      Submission of Annual plan of    Annual Operating Plan (POA)
operation and budget           for 1995 approved by the
Bank.
3.03 (a)                3               C                                      Procurement in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 of
the Project Agreement.
4.01                     1              C                                      Audit of Special Accounts
4.02                     1              C                                      Separate account for each
Federal executing agency
4.03                     1              C                                      Audit of accounts of each
Federal executing agency
Project         2.01 (a)                 5              C                                      State commitment to carry out
the Project with due diligence
and effeciency
2.01 (b)                 5              C                                      Agreements with Community       Contracts signed with various
Association                    associations (PAC, FUMAC
and productive subprojects)
Status           C       =covenant complied with       NC       =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay    NYD    -not yet due
CP      =complied with partially      SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 72 -
BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2523-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised              Description
Covenant        Present      Fulfillment    Fulfillment                of
Agreement       Section                Type           Status         Date           Date                 Covenant                      Comments
2.01 (c)                9               C                                      Monitoring and evaluation      New monitoring (SSMP) and
(M&E)                          evaluation report format with
reformulation
2.01 (d)                3               C                                      Proposal of annual operating    POA for 1995 approved by the
plan (POA)                     Bank
2.01 (e)                5               C                                      Preparation, appraisal, execution,
monitoring and evaluation of
subprojects in accordance with
Schedule 1.
2.01 (f)                 5              C                                      Agreement for the provisional
execution of subprojects
2.01 (g)                10              C                                      Preparation of subprojects by not  Procurement done by
later than 2/22/92             associations, assisted by the
Project Technical Unit for the
State of Sergipe (PRONESE).
New rules applied under
ongoing reformulation
2.02                    3               C                                      Procurement of goods and
works, and employment of
consultants
2.05 (b)                10              C                                      Final designs of Jacarecica dam
and inspection of Jacarecica and
Jabiberi dams
2.06                     5              C          2/22/92                     Carry out Part F in accordance
with Operational Manual
2.08                    10              C          8/15/93                     Publicity campaign
Status           C       =covenant complied with       NC      =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay    NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially      SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 73 -
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2524-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original        Revised                Description
Covenant        Present     Fulfillment      Fulfillment                 of
Agreement       Section               Type           Status         Date            Date                  Covenant                     Comments
Loan           2.08                     5              C                                        Secretary of Treasury designated
as Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)                5              CP                                       Federal Commitment to carry out   Project reformulation
rural credit component          discontinued rural credit
component. Amendment
letter became effective
September 2, 1993.
3.01 (c)                10             C                                        Refers to settlement targets as  Settlement component
defined in PA (Section 3.03)    discontinued after project
reformulation.
3.01 (e)                3              C                                        Efficient federal mechanism for    Regular flow resumed.
passing funds to State
3.01 (f)                5              CP                                       Federal Commitment on           Credit Component
mechanism to carry out rural    discontinued with Project
credit component                reformulation.
3.01 (g)(h)             3              CP                                       Participating Bank obligation to    Credit discontinued with
provide adequate working Capital  reformulation.
for credit receipients
3.01 (i)                5              C                                        Participating Bank obligation to    Credit component
provide monthly information     discontinued.
Status          C        =covenant complied with              NC       =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay            NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially              SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 74 -
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2524-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised              Description
Covenant        Present     Fulfillment     Fulfillment               of
Agreement       Section               Type           Status         Date            Date                Covenant                      Comments
4.01                    1              C                                      Audit of Special Accounts
4.02, 4.03              1              C                                      Accounts and Audit of Central
Bank
Project         2.01 (a)(b)             10             C                                      State commitment to execute
Project with due diligence and in
accordance with Plan of Action
2.01 (c)                10             C                                      Quarterly reporting by Technical  With Project reformulation,
Unit (TU)                      State has submitted to the
Bank and to SUDENE reports
based on the newly located
Simplified Project Monitoring
System (SSMP).
2.01 (d)                3              C                                      Mutual obligation of State and  Project reformulation
SUDENE to prepare annual plan   transferred this responsibility
and budget                     to the State.
2.01                    3              C                                      State to respect procurement
regulations.
2.06                    10             C                                     Carrying out of Part F of the   In general State carried out
reformulated Project in        Part F in a satisfactory
accordance with the Operational   manner. Some operational
Manual                         corrections were required and
registered in Aides Memoire
by missions.
2.08                    10             C                                     Carrying out a publicity
campaign.
Status          C        =covenant complied with               NC      =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay            NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially              SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 75 -
BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2761-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original        Revised                Description
Covenant        Present     Fulfillment      Fulfillment                 of
Agreement       Section               Type           Status         Date            Date                  Covenant                     Comments
Loan            2.08                    5              C                                        Secretary of Treasurer designated
as Borrower's representative
3.01                    10            CP                                        Refer to Project Agreement      Component discontinued
targets for area settled.       with Project reformulation.
3.01(d)                 4             CP                                        Federal counterpart funds       Counterpart funds
provided by the State
instead of Federal
Government with Project
reformulation
3.01(e)                 3              C                                        Efficient federal mechanism for    Regular flow of funds
passing funds to States         resumed.
3.01(f)(i)(a)           5             CP                                        Federal commitment on           Rural credit component
mechanism to carry out credit   discontinued with Project
component                       reformulation
3.01(f)(i)(b)           3             CP                                        Participating Bank obligation to    No need for participating
provide adequate working capital   Bank since rural credit
discontinued
3.03                    3              C                                        SUDENE's obligation to provide   Project reformulation gave
the Bank with advance annual   this responsibility to the
plan, final budgets and changes in  State.
planning procedures, in timely
fashion for comment
Status          C        =covenant complied with       NC      =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay   NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially     SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 76 -
BRAZIL
BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2761-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original          Revised                 Description
Covenant         Present      Fulfillment       Fulfillment                    of
Agreement        Section                 Type            Status          Date              Date                   Covenant                        Comments
4.01                      1               C                                           Audit of Special Accounts
4.02, 4.03                1               C                                           Audit of Financial Statement
5.01 (b)                  10              C                                           Remedy for rural credit non-       Component discontinued
performance
Project          2.06                      5               C                                           Carrying out Part F of the
reformulated project in
accordance with the Operational
Manual
2.08                      10              C                                           Carry out publicity campaign
Status            C        =covenant complied with        NC       =not complied with
CD       =complied with after delay     NYD       =not yet due
CP       =complied with partially        SOON    =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 77 -
BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2763-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original        Revised              Description
Covenant      Present     Fulfillment     Fulfillment                 of
Agreement       Section              Type         Status         Date            Date                 Covenant                         Comments
Loan            2.08                   5            C                                       Secretary of Treasury designated
as Borrower's representative
3.01 (a)               5           CP                                      Federal Commitment to carry     Rural credit component
out rural credit component     discontinued with Project
reformulation. Amendment letter
effective September 2, 1993.
3.01 (b)              10            C                                      Federal Commitment to cause
State to perform according to
Project Agreement (PA)
3.01 (c)              10           CP                                      Refers to settlement targets as  Settlement component discontinued
defined in PA.                 after project reformulation.
3.01 (d)               4           CP                                      Federal counterpart funding     Counterpart funds were provided by
State instead of Federal Government
after Project reformulation
3.01 (e)               3            C                                      Efficient federal mechanism for   Regular flow of funds recently
passing funds to States.       resumed.
3.01 (f)(i)(a)        10            C                                      Orienting terms and conditions    Project reformulation discontinued
for rural credit component     credit component.
3.01 (f)(i)(b)         3           CP                                      Participating Bank obligation to   No need for participating banks
provide adequate working       since credit component discontinued
capital
3.01 (f)(i)(c)         5            C                                      Participating Bank obligation to   As above
provide monthly information
Statua           C        =covenant complied with               NC       =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay             NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially               SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 78 -
BRAZIL
CEARA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2763-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised                  Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      of
Agreement   Section           Type       Status       Date           Date                    Covenant                               Comments
3.02              3          C                                    SUDENE's obligation to provide the    State assumed this responsibility following
Bank with advance annual plan, final    Project reformulation
budget and changes in planning
procedures, in a timely manner.
4.01              1          C                                    Audit of Spcial Account
Project       2.01 (a)(b)       5          C                                     State commitment to execute Project
with due diligence and according to
Plan of Action.
2.01 (c)          5          C                                    Mutual obligation of State and        With Project reformulation, State line
executing agency, defined by contract   agencies no longer expected to participate
in the Project except on a voluntary basis
(accredited agents)
2.01 (d)          5          C                                     Quarterly reporting by Technical Unit   With Project reformulation State submitted
(TU)                                 to the Bank and SUDENE, reports based
on the newly-created SSMP.
2.01 (e)          5          C                                    Reorganize TU and provide qualified
staff
2.01 (f)          5          C                                    TU obligation to provide annual plan
(POA)
2.02              3          C                                    State to respect procurement
regulations
2.06              5          C                                    Carrying out Part F of the reformulated
Project in accordance with the
Operational Manual
2.08             10          C                                    Carrying out publicity campaign
Status           C        =covenant complied with               NC       =not complied with
CD      =complied with after delay             NYD    =not yet due
CP      =complied with partially               SOON   =compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 79 -
TABLE 9. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Introduction:
1.    The Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) was not re-calculated for the original
projects (pre-reformulation) for reasons stated in Part 1, para. 90. The reformulated projects
were part of a program of targeted interventions based on a demand-driven mechanism of which
the costs, benefits and rates of return could not be determined ex ante. IERRs were not
calculated for the reformulated projects and thus there is no "re-calculation" of the IERRs for this
ICR. For a discussion of the results of recent FAO/World Bank analyses (1995 and 1996) of
socio-economic benefits and cost-effectiveness of sample productive subprojects under the
NRDP, see Part 1, paras. 91-95 and Tables 9A-9D below. Tables 9A and 9B are based on
sample data from all ten states in the NRDP (the 1995 analysis), whereas Tables 9C and 9D are
based on state-specific data for Rio Grande do Norte (the 1996 analysis).



- 80 -
TABLE 9A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE1
Project     Total No. of    Total No. of     Cost per    Total No.   Total Net       Total Net      Total       Internal     Cost Effectiveness
Type       Subprojeets    Beneficiaries    Beneficiary    of Jobs   Incremental  Incremental  Incremental    Econ.           Total       Social
being                          (US$)       Created    Income per   Income per   Crop Area    Rate of   Investment   Benefit-
Implemented                                                  Year       Beneficiary      (ha)       Return       per Job       Cost
and/or                                                   (US$)        per Year                     (%)       Created       Ratio2'
Completed                                                                (US$)                                   (US$)
Infrastructure
- Rural water       976         138,592          142           --           --            --            --           --         --           --
supply
- Rural             758          36,384          400           --           --            --            --           --          --          --
electrification
Productive
- Manioc mills      380          39,520          297         11,460       14,890         377           7,900        > 50       1,273       > 3.0
- Tractors for      198          15,048          438          9,900       11,587         770          36,080        > 50        816        > 3.0
communal use
- Rice mills         62           2,932          234            398         968          330           1,220        > 50      2,895        > 3.0
- Clothes            88           7,360          109          1,583        1,400         190            --          > 50        925        > 3.0
making
Social
- House             116           8,236          461             --           --           --           --           --         --           --
improvement
- Child care         29           2,639          290             --         605          229            --         > 50         --         > 3.0
centers
1/  Based on data from all ten states in the NRDP. Analysis for individual states of Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe is not available.
2/  Real discount rate is 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1995



- 81 -
TABLE 9B. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS1-
Item/Project                 Manioc Mill           Rice Mill         Farm Tractor
Number of associations                         380                   62                   198
Average net income per association           3,737                2,131                 6,631
(US$) 2'
Average cost of subproject (US$)            20,000               11,000               33,300
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                 12                   12                    10
To build replacement fund (years) 3/              5                   5                     5
1/ Based on data from all ten states in the NRDP. Analysis for individual states of Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe is not
available.
2/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
3/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original investment,
which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest rate is assumed to
be 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1995



- 82 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
(Loan 2524-BR)
TABLE 9C. SOCIO-ECONoMIc BENEFITS OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS BY MAIN SUBPROJECT TYPE1'
Project      Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per       Total      Total Net      Total Net       Total         Internal Rate of         Cost Effectiveness
Type        Subprojects    Beneficiaries   Beneficiary    No. of    Incremental   Incremental  Incremental             Return              Total         Social
being         (Families)      (US$)        Jobs       Income per   Income per   Crop Area   Financial  Economic  Investment              Benefit-
Implemented                                   Created       Year        Beneficiary       (ha)                                per Job         Cost
and/or                                                   (US$)        per Year         ()                                  Created        Ratio 2
Completed                                                                (US$)                                                (US$)
Infrastructure
- Rural water supply   49            6,826          169                -             --            --            --                --           --             --
(12%)
- Streetpaving(5%)     21            3,160          160         --           --             --            --           --          --
- Rural                32            2,156          258         --           --             --            --           --          --           --             --
electrification (8%)
Productive
- Manioc mills (5%)    22            1,606          279         387          249            156          484           30          38         1,159            1.4
- Cashew nut           25              875          648       2,044          662            757           n/a         > 50         63          277             1.2
processing (6%)
- Tractors for         49            2,205          801       1,174          505           229          7,497          31          48         1,505            1.1
communal use
(12%)
- Dairying (4%)        15              735          738        n/a           104            141            --          10          14                          1.0
- Clothes making       48            2,075          500       1,392          346            167            --          45          n/a          746            1.4
(12%)
Social
- Latrines (5%)        21            1,302          366         --           --             --            --           --          --           --
1/  Total no. of subprojects implemented, total no. of beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary obtained from State database (SSMP). Jobs created, net incremental income, incremental
crop area, IRRs and cost-effectiveness estimated based on sample subprojects surveyed in that category.
2/  Real discount rate is 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996



- 83 -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
(Loan 2524-BR)
TABLE 9D. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ANALYSIS OF PRODUCTIVE SUBPROJECTS
Item/Project                   Manioc Mill            Farm Tractor
Number of associations                             22                      49
Average net income per association              1,825                   3,523
(US$) 1'
Average cost of subproject (US$)              20,397                  36,038
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)                    12                      10
To build replacement fund (years) 2J                7                       7
1/ Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the
original investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment.
The real interest rate is assumed to be 10%.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996



- 84 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Planned                     Revised                     Actual
Stage of               Staff                        Staff                      Staff
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$                  Weeks1   US$ 1    Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal                 -            -              -             -         339.2             -
Appraisal - Board                 -            -              -             -           22.8           -
Board - Effectiveness 2           -            -              -             -           n/a            -
Supervision                       -            -              -             -         377.9            -
Completion                        -            -              -             -            4.6           -
Total                   -            -              -             -         744.5       1,364.33
1.   Not available
2.   MIS does not distinguish period. Included under Appraisal-Board.
3.   Total cost (labor only) for period 1980 to 1997 of which $1,092,000 is Higher level staff, $207,000 Consultants and $64,600 all
other staff.
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Planned                     Revised                     Actual
Stage of               Staff                        Staff                      Staff
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$                  Weeks1  US$ l    Weeks  US$000
Through Appraisal                 -             -             -             -            54.7           -
Appraisal - Board                 -             -             -             -            10.1           -
Board - Effectiveness 2           -             -             -             -            n/a            -
Supervision                       -            -              -             -          117.1            -
Completion                        -            -              -             -             4.0           -
Total                   -             -             -             -          185.9         332.3 3
1.   Not available
2.   Included under Appraisal-Board
3.   Total cost (labor only) for period 1980 to 1997 of which $231,400 is Higher level staff, $67,800 Consultants and $33,100 all other
staff.



-85 -
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Planned                     Revised                     Actual
Stage of               Staff                        Staff                       Staff
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$                  Weeks'  US$'                Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal                 -            -              -             -         132.5             -
Appraisal - Board                 -             -             -             -           24.2            -
Board - Effectiveness             -             -             -             -           n/a             -
Supervision                       -            -              -             -         116.3             -
Completion                        -            -              -             -            4.2            -
Total                   -            -                            -         277.2         486.23
1.   Not available
2.   MIS does not distinguish period, for this project.
3.   Total cost (labor only) for period 1980 to 1997 of which $350,600 is Higher Level staff, $93,500 Consultants and $41,900 all other
staff.
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Planned                     Revised                        Actual
Stage of               Staff                        Staff                        Staff
Project Cycle           Weeks'   US$'                 Weeks'  US$S                  Weeks   US$000
Through Appraisal                 -            -              -              -            65.2            -
Appraisal - Board                 -             -             -              -              5.6           -
Board - Effectiveness 2           -            -              -              -            n/a             -
Supervision                       -            -              -              -            90.5            -
Completion                        -            -              -              -              4.0           -
Total                   -            -              -              -           165.3         304.5 3
1. Not available
2. Included under Appraisal-Board
3. Total cost (labor only) for period 1980 to 1997 of which $219,900 is Higher level staff, $72,800 Consultants and $11,700 all other staff.



- 86-
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR)
Days   Specialized      Performance Rating
Stage of         Month/   No. of    in        staff skills   Impl.      Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons   field   represented       Status    Objectives      problems
Through            8/83       2       4       Ec, AgEc        n/a          n/a            n/a
Appraisal
12/83      1        4         n/a           n/a         n/a            n/a
1/84       3       30       Ec, Ag         n/a         n/a            n/a
3/84       5       16    Ec, Ag, Eng       n/a          n/a            n/a
Appraisal         7/84       n/a      n/a        n/a          n/a          n/a            n/a
through Board
Approval
Supervision       1/86 2      2       7          Ec           n/a          n/a            n/a
4/86       1        7         Ec            2           2           Fin, Man
1/87 3      I      n/a        Eng           n/a         n/a            n/a
5/87        1      n/a        Eng           n/a         n/a            n/a
7/87       1       2         AgEc           2           3        Inst, Fin, Adm
11/87      2        8       Ec, Eng         2            3             Fin
1/88        1       15         Ec           n/a         n/a            n/a
5/88       6       11       Ec, Ag,         3           2           Fin, Man
AgEc
6/88 6      2      n/a       Ec, Ag          1           2            Tech
6/89       1        9         Ag           n/a          n/a            n/a
12/89      1        2         Ag            3            2          Fin, Inst
1/90 7     2       n/a      Ag, Eng         n/a         n/a            n/a
5/90       1       n/a        Ag            2           2        Fin, Adm, Man
8/90       2       n/a     Ag, AgEc         2           2        Fin, Adm, Man
8/91 8
2/92        1       40        Eng           n/a         n/a            n/a
5/92 10
I Appraisal mission referred to in files, but documentation not available.
2 Supervision of regional coordination component.
3 Supervision of NRDP irrigation components (FAO/CP)
4 Supervision of water resources components (FAO/CP)
5 Supervision of regional administration component.
6 Mission to review technology under APCR component.
7 Mission to discuss extending FAO TA contract.
8 Updated 590 is recorded in Recife files but copy misplaced, including in Bank files.
9 Mission to supervise irrigation component and reformulate project.
10 Updated 590 is recorded in Recife files but copy misplaced, including in Bank files.



- 87 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
SERGIPE PROJECT (Ln. 2523-BR) - Continued
Days   Specialized     Performnance Rating
Stage of         Month!   No. of    in    staff skills     Impl.      Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons  field   represented      Status    Objectives     problems
9/92       1       4        AgEc           2           1            Man
11/93      1       4        AgEc           2            1           Man
5/94       1       3        AgEc           S           S            n/a
12/95      1       3        AgEc           S           S             n/a



- 88 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE PROJECT (Ln. 2524-BR)
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/  No. of   in    staff skills      Impl.     Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field   represented     Status    Objectives    problems
Through          12/81      2       2         n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal        7/84      n/a      10        n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board
Approval
Board Approval   4/85       1       14        n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
through
Effectiveness
1/86      1       2         n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
Supervision       1/86      1       7         n/a         n/a         n/a       Adm, Man
9/86      3       3         n/a          3          n/a           Fin
10/86     5        6      Ag, n/a         3          2        Fin, Inst, Pol
8/87      3      n/a      Ag, Eng        2           2       Fin, Inst, Man
4/88      3       10    Ag, AgEc,        2           2       Fin, Inst, Adm
Ec
5/89      1       10        Ec           2           2       Fin, Inst, Tech,
Phys
7/90      1       4         Ag           2           2       Fin, Inst, Man
8/90      2      n/a        Ag           3           3            Fin
9/90      1      n/a        Ag           2           2            Fin
1/91      1      n/a        Ag           2           2           Man
2/92      n/a     n/a        n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
6/92      1      n/a       Eng           2           2           Tech
11/93      1       3       AgEc          2           1            Man
2/94      1      n/a       AgEc          2           1           Man
4/94      1       9        AgEc          S           S         Adm, Pol
8/95      1       4        AgEc          S           S           Adm
Supervision with Aide Memoire; part of reformulation exercise.



- 89 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
BAHIA PROJECT (Ln. 2761-BR)
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in    staff skills     Impl.      Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons  field   represented     Status    Objectives     problems
Through          5/84 2     4       28    Ec, Eng, Ag       n/a        n/a            n/a
Appraisal
Appraisal        11/84       7      28    Ec, Ag, Eng,      n/a        n/a            nla
through Board                                  Fin
Approval
Supervision       6/87      3        10       AgEc          2           2          Fin, Inst
11/87      1       9        Eng           n/a         n/a           n/a
6/88      2        9      Eng, Ag         2           2            Fin
4/89       1      10       AgEc           2           2          Ec, Adm
11/89      1       4        AgEc          2           2       Fin, Tech, Adm
4/90       1      12      Ec, AgEc        2           2          Fin, Adm
6/90       1      n/a        Ec           3           2          Fin, Man
6/91       1      n/a        Ec           3           2          Fin, Man
5/92      2       n/a     Ec, AgEc        2           2          Fin, Man
11/93      1       4        AgEc          2            1           Man
5/94      1        9       AgEc           S           S            Man
10/95      1       2        AgEc          S           S             n/a
2 FAO/CP preparation mission.



- 90-
TABLE 1 1. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
CEARA PROJECT (Ln. 2763-BR)
Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/  No. of    in    staff skills     Impl.     Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle    Year   persons  field   represented     Status    Objectives    problems
Through          2/85      n/a     n/a      Ec, Eng       n/a         n/a          n/a
Appraisal
7/85      3       6       Ec, Eng       n/a         n/a           n/a
Appraisal        11/85      2       11        Ec          n/a         n/a           n/a
through Board
Approval
Supervision      11/86      1       6         n/a         n/a         n/a           n/a
5/87      2      n/a      Ec, Eng       n/a         n/a           n/a
6/87      1      n/a       FinEc         2           2            Fin
5/88      1      n/a        n/a          1           2            Fin
2/89      1      n/a        n/a          2           2        Fin, Eco, Pol
5/89      I       n/a       n/a          2           2        Fin, Eco, Pol
12/89     2       9       Ec, Fin        2           2            Fin
2/90      1      n/a        Fin          2           2          Fin, Inst
6/90      2       9       Fin, Eng       3           3       Fin, Man, Leg
7/90      1      n/a       FinEc         3           3       Fin, Inst, Tech,
Pol
7/91            Updated 590              2           2            Fin
5/92            Updated 590              1           2            Fin
11/93     1       4        AgEc          2           2            Fin
2/94      1      n/a       AgEc          2           2         Fin, Man
4/94      1       8        AgEc          S           S         Fin, Man
9/95      1       4        AgEc          S           S           Man



- 91 -
TABLE 12. DISBURSEMENT PERFORMANCE OF THE NRDP BY STATE
(US$ million)
State           Original Loan       Disbursement at    Cancellations 2/           Actual            Outstanding
Amount          Reformulation l                            Disbursement            Balance
after
Reformulation
Sergipe                       61.3                 39.9                  1.0                20.4                   0.0
Rio Grande do Norte           61.4                 36.1                 10.0                 15.1                  0.2
Bahia                        171.0                 59.4                60.0                  47.8                  3.8
Ceara                        122.0                 45.1                 30.0                 39.8                  7.1
Total                        415.7               180.5                 101.0               123.1                  11.1
1/ Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2/ Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996



- 92 -
TABLE 13. NUMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES REACHED BY NRDP
(as of October 15, 1995) IJ
State                             Number of Municipalities                            Implemented/completed projects per
municipality
In the       In the      With implemented/completed projects
State     Project Area
Total        PAC        FULMAC           Total        PAC         FUMAC
Bahia                   415               264          264           237           27            10.2          9.7           15.0
Ceara                   178               176           145          133           12             6.7          6.4           10.1
RioGrandedoNorte        159               158           107           99            8             5.1          4.8           10.5
Sergipe                 75                 74           70            63            7             5.2          4.8            9.0
Total                   827               672          586           532           54            27.2         25.7           44.6
1/ Does not include municipalities reached in final stage of projects.
2/ The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the project area because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996



-93 -
TABLE 14. AVERAGE COST OF PAC/FUMAC SUBPROJECTS, BY TYPE AND BY STATE
STATE                                                      Average Cost by Type i"'
(US$)
Manioc   Farm      Water       Water    Small    Rural         Rice        House        Small-   Bridge  Clothes
flour   tractor    supply    supply    dam       electrif-   processing  improvement    scale            making
mill            (simplified   (all              ication                              irrigation
system) 1'   types)
Bahia               7,416    19,918    14,544      14,500   13,154     20,514     10,897       18,870       18,970    20,391   22,727
Ceara              14,041   36,885     17,776      17,537   19,870     32,397     21,242         --        26,391      --    25,224
Rio Grande do Norte  20,397    36,038    25,061   22,172   24,662      21,046       --           --        28,792      --    21,630
Sergipe            12,839   29,982    26,118      32,082      --       23,572       -          24,423        --       26,397    --
Alagoas             15,510   24,866      --        16,975    10,790    29,934       --         21,396       21,137      --      --
Maranhao            9,844   33,849     19,537      19,629   21,593     30,002     10,833       36,750      21,192    15,739  17,256
Minas Gerais       24,167    35,107    28,397      16,813    5,664     32,228       --           --        22,200    35,940   12,632
Paraiba             9,314    38,954     8,275      8,413   22,463      17,074     2,339          --         11,711     --    13,423
Pernambuco         21,195    31,124    28,323     29,927   28,547      27,785       --         30,004      29,674      --    35,531
Piaui               7,279   32,460    34,238       8,296   15,391      18,436     13,536       33,561       13,419    19,296  20,165
Total              14,284   33,798    18,566      17,003   19,386      26,015     12,603       29,067      21,270    24,938  20,900
PAC                 14,294   33,615    18,479      16,599   19,235     26,339     13,535       29,287      24,094    24,999  20,996
FUMAC               14,244   34,788    18,799      18,425   20,037     24,593      9,776       25,545       12,621    24,749  20,330
1/ Costs include beneficiary contributions.
2/ Nature and technical specification for the same type of project vary within and among states.
3/ Sistema simplificado de abastecimento de dgua: water supply system usually comprising a high tank used to store water originating from different sources
(surface or pumped groundwater) and a simple gravity distribution network.
Source: Bank/FAO Evaluation, 1996






- 95 -                Appendix
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SERGIPE. RIO GRANDE DO NORTE. BAHIA AND CEARA PROJECTS
(Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION






- 97 -                        Appendix
(Informal Translation)
STATE OF BAHIA
SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
OF. GASEC No 277/96
Salvador, October 4, 1996
Mr. Tulio Barbosa
World Bank Representative
Dear Mr. Barbosa:
I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of the draft Implementation Conclusion Report for
projects under the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP/PAPP) for the States of
Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia and Ceara, and to congratulate the Bank staff
responsible for its preparation.
After reviewing the document, allow me to make the following comments regarding a
possible lack of concern on the part of the State of Bahia about social projects, as inferred
from paragraph 44.
In reality, with the aim of rationalizing the use of resources and eliminating the
duplication of efforts, actions were carried out by sectoral secretariats with resources
from other sources, including Federal Government projects financed by the World Bank.
A Chagas disease control program was also carried out under the PAPP Program, in
partnership with the National Health Foundation, that included the improvement of 454
dwellings in 4 of the State's municipalities which were considered to have a high rate of
infestation by the disease vector, with investments totaling US$618,000.00
Finally, it should be noted that no specific demands were made by community
associations for actions of a social nature.
Sincerely,
(signed) Luiz Ant6nio Vasconcellos



- 98 -                        Appendix
(Informal Translation)
FAX No 079/96           PRONESE            Aracajui, October 2, 1996
From:       Flavio Conceilao de Oliveira Neto
General Coordinator/PRONESE
Fax (079) 211-8878
To:         Dr. Tulio Barbosa
Head, World Bank Office in Recife
Fax (081) 271-1594
Subject:    Comments on the Draft Implementation Conclusion Report -
Loans 2523-BR, 2524-BR, 2761-BR and 2763-BR
Dear Tulio,
At your request, the following are our comments on the above-mentioned report,
particularly on references to the State of Sergipe:
1.   In data referring to the outcome of the APCR component during the first phase of
the project in the State of Sergipe (item 37), we suggest that the indicator for the number
of beneficiaries be expressed in persons instead of families. We believe there was some
mistake in the transmission or interpretation of data, since the specific survey made by
PRONESE in 1992 leaves no doubt about our understanding of this matter.
2.    Regarding the statement that the Technical Units (TUs) "tended to assume the
responsibility for important steps in the planning cycle, to the detriment of community
participation," we understand that this presence was not a factor that inhibited
participation and the technicians often played a valuable role as moderators during the
process of identifying, selecting and approving undertakings, especially when a
community lacked the active presence of other social agents or of representatives of non-
governmental organizations. Regarding the alleged bias of TU technicians against
tractors, we may state that, at least in the case of Sergipe, this attitude stemmed from the
lack of sustainability observed in previous experiences with other programs. This attitude
persists today in the form of demands on the beneficiary group's level of organization,
regulations on the use and maintenance of equipment, and full awareness of the
operational limitations and difficulties of this type of undertaking.
Finally, despite the above observations, we wish to express our agreement, in
general terms, with the impressions given by the document which appropriately reflects
the assessment of project performance.
Sincerely,
(signed) Flavio Conceicao Oliveira Neto



- 99 -                       Appendix
General Coordinator - PRONESE



- 100 -                        Appendix
(Informal Translation)
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND BUDGET
SECRETARIAT OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
Fax N 3027/96                             Brasilia, 10-18-96
TO:         Ms. Constance Bernard
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
IBRD
FAX:        (202) 522-3132
FROM:       Manuel Jose Forero Gonzalez
General Coordinator of Economic Affairs
FAX:        (061) 225-7185
N of pages:  4 (including cover sheet)
Dear Ms. Bernard,
I refer to the letter received from the World Bank's Office in Recife on 9-5-96
(copy attached), sending a draft ICR on PAPP projects in the States of Sergipe (Ln.
2523), Rio Grande do Norte (Ln. 2524), Bahia (Ln. 2761), and Ceara (Ln. 2763), and to
SEAIN's fax n 2668/96 dated 9-16-96 (copy attached) requesting an extension of the
deadline for sending the Brazilian Government's comments on the report.
Kindly consider the following points:
a)    Regarding social projects in the State of Bahia, since there were no specific
demands from community associations, actions in the areas of health and education were
carried out by Sectoral Secretariats through other sources of finds, including Bank-
financed projects, to avoid duplication of efforts. A Chagas disease control program was
also carried out under the PAPP Program, in partnership with the National Health
Foundation, that included the improvement of 454 rural dwellings in 4 municipalities
having a high rate of infestation by the disease vector, with investments totaling
US$618,000.00.
b)    Regarding the State of Sergipe, it is understood that in data referring to efforts
carried out under the APCR component, the "number of families" indicator should be
expressed in terms of individuals, not families. Regarding the statement that the
Technical Units (TUs) tended to assume the responsibility for important steps in the
planning cycle, to the detriment of community participation, we wish to make a proviso
that this presence was not a factor that inhibited participation and the technicians often
played a valuable role as moderators during the process of identifying, selecting and



- 101 -                        Appendix
approving undertakings, especially when a community lacked the active presence of other
social agents or of representatives of non-governmental organizations. Finally, regarding
the alleged bias of TU technicians against tractors, it may be stated that this attitude
stemmed from the lack of sustainability observed in previous experiences. This attitude
persists today in the form of demands on the beneficiary group's level of organization,
regulations on the use and maintenance of equipment, and full awareness of the
operational limitations and difficulties of this type of undertaking.
Sincerely,
Manuel Jos6 Forero Gonzalez
General Coordinator of Economic Affairs



IBRD 18480
46r                              42-                                31B1 . .-,  |                                       . U
-2-                                           sAo                                                                          2-          8   R   A   Z  I   L
(    - /1  tF y  LUIZ                                                               L.                      | PROGRAM AREA
Po,.aibo                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PER.
P A  R A                                                             )                                                               j>UPornoWbo ^ oL'lv- 1.
L/ RTAIEZA                             0u
I~*  k~    k.I~*M,~ 0    000o
RIO GRANDE              rUGN3A 0.                           000
TE  SINAi i \   /   t   S       a        >         DO  NORTEM.
7C AA                                       NATAL
-6-    )            MA AN A                         " _                                  (,A 160NAA
A R          A               joAO  PESSOA
C._  Sdlo4                                              6            RECIPE
10-                                                                              Ei6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-lo-  !        /         b                          C     e        10(   _   AILAM^CEIO                                                           10~~~~~~~~~~~~s  l--
G  0  i   s                                                                   b                         ACAJU
:>       I         A    H   I  A
BRAZIL
/s tv2r \, jNORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SALVADOR                         PROGRAM AREA
1l     d. Vit.r.. 
-14"
-14-  />          ,_  7          (&                  /                                   |       | Existing Bank-Financed Rural Development Projects
-Main Roads
.1   G  j i XcVieoria~~~~~~~t.               do                                      Rivers
.       ffi      .    /   on Uls o                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~isohyols inmm.
FEDERAL DISTRSCT\  ?                              /              g    _                                          *     State Capitals
FEDERAL 5 5iRIC                                                                                          a d   I      Selected Towns
|Noe  -.   -State Boundaries
O.- flos                        jI) --    International Boundaries
KiIa.-.,. 0    Ig0    290    200
/                            {       /                              tilomler O, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100 200  200
-18-                      M   I N    A  S           G   E  R  A  I S    s                                                                         200I-
r  45t d SPIRIlO  t *Nu.ber  d.offss ordr MF *mpI.megoAsn
S,.f                        46"                              42-  '.SANTO;                    38-                              34
DECEMBER 1994



3f80'                                   3730                                                 \          r
_                                                           9ffi30 ~~~~~~~ F 4x_ 5 GurASS -t,~~~~~9'0'
:aO'  *-_..                             0      10    20    30    40    s0  r               N
'S  ~~~~~~~~~                       I      IBRAZIL
(                   s                          KILOMETERS                                       BRA IL
ALAGOAS                         A                                         A
S/    -cLP. ./                         10,00'-
CANINDE D   SAO FRANCISCO                        -
BAHIA
4 NOSSA  /         >   //               >         NORHEASTRURA
I           \      SENHORA/-^;         i /                                      STATE OF SER*I-E
>    t            ibb tDAS DOR~ESTC  /                                       O* Rad
-103D'                                                                                                                                               1130-
a ;97 R^+E H ~~~~UMI D
aoF--                                                                   oeWaG'o58 
3R00' ,?30' /   LAGARTODEVELOPMENT PROGRAM000
soo    ^    |   /   t             au stAeonat             T/yW                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Project I
q iz! ao-Gz J +// f ~~~~~~~~~STATE OF SERGIPE
DS  D ty ( w / *s t O alW~~~~~~odwT t
,.#-dTbrA"aE-  )  xf   /   ;  J    /                                                  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.yq, inmin  11-30'-
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M. / -.  ." -*- 90..
Ta                38ffi00 36-00 -                         377W                                     37:0                                   3a3



IBRD 11684R I
IC' ,0N                               38'                           1                            1                                                                                                                    3
A   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO M~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~3?                                                                                           3 I                                                         35'
BRZIL
.  1                               AREA                                                                          NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
O tMAP
ToFcOI.zo | /.-. |  Te  <                STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
,         R  A  Z I L                                                                '-          .
' - ,., B R A Z I L                                         t    A    >  ^zx                                                                                                               ATLANTIC OCFAN
5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.       v          U~~~~~LMA                 reTberd''                                                                .\CLSe     
~~,,   ,    PllaECTPRSJRllYAffAB>N^RIESW   -    -- --------D                                                                                         N  . % o ""  
"SOUTH] AMERICA
tSEOOMI AR DNSThATEIIOUNDARIES           MN  AU                                                    _
PA R A iB A
3Er         3?                                                        3e                                                      JANUARy lJ e



IBRD 18894
*7     r            * ~~~              ~~r ci  r                                      4r      ..  Si            18            Or,,
B R A Z I L                                              |                                                                                                     PERNAMBLICO
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                   -M-
Project III                               MARANHAo  /                                                                                                    -
STATE OF BAHLA                                                       PlAUi .
bWegb.d Adminlalon Offices
Pan,ting Regon Boundarie                                                                        '
PICO- Pdorfly AJ                                                                                                                            NOR
- Man R oad
o   Tcr_se''                                                                                                 <       IEE4< 
WblnWt In Millin-etas
aMiSn Climaic Zone tbunc.*es
9bale Boundaril:s
---traelatrd BounclbG                     -IT    .=>Z{/- r
'.              ~~~OESTE ta                                                      m 
IWtRlNHAO    P01v
A~~~                                                                                                                       c 4  l),rSRAm< -/             ,  
|                                                     8~ /f                                                 ERL                - 
ii  2K'C;00                                                                                 A  ---                           ,                                  , 
o\Y.                                                         /                                                                                         Is-.A.  1
_mHAUd PSStunPll                                                    \  AO  A'      /  
utfitlrndegsgnrs N  ,/ ):{J                                                               
rOL.OIEIEBOS  0   12  -00    200                                                                                     T. ' .  /                             l
.  , ____'_,__                                                                                             MINAS GBAS/                       -|
NELEb0 1o 0     200       ) 
~~~~2lEAt. I ( t SPAR                                                                                                                                                It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .,f A
0OMEI0S  a         I0 T00 1o0  200
)  #!            ' __>                                                                    kEb N  wiO    2b  iO  7b   2   100   b/
!  0                      j 40 -rww                                                                                                                             I;                                       1
MLB 6   ;5 y6   ;       0r                                                                           MI
>7   {-/. X    ^ t 0   1COD  _   _   -*r  ESPIRIUO   1985
;  X   ; u  __     r            4            e                                      r            1. S^NTO a D U"l  ,                   rr    ST 1ceS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGUT 98



NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VI PROJECT (CEARA)                          J
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALLAB
B R A Z IL L 7N MSr
'P                                                                                        A M  EJR IC A
FORTALEZA
^lid  Jt.0d ..AtbNUOy k~IW   -t
7.;
7. t. \ R _f t J* Rgond
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  g-1M, f  EMoBln \rF)ATlWE Rod
0 5 075                                                                                                00  E.0      R-NAMah      ISbvWrlEtQKoi-
._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,  a e .  .  "  ._



