Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,cV -t' c't
Report No. P-4392-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$171.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT 2ROJECT - BAHIA
September 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Cruzeiro(Cr$)/Cruzado(Cz$)
US$1.00               -        Cr$2,714 1/
US$.00o                        Cz$13.80 (February 28, 1986) 2f
Cz$1.00               =        US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)2/
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   =    January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  =    April 1 to March 31
Project                                =    April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November 1984).
21 A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The
cruzeiro will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will
be devalued against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting
February 28, 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
CAR              Coupanhia de Desenvolvimento e Aeso Regional
(State Company for Regional Development Action)
CEAS-BA          Central de Abastecimento da Bahia SA.
(Central Marketing Organization of Bahia)
CEPED            Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento
(Research and Development Center)
CERB             Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahli
(State Rural Engineering Company)
CNPA             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Algodao
(National Research Center for Cotton Production)
CNPC             Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Caprinos
(National Research Center for Goat and Sheep Production)
CNPMF            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Mandloca e Fruticultura
(National Research Center for Cassava and Tropical Fruit)
COBAL            Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Compar.y)
CODEVASF         Coupanhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
DNOCS            Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
EBAL             Eupresa Bahiana de Alimento S. A.
(State Food Company)
EHATER-BA        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extenso Rural da Bahia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER         Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
EPABA            Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia
(State Agricultural Research Company)
This document has a rtited ditnbutn and may be uud by recipients only in the perfornmnce
of their ofkfciwa duties Its contents may no otherwise be discased without World Bnk authorinztion.



FIBGE             Pundaceo Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estadistica
(Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FUNAI             Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IC                Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
IICA              Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacao a Agricultura
(Interamerican Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture)
INCR.A            Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Land Reform Agency)
INTERBA           Instituto de Terra da Bahia
(State Lad Institute)
MINTER            Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of Interior)
MIRAD             Ministerio de Reforma Agraria e Desenvolvimento Agricola
(r.inistry of Agricultural Reform and Development)
NRDP              Northeast Rural Development Program
POLONOPDESTE      Programs de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
RDC               Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SDC               Conselho Estadual do Desenvolvimento
(State Development Council)
SEPLAN            Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Secretariat of Planning)
SSRC              Support to Small Rural Communities
STC               Comissao Teenica Estadual
(State Technical Commiasion)
SUDENE            Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing        The State Company for Regional Development Action (CAR)
Agencies:        for coordination of all state and federal agencies
participating in the Bahia State Rural Development
Program and the Federal Agricultural Research Company
(EMBRAPA) for regional agricultural research.
Amount:          US$171.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 80,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 161 municipalities of the State of Bahia would
directly benefit from the project. An estimated additional
150,000 families would also benefit from the water supply,
community development and marketing services components.
Project          The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
Description:    the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP).  The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of Bahia; (b)
generate employment opportunities for low-income farm
families; (c) increase state and regional institutional
capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to
small farmers; and (d) promote water resource development
and technology generation and diffusion to decrease small
farmer vulnerability to recurring drought cycles. It would
support water resource development for both agricultural
and domestic use, agricultural research at the state and
regional levels, rural extension, investment credit,
marketing services, funding for community subprojects, and
project administration and training.
Risks:           Project risks include:  (a) possible inefficient delivery
of project services; (b) lack of sufficient inter-
institutional cooperation; (c) delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding; (d) insecurity of land tenure; and
(e) recurring drought conditions. The project has been
designed to minimize these risks.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:                               US$ Millions
Local      Foreig!       Total
A.  Water Resource Development             20.5         8.0          28.5
B.  Agricultural Research and
Basic Seed Production               23.8         3.9          27.7
C.  Agricultural Extension                 67.0        5.6          72.6
D.  Rural Investment Credit                63.6        11.2         74.8
E.  Marketing Services                      9.7         2.0         11.7
F.  Support to Small Rural
Comunities                          36.2         6.0          42.2
C.  State Project Administration
and Training                        33.3         2.4          35.7
Sub-Total                                     254.1        39.1         293.2
Regional Production Research                    7.0         1.0           8.0
Total Baseline Cost                           261.1        40.1         301.2
Physical Contingencies                          2.7         1.1           3.8
Price Contingencies                            45.6         5.6          51.2
Total Project Cost                            309.4        46.8         356.211
Financing Plan:                                     -US$ Millions
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                                    185.2         -           185.2
IBRD                                          124.2        46.8         171.0
TOTAL                                         309.4        46.8         356.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1US$ Millims
Bank FY         1987 2/ 1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Annual          16.0   23.2   24.0   25.6   26.0  25.8  15.4  10.0   5.0
Qnnilative      16.0   39.2   63.2   88.8  114.8 140.6  156.0  166.0 171.0
Rate of Return:  17%
Map No. IBRD 18894
I/ Including about US$14.2 million of local taxes.
21 Including initial deposit of US$7.3 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$171.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$171.0
million to help finance the Norcheast Rural Development Project in Bahia.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum  (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jos0 Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and
anti-poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional"
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, re-
negotiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
siglficant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, succeseive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign
borrowing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more
than doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total
obligations of approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The
efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong
internal pressures and increased inflation.  The economy remained
vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices
occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates increased, the
current account deficit uore than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of exter-
nal developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMF approved Extended Fund Facility
and compensatory financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to
about US$5.4 billion for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5Z of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,



very high real Interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
fell by 3.2Z in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 202, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984, when GDP grew 4.5%.  Balance-of-
payments performance was again highly positive, aided by exchange rate
changes which fully accounted for domestic inflation and by the strong
growth of the US economy. An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1
billion was generated, and Brazil's international reserve position markedly
improved. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall,
much of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current
US dollars, total exports for 1984 were 232 greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 372. In 1985, GDP growth
accelerated, reaching 8.3% for the year.  The recovery was led by industry,
though investment spending remained low. Industrial employment Increased
by 6%, and open unemployment declined significantly in the major urban
centers. Externally, the trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion,
the current account deficit was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross international
reserves remained at a level equivalent to about 8 months of imports.
Without new commercial bank borrowing in 1985, the country's external debt
was stable, at almost US$104 billion.
10.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to
3.2% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial
sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted in real
wage gains, and Federal Government salaries were increased to compensate
for large previous declines. These policies contributed to inflation.
Prices rose 235% in 1985, in spite of temporary price restraints imposed by
the new Government earlier in the year.
11.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation accelerated late in the year as regulated prices were
increased to compensate for price freezes in earlier months and as
businesses anticipated the effects of a drought in the South. By January
and February of 1986, monthly inflation was 16% and 14%, respectively. A
program to reduce inflation gradually was being implemented at that time.
Centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit, it involved
higher taxes and cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury



- 4 -
Secretariat to centralize budget disbirsements. A program for
restructuring and selective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation, the Government tightened
consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food imports to offset the
drought-related increase in agricultural prices. It soon decided, however,
that a more radical comprehensive program to stop inflation was needed.
Plano Cruzado
12.      On February 28, the Government initiated the Plano Cruzado, to
eliminate the rapid inflation which was threatening Brazilian economic
stability and prospects for sustained growth. The program seeks both to
eliminate the impact of past, indexed inflation and to change future
inflation expectations. It features a currency reform, with the new
cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a temporary price freeze on goods
and services; an exchange rate set at Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period
to be determined; wage adjustments to their average real value over the
previous 6 months, with annual adjustments thereafter, at least partly
Indexed to inflation; the freezing for one year of rent and mortgage
payments; prohibition of indexation of financial contracts for periods of
less than a year, except for personal savings accounts; the conversion of
nominal cruzeiro contracts to appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of
indexed Government bonds to cruzados at the parity existing on February 28,
without any adjustment, at least for one year, in the nominal value of the
new bonds; and a number of measures intended to liberalize the financial
system. These sweeping financial reforms were accompanied by a continued
effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize
and, if possible, reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment
insurance program was initroduced.
13.       Initial results of the program were positive and popular support,
widespread. Consumer prices rose only by 3.4% in the March-June period,
while industrial wholesale prices declined by 2.8%. Economic activity,
after an initial pause, has continued to expand. GDP growth for 1986 is
expected to be about 7%. Investment indicators are increasing: capital
goods production was 26% higher in March-May than a year previously, while
machinery imports were 40% higher in the first half of 1986 than a year
ago. The trade surplus is running at an annual level of US$12.5 billion,
even with a 30X increase in non-oil imports during the first six months of
the year. Although the exchange rate is temporarily fixed, the real
effective exchange rate has not appreciated since February, helped by the
continuing fall in the U.S. dollar.
Economic Outlook
14.       Price stability is a priority objective of the Government.  The
Government's efforts to keep inflationary pressures from reemerging have
included keeping the public sector deficit under control, following a
prudent monetary policy, and using imports, as needed, to offset shortages
of key products while price controls are still in place. Initially, the
Government allowed a rapid, non-inflationary increase in the money supply,
following the adoption of the Cruzado Plan, to accommodate the public's



-5-
lncreased demand for money as inflationary expectations were reduced. By
July, it was clear that domestic demand was increasing too rapidly.
Consequently, the Government tightened monetary policy, and interest rates
increased substantially. By August, the nominal rate on Government
securities was about 30% on an annualized basis, compared to 15% in March.
Given the large amount of domestic public debt, these higher interest rates
might make it difficult for the Government to achieve a fiscal deficit
below last year's leveJ of 3.5% of GDP. Although the price freeze is being
maintained, some items (including beef, milk, automobiles, and selected
household items) have become scarce and unofficial premis are being charged
in some instances. There is clearly a need to gradually relax the price
freeze, in order to maintain public confidence in the Government's
stabilization program and longer-run growth plans. To decontrol prices
without causing a sharp acceleration of inflation, domestic demand would
have to be restrained further, the fiscal deficit reduced, and imports
increased.
15.       Sustained economic growth is also an important focus of the
Government's agenda. Its recently announced "Target Plan" for 1986-89 sets
national economic targets and priorities for major productive,
infrastructure, and social sectors. A National Development Fund has been
established to provide the resources for a major increase in public and
private investment. In addition, the Government is undertaking structural
adjustments which should foster more efficient growth. Among the more
important changes are those included in the program of agricultural sector
reforms, which have as major objectives the liberalization of the markets
for key agricultural goods and the establishment of positive, floating
interest rates for agricultural credit; and in the ongoing financial
reforms, designed to improve banking efficiency, develop long-term
financial instruments to support investment, and improve control over
monetary policy.
16.       GDP growth of 6-7% per annum is needed to improve living
standards, and to generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
required to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb gradually
those still affected by the recent recession. As the Government
recognizes, long-term growth of this magnitude requires continued success
in the implementation of the stabilization program, further efforts to
reduce the public sector deficit, and the maintainance of a sound exchange
rate policy. A focus on further export promotion, improved resource
allocation and productive efficiency, public sector reforms, and increased
savings and investment is also needed.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in
July with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls over
1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this debt
from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about 20%



- 6 -
of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of annual GDP
growth between 6 and 7% in 1986-90, with additional foreign financing.
Brazil's net medium- and long-term financing requirements from
multilateral, bilateral, and commercial sources are projected to average
about US$2.8 billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount,
approximately US$1.5 billion would be needed annually from commercial
sources. With these moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's
total medium- and long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of about 3.0%
from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of international inflation, and
would thus decline in real terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the aecade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 77% of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to about 50% in 1990.
Sim4larly, the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to
3.6 in 1985, is projected to decline to 2.4 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt
service payments will remain high. Interest payments alone would be
equivalent to 22% of exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985.
Therefore, Brazil will either need to reschedule its commercial bank debt
further or seek much larger amounts of new gross borrowing. With
continuation of its adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments
performance, and an adequate but moderate flow of net new foreign
financing, Brazil's long-term prospects are good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was



-7-
US$3,687.9 million. Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million,
equivalent to 10% of the Bank's portfolio. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-85 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,523 million per year. Eleven loans
totalling US$1,620.0 million were approved in FY86. They were: a small
towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5 million; a Northeast
urban reconstruction project for US$100.0 million; an irrigation
engineering project for US$48.0 million; a metropolitan urban development
project for US$55.0 million; a second agricultural extension project for
US$155.0 million; a Northeast rural development project for US$92.0
million; an irrigation project for US$57.0 million; a Northeast health
project for $59.5 million; a public sector management project for US$29
million; a power sector project for US$500 million; and a credit and
marketing reform project for US$500 million. Work is advanced for an
industrial skills formation project; an urban transport project; a highways
project; an irrigation sector project; an investment finance project; and
several projects in the Northeast region, including the Itaparica
resettlement project and rural development and irrigation projects.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$89 billion at the end of
1985. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 5.5% while its share
In total debt service is estimated at 3.9%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 3L, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires
substantial domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on
tighter public sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings
and investment, and a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal
deficit, and to promote greater overall efficiency in the use of available
domestic and external resources, the Government will have to reduce its
participation in direct productive activities, while concentrating a
growing share of its total expenditures in the social sectors and in other
traditional Government services. The private sector, therefore, will have
an increasingly important role in the future growth of productivity and
production. In this policy framework, the Bank lending strategy is
designed to support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the
mobilization and effective use of resources, and contribute to the
attainment of social and regional development objectives to which high
priority is also attached by the Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and



-8 -
sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the
Government and the Bank, also in support of the strategy stnamarized above.
Most of the proposed loans aim at supporting one or more of three key
objectives: (a) structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the
management of the public sector; (b) the rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure; and (c) the increase in productivity, and the
improvement in living conditions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three projects, that were approved by the Executive Directors in
June 1986, address important aspects of the structural reform process, in
support of the first lending objective. The Public Sector Management Loan
is directed toward improving programming and monitoring within the
Government and developing capacity within the Planning Ministry to promote
the financial rehabilitation of state enterprises. An important aspect of
this loan is the annual exchange of views between the Bank and the
Government on the public investment program. The Power Sector
Rehabilitation Loan will deepen the process of rehabilitating an important
group of state enterprises. The four-year sector investment program
includes only high priority projects, and its assoc ated financial plan
envisages the full financial rehabilitation of the sector during the
1986-89 period, with substantial annual increases in sector revenues,
begitning in 1987. Finally, the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan supports
an important reform program based upon a market-oriented shift in the
Government's agricultural policies. The major policy reforms are: (i) the
adoption of a new rural credit policy based on floating interest rates,
which will imply a substantial reduction of credit subsidies; and (ii) the
liberalization of trade of key agricultural products, including the removal
of controls on exports, imports, and prices, except in the case of extreme
price fluctuations.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of
structural reform of the Brazilian economy. These reforms are part of
Brazil's short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being
updated by the Government to take full account of the expected results of
the financial and stabilization policy decisions adopted since January and
February of this year. Subsequent operations in support of Brazil's
structural adjustment process are likely to be related, inter alia, to the
ongoing reform of the country's financial system; to the increase in
efficiency and competitiveness of the agricultural and industrial sectors;
and to the power sector rehabilitation program.
29.       The second lending objective--rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure--will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector; these operations would support the
implementation of the Sector Rehabilitation Program that was prepared and
approved by the Government in connection with the FY86 Power Sector
Rehabilitation loan. Lending for transportation will be directed toward
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transportation network



- 9 -
with expansion in areas where economic activity is outgrowing present
capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage will be mostly
directed to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research and extension, land reform,
integrated rural development, water supply, sewerage, and health are
already assisting the improvement of the living conditions, and the
increase in productivity of the Brazilian population, particularly the
rural and urban poor of the Northeast Region. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the North-
east, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the Northwest.
Continued lending for integrated rural development and irrigation projects
in the Northeast of Brazil will support the Government's objectives to
further alleviate poverty, by reducing the region's vulnerability to
drought, improving regional institutions, and broadening land ownership.
Further lending for urban development will address ways to improve urban
services and infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the
financial basis of municipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region,
with a view toward self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New
projects for water supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while
extending services to rural areas and to the low-income urban population.
Education lending will continue to strengthen financial and administrative
capacity while also increasing the contribution of education to the
development process, especially in the Northeast. Environmental and
resettlement issues associated with electric power investments in the
Northeast are being addressed in the Power Sector loan, approved in FY86,
and in a proposed Itaparica resettlement project.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources
from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since
1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. There have been no cofinancing
opportunities with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume
and terms of commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined
within the framework of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, however,
of Brazil's current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress
in restoring a sound balance-of-payments position, and its current efforts
to control inflation, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from
commercial banks should be improving, although the likelihood of a future
multi-year rescheduling might pose some difficulties in this respect. In
this framework, the Bank's cofinancing instruments may well play a positive
role in assisting Brazil to regain its normal access to international
capital markets.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these figures were 13%, 30%,
and 38%, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in
Brazil's agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early
1980s, output and investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply
disparate rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual
crops. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane, on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in
agricultural trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports
depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar.
Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were
accounted for by these five trops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of
Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of
agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
35.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia,
the northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of
Fernando do Noronha, with a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the
country's total area). The Northeast has been the nation's foremost
problem region since the late 1800s.
36.       Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty
and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from
the region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979 to 1983).
In 1980, the Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29% of
the country's total), growing at 2.2% per annum with a population density
of 22.5 inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and
over 50% of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is
highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than
6% of the farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than
40% of the farm area. Rural incomes are very low. In 1980, over 80% of



-. 11 -
the rural population earned less than the minimum salary (about US$675
annually, or 35% of the national average).
37.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar, and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production.  The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of
cattle.  The sparsely populated, semi-arid sertao is the largest of the
subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s most Government efforts to assist in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and
incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development
and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE
was originally responsible for coordination of public investment, drought
emergency measures and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new
private investment. The initiative for regional policy formulation was
transferred to various Federal agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing
to play an important role in the coordination of federally-funded special
rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It
included the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arld Region of the Northeast and the Special Program of Support for
Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones. The second approach was
concerned with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several
parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use Program, the Semi-Arid
Tropics Research Program and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well
as large federal public irrigation projects.
40.       Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first
two approaches in alleviating rural poverty had been limited. The new
initiative is being implemented through a series of sectoral projects in
such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health, education and
integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) is a 15-year program based upon a comprehensive regional policy
framework, subsectoral strategy guidelines, multi-year state rural
investment plans and the integration of all rural special programs under
unified planning and implementation procedures.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
41.       The Bank has made 38 loans, totalling US$2,897.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one



- 12 -
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and
marketing reform loan for US$500 million; supplemental financing for
US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans for
US$519.2 million, for agroindustries; two, for US$60.5 million, for
livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two, for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
and 24, totalling US$1,011.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation
and rural development projects in the Northeastl/, in Minas Gerais, and in
the North and Northwest. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto
Turl Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project raised
settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas
of environmental protection, comunity organization and strengthening of
cooperatives. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that, despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates, and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
agri culture,
42.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight states of the Northeast. Approved
from 1976 to 1983, six of the projects are still being executed and the
other four have been substantially completed. Implementation has improved
over the years, especially in project planning and agency coordination.
All projects have experienced implementation and disbursement delays mainly
because of the unusually severe 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local
funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation
activities and initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant
technology for small farmers. These problems were addressed during the
preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Bahia
43.       Location and Natural Features.  Bahia, with 560,000 kn2 (about
the size of France), is the largest state in the Northeast. It is bordered
on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south by Minas Gerais, on the
west by Goias, and on the north by Piaui, Pernambuco, Alagoas and Sergipe
(Map IBED 18894). The Sao Francisco River, which cuts the state from south
to north, separates the eastern two thirds, an area of traditional settle-
ment, from the western third, which is practically unpopulated. Over half
the state, the central and northern sections, is considered *sertao and is
part of the so-called 'Drought Polygon," the area of the Northeast which
suffers from chronic drought problems. The eastern and southern sections
of the state, with higher rainfall levels of 1,000 to 2,000 mm/year, and
fertile soils, are the main agricultural areas. Salvador, the capital of
Bahia, is one of the oldest cities in the country and has a population of
1.8 million, making it the second largest city in the Northeast.
1, A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C. 1983.



- 13 -
44.       Social and Economic Conditions.  Bahia's population is nearly 9.5
million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2.4%. Population
density is 17 inhabitants per square kilometer, which is the third lowest
in the Northeast. About 50% of the population lives in urban centers that
are growing mostly because of migration from rural areas. Because of the
rural exodus, the agricultural sector now employs only about 50% of the
state's active working population, compared to 70% in 1970. Some 660,000
rural families, or about 70% of Bahia's rural population, earn an income
below the relative poverty level of about US$330 per capita.
45.       Land Tenure and Production.  The agricultural area in Bahia
comprises about 30 million ha, of which an estimated 4.4 million ha (15%)
are arable land, 14 million ha (47%) are grazing land, and 11.6 million ha
(38%) are forest or bushland. Land ownership is skewed: about 54% of all
farms are less than 10 ha and account for only 4.1% of the total farm
area; about 0.5% of farms larger than 100 ha account for nearly 33% of the
total farm land. Although 84% of the farmers are classified as owners, few
have legal title to their property.  Agriculture in Bahia is based mainly
on ten crops, of which the State is the country's leading producer of cacao
(92%), sisal (60%), and castor beans (47%). With respect to livestock,
Bahia accounts for 34% of the national goat and sheep production. The
three main subsistence crops -- cassava, maize and beans -- accounted in
1982 for about 53% of the cropped area and were mainly produced on small-
and medium-sized farms.
46.       Agricultural Services.  A number of government agencies provide
services and promote agricultural development. The state agricultural
research company, EPABA, operates one central station in Salvador and
10 experimental stations throughout the state and has a staff of about 80
agronomists. In addition, EMBRAPA, the Federal Agricultural Research
Company, maintains one production-oriented research center for cassava and
tropical fruit in Cruz das Almas (Bahia). Agriculture extension is
provided by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-BA) through a network of regional and subregional offices.
EMATER-BA has a total staff of about 900 extension workers and 170 social
workers. Four major banks -- the Bank of Brazil, the National Bank for
Cooperative Credit, the State Bank of Bahia. and the Bank of the Northeast
of Brazil -- provide credit to farmers and maintain an adequate branch
network throughout the State. The State Rural Engineering Company (CERB),
experienced in groundwater exploitation, is responsible for the
construction of rural water supply and small-scale public irrigation
systems. EBAL, the State Food Company, is active in urban and rural areas
and is considered one of the best run food retail companies in Bahia.
Agricultural inputs are mainly provided through private suppliers; seed by
the semipublic State enterprise, Sementes Formoso S.A.   Land
regularization and land titling is entrusted to the State Land Institute
(INTERBA). The State Company for Regional Development Action (CAR), linked
to the State Secretary of Planning, is responsible for coordination and
administration of all state rural development programs.
47.       Rural Development  Since 1978 the Government of Bahia has
initiated three rural development projects under the POLONORDESTE Program.



- 14 -
Two of these projects are partially financed by the Bank: the Bahia Rural
Development (Paraguacu) Project (Loan 1589-BR) with a loan of US$37 million
approved on June 6, 1978, and the Second Bahia Rural Development (Nordeste)
Project (Loan 2269-BR) with a loan of US$67.8 million approved on April 26,
1983. A third project, the Irece Rural Development Project, is partially
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with a loan of
US$36.8 million approved in 1982. Rural water-related investments are
being financed under the Water Resources Use Program, and the State has
initiated some rural development efforts in the vicinity of the large,
man-made Sobradinho Lake and the Sao Francisco River.
48.       Experience with the Bank-financed projects is generally
consistent with that of other POLONORDESTE projects (para. 42). Under the
Paraguacu project, (Loan No. 1589-BR), appraisal targets for extension were
surpassed, with some 30,000 farmers currently receiving assistance. The
Bank loan closed in December 1985. The Second Bahia Rural Development
Project (Loan No. 2269-BR) is designed to raise the incomes and living
standards of some 45,000 rural families through land regularization,
agricultural services (irrigation, water supply, extension services and
rural credit) roads and health and education services. The loan is
expected to close in 1988. The proposed project would begin to finance
agricultural services in the areas included in the Second Bahia Rural
Development Project only once the funds allocated for these purposes in
Loan 2269-BR are fully disbursed (para. 74 below). Similarly the Irece
project, financed by IDB, is assisting about 15,000 small farmers. These
three ongoing projects are part of the Rural Development Plan of the State
of Bahia. Investments in services and infrastructure under the ongoing
projects have increased Bahia's institutional capacity and provide a firm
basis for further investments in rural development.
PART IV - TEE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
49.       The NRDP presents a new opportunity for the Bank to support
poverty alleviation and institution-building objectives in the Northeast of
Brazil. Common problems detected in the on-going projects (para. 42
above), skewed patterns of land ownership and the experience gained by
SUDENE and state institutions, convinced both the Government and the Bank
that a unified regional and sectoral approach was needed.
50.       In August 1982 the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which will eventually consist of ten projects. In April
1985, as part of the Program, the Bank approved the Northeast Rural
Development Projects (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) for the States of Sergipe
and Rio Grande do Norte. In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural
Development Plan, the first project established the structure and operating
procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to
support all ten Northeast state rural development plans. In June 1985, the
Bank approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan



- 15 -
2593-BR) which finances land cadastral activities in all ten Northeaetern
states. In June 1986, the Bank approved a Northeast Rural Development
Project for the State of Pernambuco (Loan 2718-BR); similar projects for
the States of Piaui and Ceara are presented jointly with the proposed
project. A project for the State of Maranhao has already been appraised,
and the three remaining projects for the States of Alagoas, Paraiba and
Minas Gerais are being prepared for Bank appraisal.
51.       Preparation of the proposed project in Bahia began in 1983 and
was carried out by the State of Bahia's Company for Regional Development
Action (CAR), with assistance from SUDENE, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program and the Bank. The proposed project was appraised in December 1984
and loan negotiations were held in October 1985. The Brazilian delegation
was led by the Secretary General of the Ministry of the Interior and
SUDENE's Superintendent. Subsequent processing of the proposed project was
delayed waiting for Government decisions concerning, first, the terms of
rural credit and, second, the solution of problems affecting the
availability of counterpart funds. The required decisions were adopted,
respectively, in May and August 1986 (see paras. 69-71 below). A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5709-BR) is being distributed separately. Annex III
provides other key project data.
Objectives and Strategy
52.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) increase agricultural production and productivity in the State of
Bahia; (b) generate employment opportunities for low-income farm families
who have access to less than 100 ha of land each; (c) increase state and
regional institutional capacity to provide efficient agricultural services
to small farmers; and (d) promote water resource development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmer vulnerability to
recurring drought cycles. The above objectives are consistent with the
Bank's strategy for the economically disadvantaged Northeast (para. 30
above). Project activities would directly benefit about 80,000 low-income
farmer families located in the six priority areas within the state. An
estimated additional 150,000 families would benefit from the water supply,
forestry, community development and marketing components. Once this
project is completed, an estimated 170,000 low-income farm families would
have benefited directly from the rural development program in the State of
Bahia, either from the proposed project or through earlier ones, now under
implementation (para. 48 above).
53.      Priority Areas.  The State Secretary of Planning has divided Bahia
into ten regions. Out of these ten, the State selected six regions,
(including 161 municipalities), namely, Paraguacu, Nordeste, Irece,
Sobradinho, Serra Geral and Oeste, as high priority areas for development
where small farmers and basic food crop production predominate, but where
there is still considerable underdeveloped agricultural potential and a
need for improved services. The regions selected have also been partly
subject to prior cadastral and land titling operations and would receive
priority attention under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project (para. 50 above). Three out of the six priority regions are
currently benefiting from ongoing rural development projects (para. 48
above) and would become an integral part of the NRDP.



- 16 -
54.       Amerindian Assistance.  There are some 3,700 Amerindians in the
Northeast region living on Indian reserves at Mirandela, Massacars, and
Brejo do Burgos. These Amerindians have lived in permanent contact with
the national society since colonial times and are considered to be largely
acculturated. One area, the Mirandela Reserve, which was demarcated by the
National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) in 1982 is a focus of tension, due to
the presence of some 10,000 non-Amerindians who have been farming what
is, on the basis of legal evidence, Amerindian reserve land for several
generations. Under Bank Loan 2269-BR (para. 48 above) assurances were
provided by the Government that areas occupied by Amerindians and
non-Amerindians would not benefit from project-financed activities until
outstanding land issues, particularly the size of the Indian reserves and
their occupancy by non-Amerindians, had been solved. Therefore, the
proposed project includes only one of these areas (the municipality of
Gloria), where an agreement has been reached already on the demarcation of
the Pankarare Tribe reserve at Brejo do Burgos.
Project Description and Detailed Features
55.       The project would consist of two major groups of activities:
those related to the Bahia Rural Development Plan and those related to
agricultural research under the Northeast Rural Development Program. The
latter set of activities would serve both the proposed project and future
rural development projects covering all ten Northeast states. A
complementary program of land activities would be carried out under the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (paras. 50 above and 57
below).
56.       Activities related to the Bahia Rural Development Plan would
include:
(a) Water Resource Development: (i) construction of one
state-managed irrigation scheme at Itapera (Sobradinho) totaling
about 1,045 ha and benefiting about 350 farm families; (ii)
feasibility studies of areas with irrigation potential and, if
justified by such studies, construction of up to ten small
state-managed public irrigation schemes, to benefit up to 2,500
ha; (iii) feasibility studies for about 8,600 ha of new irrigable
land, to be developed under a subsequent stage of the Northeast
Rural Development Program; (iv) construction of about 250 simple
water supply systems in communities with less than 500
inhabitants; (v) construction of one fish hatchery at Sao Jose do
Jacuipa to reach annual production of 1.2 million fingerlings;
and (vi) the institutional strengthening of the irrigation
department of CERB. In addition, about 6,600 ha of individual
private irrigation and about 80 ha of fish ponds would be
financed under the rural investment credit component.



- 17 -
(b)  Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production.   Research would
be directed towards low-cost technologies to make farming systems
more resistant to droughts. This component would include: (i)
24 agroecological and natural resource studies to assist in
future research planning; (ii) about 400 short- and medium-term
applied research trials at the experiment stations to improve
production technology; (ili) about 180 farr-level observation
units to test and adapt integrated farm production technology;
(iv) annual basic seed production from about 375 ha; (v) 24
forestry research trials to identify the most appropriate fodder,
fuelvood and fruit species; and (vi) 35 fish research activities
in the Sobradinho Lake area;
(c)  Agricultural Extension would include:  (i) the construction and
equipping of 6 new regional offices, 37 local offices with
residence and 6 local offices without residence; (ii)
establishment of about 5,000 demonstration plots; (iii) hiring of
about 560 local agricultural extension agents and 280 social
extension workers, about 75 subject-matter specialists and
supervisory personnel and related administrative staff; (iv) the
production of about 30 million tree seedlings; and (v) a rural
goat production program;
(d)  Rural Investment Credit.  The project would finance medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments for approximately 30,000
farmers or about 37% of the 80,000 direct beneficiaries of the
project. A greater number would receive short-term production
credit to be financed by the participating banks (para. 46
above). Farmers would contrIbute with labor to on-farm
investment but, due to limited savings after the drought,
financing would cover up to 100% of the cost of goods required
for on-farm investment, with a maximum repayment period of 12
years and a maximum grace period of 3 years. Sugarcane
plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha, and automobiles
would not be eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings
established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's
Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers and for farmer
associations and cooperatives (provided 70t of their members are
small farmers who would directly benefit from the investment)
(see also para. 70 below). Assurances have been received that
these criteria would be applied.
(e)  Marketing Services.  The marketing service component is designed
to increase farmers' knowledge of marketing and prices, improve
the timely provision and marketing of agricultural inputs, and
exparnd the efficient state food retail service. In order to
achieve these objectives, the project would include: (i)
construction of four service centers and establishment and
operation of a marketing information service; (ii) expansion of
EBAL's rural retail network; (iii) construction of 137 annexes to
EBAL's rural retail shops for the sale of agricultural inputs;
and (iv) construction of 12 and repair of 9 storage facilities,
for a small crop purchasing program for farmers livlng in remote
areas, to be financed by the Government.



- 18 -
(f) Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC). This component would
facilitate small farmer's participation in the project and
create job opportunities. The component would include: (i)
creation of a community development fund of about US$32.0 million
to make grants for local subprojects; (Ci) purchase of vehicles
tud equipment; and (iii) hiring and training of about 90
community development agents. CAR would be responsible for the
implementation of the component. Identification, planning and
execution of subprojects would be carried out by farmers' groups,
associations, syndicates and cooperatives. Written proposals
explaining objectives, benefits expected, method of
implementation, and group cost-sharing (in cash or in kind),
would be submitted for approval to Municipal Councils comprised
of elected village and municipal officials. Subproject
eligibility would depend on its being (i) wholly managed and
implemented by the group, with technical assistance, as needed;
(ii) self-sustaining and benefiting the whole group; and (iii)
not financed by other project components or government programs.
Three categories of eligible subprojects and their respective
shares of the fund have been established: up to 5% for training
of group leaders and strengthening farmers' groups, including
legal assistance to beneficiaries' groups on land-related
matters; at least 55% for economic subprojects (e.g.,
confectionery, arts and crafts, fish ponds and small animal
production schemes); and up to 40% for community infrastructure
(e.g., small storage units, laundry facilities). No limit would
be placed on individual grants, because the amounts required in
each case are expected to be small, but yearly limits for each of
the priority areas have been set. For each approved sub-project,
a written agreement would be signed between CAR and the
association or, in cases of unincorporated groups, by the
municipality on behalf of the group with funds channeled through
the municipality. Assurances were received that no funds would
be released prior to the signing of the agreement. Not later
than December 31, 1988, the Bank and CAR would review the
performance of the grants for economic sub-projects to establish
the feasibility of carrying out further community development
fund operations on a loan basis.
(g) State Project Administration and Training. CAR would be
responsible for administering and coordinating all
federally-funded rural programs (including training) and for
fully integrating them under the project. The project would
strengthen CAR's administrative capabilities by financing
salaries of about 100 higher level and related support staff,
travel expenses, office equipment, training and other operating
costs. The current administrative organization for the ongoing
rural development projects of Paraguacu, Nordeste and Irece and
other special programs would be restructured to ensure uniformity
within the state rural development program. CAR would consist of
one executive secretariat, seven centralized services and six
regional project offices at the central level and 19 field



- 19 -
offices at the local level.  Assurances were received that CAR
would be: Ci) reorganized as explained above, prior to loan
effectiveness; and (ii) thereafter, staffed and maintained under
conditions eatisfactory to the Bank.
57.       Land Tenure Improvement.  Secure tenure of land of sufficient
quantity and quality are essential for sustained rural development. The
lands required in the State of Bahia would be identified as part of the
surveying and cadastral activities to be financed under the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para. 50 above) and subsequently
acquired through purchase or expropriation by the Government. Both
projects are part of the Northeast Rural Development Program; yet, the
improvement of land tenure conditions throughout the Northeast is such a
vast and complex task that it justifies a single, region-wide project
rather than a component in each state rural development project. Targets
(based on need, availability of suitable land, type of farming planned, and
expected inetitutional capabilities), procedures and criteria for land
acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection have all been agreed as
conditions of the Bank loan for the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project. The State and Federal Governments have provided
assurances that: (i) at least 300,000 ha in the priority areas in the State
of Bahia would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by
March 31, 1987; and (ii) at least an additional 370,000 ha in the priority
areas would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries by
March 31, 1989.
58.       Regional Agricultural Research.  This component would support
three federally funded research centers located in the Northeast: the
National Research Center for Goat and Sheep Production (CNFC) in Ceara, the
National Research Center for Cassava and Tropical Fruit Production (CNPMF)
in Bahia, and the National Research Center for Cotton production (CNPA) in
Paraiba. The production-oriented research program would assist the entire
Brazilian Northeast by providing improved, disease-free cultivars,
foundation seed for cotton and higher producing strains of goats and
sheep. The project would finance: (i) incremental costs of 22 higher
level and 53 support staff; (ii) vehicles; (iii) travel and operating
expenses necessary for implementing the research program; and (iv)
incremental laboratory and field equipment.
Project Organization and Management
59.       Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission
(IC), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (MINTER)
and comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture,
Planning, Land, Finance, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall
policy, planning and budgeting responsibility for the NRDP. StIDENE's
Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers, as regional
coordinator of the NRDP would be receiving policy backing from a regional
Rural Development Council (RDC) which is now being established and would
include representatives from all the Northeastern states.



- 20 -
60.       State and Local Levels.  A State Development Council (SDC),
chaired by the Secretary of Planning, and including the State Secretaries
of Agriculture and Water Resources; representatives of the National
Department of Drought Works (DNOCS) and the Sao Francisco River Valley
Development Company (CODEVASF); and the president of Banco do Estado da
Bahia, would provide overall orientation for the state's rural development
activities. The day-to-day work would be carried out by CAR's Executive
Secretariat whose director would be an ex-officio member of the SDC.
61.       CAR has its own budget, salary structure and administrative and
personnel procedures and would be responsible for: (i) consolidating
annual operating plans drafted by executing agencies; (ii) supervising
project performance and advising the SDC on institutional or technical
difficulties; (iii) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement
requests; (iv) ongoing project evaluation; (v) administering all training
activities; and (vi) executing the community development component. The
State Technical Commission (STC), composed of CAR's Technical Coordination
Division and all executing agencies operating within the project, would
integrate executing agencies into project activities. Chaired by CAR's
executive director, the STC would meet monthly to plan, supervise and
evaluate the implementation of the annual work plans to ensure their
compatibility with overall project goals and methodology.
62.       Unification of Rural Special Programs.  Improved efficiency in
rural development administration and the unification of the Northeast rural
special programs are central elements in project strategy. Accordingly, as
a coadition for loan effectiveness, the Bank would be provided with
evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and administration of all
current rural special programs in Bahia are unified and consolidated within
CAR at the state level.
63.       Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually. Once the Federal Government
establishes overall funding availability for the Northeast Rural
Development Program for the next year, state allocations would be
established by SUDENE in consultation with the RDC. On this basis, each
executing agency would prepare a detailed annual operating plan. CAR would
consolidate the plans, ensure internal consistency and submit them for
SDC's and SUDENE's approvals. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a
regional operating plan, to be presented to the IC as the basis for the
portaria (administrative regulation) signed by the ministers, and legally
establishing budget allocations for the State and the three national
research centers. Assurances were received that: (a) the regional
operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for comment prior to
approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan and the Bahia
state operating plan would be sent to the Bank not later than April 1 of
each year; and (c) any proposed changes in the planning and budgeting
process would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to enactment.
64.       Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency would maintain
its own separate accounts for project expenditures, to be audited annually
by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Federal and State Governments have



- 21 -
provided assurances that (a) project accounts (including the Special
Account referred to in para. 75 below) would be maintained according to
practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors
would include verification of the Statements of Expenditure and Special
Account; and (c) copies of the audit report would be provided to the Bank
within six months following the close of the project's fiscal year.
65.       Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into: (i) between SUDENE and federal
research agencies; (ii) between CAR and federal agencies; (iii) among
executing agencies, with the participation of CAR, when more than one is
involved in eyecuting a project component; and (iv) between CAR or an
executing agency and involved muncipalities or groups prior to the
construction of civil works or initiation of a community subproject. These
agreements would provide execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration and funding
conditions linked to performance criteria. The State and Federal
Governments have provided assurances that they would enter into all
necessary agreements not later than six months after loan signing.
Project Execution
66.       It is estimated that the project would take eight years to be
completed. Host participating institutions have participated in previous
Bank projects (EMBRAPA, EMBRATER and COBAL at the federal level and CEASA,
CERB, EPABA and EMATER-BA at the state level) and their strengths and
weaknesses are known to the Bank. Assurances have been received that
CERB's irrigation department would be strengthened in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank within six months from loan signing.
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements and to provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. CAR would receive
from executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial
indicators, selected among information already routinely collected by the
agencies and would produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries.
Assurances have been received that quarterly state monitoring reports would
be sent to the Bank not later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter, that CAR's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
be maintained and fully staffed, at all times, under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and that terms of reference and institutional
arrangements for project evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Cost
68.       Total project costs are estimated at US$356.2 million with a
direct and indirect foreign exchange component of US$46.8 million, or about
13%, based on the assumption that all goods and services would be acquired
in Brazil with exception of specialized consultants' services. The cost
estimate includes about US$14.2 million equivalent in applicable local
taxes. A breakdown of estimated costs is provided in page iii of the Loan



- 22 -
and Project Summary. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to
1.3% and 17% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were
added to baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply
construction; 10% for other construction; and 5% for equipment, furniture
and vehicles.  Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based
on international inflation rates estimated at 7.0% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5%
for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter.
It was assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
69.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$171.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of
taxes. The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 40X ot local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic
of Brazil whizh would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide counter-
part funds as necessary to complete the project. Funding procedures would
be those adopted for the NRDP (para. 63 abovre). Funds would be channelled
from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDENE to either a specific project
account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or directly
to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government counterpart
funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the estimated
Bank share of mcnthly expenditures. Assurances were received that the
administrative regulation (portaria) establishing the above funding
procedures for the Program would not be changed without Bank approval. The
Government, moreover, took additional decisions in August 1986 to ensure
the timely availability of counterpart funds. These decisions include the
provision in the annual Federal Budget of the full amount required for the
execution of all the Northeast Rural Development projects; the monthly
release of these resources in accordance with schedules and amounts agreed
upon with the Bank; and the simplification of procedures for channelling
the released funds to the project executing units.
On-Lending Terms
70.       The proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant
basis, to participating federal agencies and the State of Bahia. In the
case of agricultural credit, the Central Bank would rediscount the subloans
disbursed by the participating banks. Following the February 28, 1986
financial and monetary reform (para. 13 above), the Government decided, in
May 1986, to adopt a new interest rate policy for rural credit. This
policy--which is part of the policy framework for the Credit and Marketing
Reform Project (paras. 22 and 27 above)-aims at maintaining, in general,
interest rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate
according to market conditions. Another important policy objective is to
reduce credit subsidies substantially. There would be a general
agricultural interest rate, applicable to rural investment credit
operations outside the North and Northeast regions, equal to the rate on
commercial banks' certificates of deposit (Certificados de Deposito
Bancario, CDB) minus 10 percentage points. This rate would be adjusted



- 23 -
every six months, on March 1st and September let of each year, to a level
10 percentage points below the CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term
credit, the interest rate would be initially set at the level prevailing
for investment credit at the time of signing the contract and would remain
fixed for the term of the loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate
has been fixed at 10% and it is expected that, in subsequent periods, the
rate will fluctuate near 10% in real terms. The interest rates for invest-
ment and short-term credit to be applied to the small Northeast farmers who
would benefit from the proposed project would be: 2 percentage points
below the general rate, for investments in sugarcane, cocoa, coffee and
rubber; 3 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in
irrigation, which would be changed to 2.5 percentage points below the
general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage points below in 1988 and chere-
after; and 30% of the general rate, for other investments. These rates
represent a substantial improvement over the ones prevailing until last
February.
71.       During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the partici-
pating banks to carry out the project's iavestment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
paras. 56 (d) and 70 above; (c) each of the participating banks would
provide monthly information to SUDENE and CAR on investment credit
availability, demand and leading per bank agency; and (d) priority would be
given by the participating banks to allocations of short-term production
credit to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to
finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new
rural interest policy referred to in para. 70 above has provided the basis
for an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the
Government on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in
connection with the Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project
(Loan 2348-BR). This amendment also provides for an annual review of
Brazil's agricultural credit policy by the Bank and the Government.
Cost Recovery
72.       Although it is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery
on rural programs for low-income families, current legislation allows CERB
to recover 100% of annual operation and maintenance costs, and public
investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastucture over a 50-year
period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest2/. The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Program begins in 1968; at that stage consumers would
be expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State Govern-
ment provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for public
irrigation schemes would be implemented in accordance with Government
2J   For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff
Appraisal Report (Report No.5975-BR).



- 24 -
legislation that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water supply
charges covering full operation and maintenance costB would begin to be
charged to consumers in 1989. Funds allocated to the comnunity support
component would be made available to project beneficiaries on a
non-reimbursable basis (para. 56(f) above).
Procurement
73.       All civil works, estimated at US$37.0 million, would be executed
by contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures Accept-
able to the Bank.  Brazil has a competitive local construction industry
that is capable of carrying out project works. Since the individual
construction works are relatively small and quite dispersed, foreign
contractors are not expected to be interested, but would not be excluded
from bidding. In the case of some community development civil works, the
beneficiaries would carry out the works under written agreements with CAR
(para. 56(f) above. Equipment, materials and vehicles required by the
project, totalling some US$16.0 million, almost all locally produced, would
be procured by the several executing agencies at various locations over the
project implementation period, in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants'services for technical
assistance, evaluation and special studies, totalling some 16 man-years,
would be procured both locally and internationally in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000
and goods and services contracts for more than US$50,000 (about 60X of the
value of civil works and goods to be procured) would be subject to prior
Bank review of procurement documentation. The Federal and State Govern-
ments provided assurances that they would follow the procurement arrange-
ments outlined above and in the following table.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Type of Project                          Procurement Method
Expenditure               LCB          Other       None          Total
Reuired
Civil Works             37.0 (24.0)                             37.0 (24.0)
Equipment, Vehicles
and Furniture          16.0  (7.0)                            16.0  (7.0)
Technical Assistance                  1.7  (1.2)                 1.7  (1.2)
Studies and Training                             11.2  (5.9)   11.2  (5.9)
Rural Investment Credit                          74.8 (52.4)   74.8 (52.4)
Local Development Subprojects                    20.9  (14.6)   20.9  (14.6)
Salaries and Allowances                         136.4 (46.3)  136.4 (46.3)
Other Operating Expenses                         58.2  (19.6)   58.2 (19.6)
TOTAL              53.0  (31.0)  1.7  (1.2) 301.5  (138.8)  356.2 (171.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthases are the estimated respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank.



- 25 -
Disbursements
74.     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout an
eight-and-a-half-year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development, credit and support to
small communities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for
marketing. Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high
rate of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$7.0 million for state
agricultural research, US$14.0 million for extension, US$8.0 million for
administration and training and US$2.3 million for regional research have
been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would be
made at a rate of 30% of project expenditures until an aggregate amount of
US$9.0 million for state agricultural research, US$22.0 million for
extension, US$11.5 million for administration and training and US$3.0
million for regional research have been disbursed; the remaining funds for
these categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. In order to
enable project executing agencies to prepare for an early start of project
execution, eligible expenditures (except expenditures for agricultural
investment credit, agricultural extension, irrigation and water supply in
the areas of the first and second Bahia Rural Development Projects)
incurred prior to loan signing but after January 1, 1986 would be eligible
for reimbursement up to US$5.0 million equivalent. No disbursements would
be made for irrigation, water supply, extension or rural investment credit
activities carried out in any of the municipalities included in the Second
Bahia Rural Development Project until funds allocated for these purposes
under Loan 2269-BR have been fully committed or cancelled (para. 48).
Disbursement projections (Loan and Project Summary, page ii) reflect the
disbursement profile for previous agricultural projects in Brazil. Bank
approval of feasibility studies, final designs, resettlement plans and
operation and maintenance plans, and receipt by the Bank of proof of land
acquisition would be conditions of disbursement of any loan proceeds
allocated to finance the construction of any public irrigation scheme.
75.        Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical
assistance expenses under US$250,000 would be made under statements of
expenditure prepared by the various executing agencies and certified by
CAR. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would
be made available for inspection during project supervision. Standard
documentation for civil works, vehicles, equipment, and technical
assistance with contract values exceeding US$250,000 would be submitted to
the Bank. In order to reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit
equivalent to US$7.3 million. Withdrawals in Cruzados from the Special
Account, supported by statements of expenditure and other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the
date of expenditure. The Central Bank would send the corresponding
withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special
Account. An amount of $4.0 million equivalent has been set aside to



- 26 -
finance the construction of up to ten state-managed public irrigation
schemes, up to 2,500 ha, which were not sufficiently prepared at appraisal
time, to be built if justified by feasibility studies included in the
project (paras.56(a)(ii) and 74 above). If the amount so allocated has not
been committed to a specific sub-project approved by the Bank by June 30,
1988, it would be cancelled.
Project Benefits
76.       Estimated financial rates of return for appraised farm models
range from 22% to 65% and are mainly a reflection of low current incomes,
low cost and rapid return investment packages and technology improvements.
The introduction of crops better able to resist droughts would improve
yield reliability and income stability. Although cropping patterns are not
expected to change dramatically, farmers would expand on more profitable
cash crops and beef, goat and sheep production. The annual family income
of project beneficiaries at full development is estimated to vary between
US$1,100 and US$3,100, representing increases of 140% to 570% over present
income levels, not taking into account any supplemental income from
off-farm work. Improved marketing services and facilities would provide
production incentives in addition to benefiting a large number of rural
consumers. Rural water supply systems would ensure safe drinking supplies,
and community activities would provide needed employment opportunities. At
full development, expanded agricultural activity would create new on-farm
employment opportunities equivalent to some 30,000 man-years annually.
77.       The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
17%. The cost stream for the economic benefits is based on four elements:
(a) all Bahia project costs, except those related to the fund for
unidentified irrigation studies and subprojects, the water supply systems,
forestry, the initial stock for new retail shops and the community
development component, or 73% of total state project costs; (b) 10% of
regional administration costs financed under Northeast Rural Development I
Project (Loan 2523-BR); (c) 27% of regional research costs (to be financed
under both the Northeast Rural Development Project I (Loan 2523-BR) and the
proposed project) based on the proportion of Bahia's rural population
within the Northeast's total rural population; and (d) recurrent state
costs on a declining basis from Years 9 to 12 and at constant Year 12 costs
during Years 13 to 20. The evaluation of incremental net benefits
included: (a) benefits from farmers expected to use investment credit; and
(b) increased production of farms reached by the extension service.
Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into account
international prices. No benefits were included from the fish and goat
subcomponents because they are too small to have any substantial weight
when compared to the on-farm benefits. Sensitivity tests showed that the
economic rate of return is fairly insensitive to possible variations in
costs and benefits. Project benefits would need to fall by 37% or project
costs rise by about 58% before the rate of return would fall below the
estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years In
achieving project benefits, such as might occur during a severe drought,



- 27 -
would result in a 12% rate of return. A 50% drop in benefits would lower
the rate to 7%; however, a sustained drop in benefits for the entire period
of analysis (20 years) is not likely.
Project Risks
78.       Although simpler in design than previous integrated rural
development projects in Northeast Brazil, the proposed project depends on a
large number of institutions and on their cooperation with each other.
Therefore, institutional analysis and improved institutional effectiveness
were important aspects of project preparation. In addition, most agencies
involved have experience with the project's target group. Improved
monitoring and evaluation should help decrease management risks. The
project's emphasis on beneficiary participation and community involvement
would increase accountability of the executing agencies. Recurring
drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced overall project
design, particularly through increasing the focus on water resource
development and small farmer technology generation and diffusion. The
project should help increase the farmers' permanent capacity to adapt to
erratic and often adverse climatic conditions. Delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's
impact. Recent changes in funding procedures, the merging of the rural
special programs, the regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development
Program, of which the project is part, and the broad support which the
program enjoys among Government and local leaders, should help the project
to receive adequate funding. At farm level, the security of land tenure is
still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the Government's agrarian reform
should help minimize this risk.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
September 25, 1986
Washington, D. C.



MNEX I
Page 1 of 7
- 28 -
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
t9fiS       1973    Estimate       LAC           Europe
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)   8512.0       8512.0       8512.0
Agricultural {% of total)          21.1        24.6        28.0
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                                       1720.0      1782.8      1973.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         84292.1   102982.1   132580.i
Urban pop. (% of total)            50.4        59.3        71.7        68.9        48.4
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                         2.5         2.3         2.3         1.6
Urban                                         4.7         4.0         3.6         3.7
Life expect. at birth (yr.)        56.9        60.0        64.1        65.6       67.9
Population projections:
Pop. In 2000 (mill)                                     178.6
Stationary pop. (mill)                                  292.9
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land               46.9        49.3        55.5        53.5       149.1
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                         44.0        42.7        37.5        38.7       31.3
t5-64 yrs                       53.1        54.1        58.4        57.1        61.5
65 and above                      2.9         3.2         4.1         4.3        7.2
Crude birth rate (per thou)        39.3        33.4        29.6        30.1        23.0
Crude death rate (per thou)        11.0         9.6         8.0         7.7         8.8
Total fertility rate                5.8         4.7         3.7         3.9         3.0
Infant mort, rate (per thou)    104.5          89.8        67.8       56.1        53.8
Child death rate (per thou)        15.4        11.0         5.5         4.3         5.0
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)                    147.9                      --          -
Users (% of married women)                              50.0        46.2
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 * 100)             85.6        90.6       114.6       105.2       101.8
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)    100.6         102.9       106.0       109.3       129.5
Proteins (grams per day)         60.5        59.8       59.8        65.0        88.4
Pop. per physician (thou)           2.5         1 8         1.3 a       1.3         1.1
Pop. per nurse (thou)               1.5         1.1         1.2 b       1.2        0.9
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)        0.4         0.3         0.3 a      0.4         0.3
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                   55.0        71.0 a      66.3        76.5
Urban                  78.0        80.0 a      77.0        95.1
Rural                  28.0        51.0 a      44.8        62.6
Populotion Growth              Infant Mortality       Primary School Enrollmnnt
,    I :]SIoSL
5                   ~~~~~~~200
120-
-0 
50.
'ot o0 o0
1965-73 1975-B         1960 1965 1970 1975 1980      1150 1965 1970 1975 1960
E- BRAZIL                                      *  BRAZIL
CO FIRST mir GROUP                             o  riRST REFr GROUP



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
_ 29 _
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
BRAZIL
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recont    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate       LAC           Europe
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)       26505.6    32210.6    44259.1
Female (%)                      18.0        21.0       24.0        23.9       36.6
Agriculture (%)                 4S.5        40.6       31.2 a      31.8       43.2
Industry (%)                    20.0       23.3        26.6 a      26.0       25.0
Participation rate (%:
Total                           31.4        31.3       33.4        32.3       42.9
Male                            50.6        49.1       50.8        49.2       54.5
Female                          12.0        13.3       16.0        15.4       31.4
Age dependency ratio               0.9         0.8        0.7         0.8         0.6
HWJSING
Average size of household:
Total                                        4.8        4.2 a
Urban                                        4.6        4.1 a
Rural                                        5.2        4.5 a
P*rcentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                                       55.6       67.4 a
Urban                                       79.1       88.5 a
Rural                                       12.5       20.6 a
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                 108.0        82.0      102.0       107.3       108.9
Male                  109.0       82.0       106.0       109.7      111.0
Female                108.0       82.0        99.0       105.8      106.6
Secondary: Total                16.0        17.0       42.0 a      49.1       55.5
Male                 16.0       16.0        31.0 a      44.5       60.2
Female               16.0       18.0        36.0 a     46.7        50.6
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                         2B.2        22.2       26.0        29.8       24.7
Secondary                       14.9        10.4       15.7        16.3        18.0
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)                   33.2       39.3        55.2       95.4
INCOh9. CON5LPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)           285.8      588.5       753.4       199.0     1176.4
Percentage of private Income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%                     60.0 c      63.5
Lowest 20%                       3.8 c       3.2
Lowest 40%                      10.8 c       9.0
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban                             ..
Rural                                                 150.0 d
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level [X)
Urban
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.          13.5        29.8       44.7 a      45.8       93.3
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)         30.9        39.3                   94.9       141.4
EPO July 1986
Net vdInabI
Nete: Oup wrqts ar populuo.r weighted. County coerage depends en data avaIlIbilIty and Is not uniform. Unrace otherwie
noted   S rel -h ta *nV 'wr becr_e 1i0N end Ilt- 1973 btwee 1070 and Ift end mat Nt eatimet between 193 ad 1905.
a. 1960. t. 1961. c. 1M. d. 107.



- 30 -                                   ANNEX I
Definitions of Social Indicators                            Page 3 of 7
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-I) mortality rate - Number of infants
vary among countries or within one country over   per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. Fir instance, different countries define "urban  year of age, in a given year.
area" or "safe waler" in different ways.          Ciild (age 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
of children, age 1-4, per thousand children in the
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 same age group in a given year. For most developing
Toial - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries these data are derived from models using
inland waters.                                    information on infant mortality rates.
Agricultural (percentage of total) - Estimate of agri-  Family planning - acceptors, (thousands) - Annual
cultural area used for crops, pastures, markel and  number of acceptors or birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow, as percentage of    ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                            ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married wom-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita esti-    en) - Percentage of married women orchild-bearing
mates at current market prices, calculated by the  age who are practising. or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Arlas.    practising, any form of contraception. Women or
1986.                                             child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49,
although for some countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                   measured for another age group.
Total population - mid-Year (millions)
Urban population (percentage of total) - DiflRrent  FOOD, HEALTH AND NlJTRIFION
countries follow differcnt dcfinitions of urban popu-    index offood production per capita (1974- 76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability or    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                             commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Population growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-  mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instcad
tions.                                            of sugar) which arc edible and which contain nu-
Life expectaunsv a: birth (wears) - Number of years a  trients (for example, tea and coffee arc excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals,
mortality for all people at the time of its birth were  vegetables, oil seeds. cugarcane and sugar beets,
to stay the same throughout its life.             livestock, and livestock products. Aggregate produc-
Population projections                            tion of cach country is based on national average
Population in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex, fertility and  Per capita supply of calories rpercentage of require-
the demographic parameters of mortalitv rates, and  ments) - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980. until the population  rood supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                       Available supplies comprise domestic production,
Stationary popularion - The projected population  imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    supplies exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate,    culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                             1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Population density. agricultural land - Population per    (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometcr (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    activity and health considering body weights, envi-
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature, age and sex distribution of
years, working age 1564 years, and people or 65   population.
years and over as percentages of population.      Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand  content of per capita net supply of food per day. NeL
population.                                       supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand     all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                       ment of Agriculture provide for minimum allow-
Totalfertility rate - The average number of children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her    grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years shc were to  are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams oF animal protein as an avcrage for the
ing agc-specific fertility rates-                 world, as proposed by FAO.



-31 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Population per physician - Population divided by    group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a  main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.               included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided  Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number or practising graduate nurses, assistant    and rural- Conventional dwellings with electricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage or all dwellinp.
Populatlon per hospial bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enroliment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishmcnts    Primary School Enrolhnent - total, male andfemale
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
tablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                     many countries consider primary school age to be
Access to safe water (percentage of population) - total,    6-11 years, others have wider age groups. Differ-
urban. and rural - People (total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  countrics with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable    Secondary School Enrollment - total, male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access    female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools, for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incomplete respones, and  years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the  Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, and secondary - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and    students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons In addition, certain definitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The peren-
able acerss to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.        INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                       Energy consumplion per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active    valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
personsincluding armed rorces and unmployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
cxcluding housewives and students. Definitions in    gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
various countries are not compas ble.             Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
various (prcuntri- Fesmarelnot r coprae. as a pcrcen and kind) aCcruing to percentile groups of house-
tage of total labor force.                        holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousandpopulation) - Includes
forestry, hunLing and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                      cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and eclectricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                paper,' defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - total, male, andfemale    primarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage    to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These arc  Estinated absolute poverty income level (USS per
based on Intcrnational Labour Office (ILO) data on  capitaJ - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.          level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                           imate measures of poverty levels, and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                            Estimated population below absolute poverty icome
Average size of household (persons per household) -    kvel (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
tot, urban, and rural - A household consists of a  populations who live in "absolute poverty.'



- 52 -
SI
us I- mc --|
C    e  qittail 131.4  (1 Ilii91
0w hr CIPLL MDtiAM (l91)
IN1 "iSen a                                                       AMel todih MN (Z)
0mmt Prim
lndicetor                    (19W)                               Aatel                                                         Pro jected
m5s    INo        iNi       1162       193       9 %           19qL/    196-   197           3196      1939      Iwo
G_m DatIn ftlu tt             212,30          5.6      7.2      -IA        0.9       -3.2      4.5           8.3       6.6        7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5
Ipta~1h.n                    21,236          4.1      6.3      6.       -2.5        2.2      4.3            6.8       2.0       4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5
Twig"                        t2,792          5.9      7.9    -5.5        0.6       -6.8      59             9.0      6.5        9.1       9.1       9.1       9.1
lewOs                       103.825         10.3     7.3    .0.1         1.7       -1.5      3.0            7.6       6.5       7.1       1.1       7.1       7.1
_     1 maItS,165.571                         8.4      3.5      0.2        3.3      -2.        0.t           9.1       6.0        .4       6.         6.7       6.5
OWN D tan/b                    31,817        -7.0      12.1   -15.       -4.2      -17.5       1.0           8.3       23.5       A.4      12.6      12.2      12.0
bMu,n af GS                    29399         12.4    22.7       20J1      4.6        13.6     2.5           -L2       -1.5       6.0        1.0       58        6.1
imaeort GE G                   17,865         9.6      1.8   -13A       -4.2       -17.2    -4.5            -L5        2J.7      5.7       11.9      10.5       9.9
CGm  TIaltsl  uwiM             5,81          -6.4      11.6   -16.6    -10.6        -3.4      22.6           10.2      31.5      21.9      9.7       11.1      12.3
Prime
CU hittr  (1970.300)                         Ms       2,955    58*      11.0       2,211    1,541      S29,711
bd.we Rae (verg,a/LI3)                        341    S27        93.1     179.5      577.0  1.6.9          6.30
BsM  ao OF M- e    km     (I)               bM_p   al  oere.. (Z)
(t Om Pd.O,)                                        (At Ozutag 19* Mhm)
1975      1953      hEAfl d   33 19D                                  196045   xs1E
Cme Doetic Naict                     102.0     1DD.D 0     D3.   DL0.0                             6.5        1.7      7.
AIdosIbare                           9.2      I.0       11.5       9.                            9.5        3.5       4.1
-,   try                            31.1      23.0      29A       32.2                           4.6       0.5        9.0
sl is                               43.6      41.8      48.7      4.0                            7.1        13        7.0
Cmut.d                                76.6      81.3     78.6      73.5                           7.7       2.2       5.9
Cum ."Imnwt                           273       21.1      16A       Z5.0                           2.8      4.2        16.5
b aanefS                               7.5       6.1      12.5       1.0                           6.4       IAo       4J
I' art -ws                            11.6     I.2        7.5       9.5                          -1.3      -9.5      11.7
Cro  Homl  5le1                       22.1      16.1      16.8      2.8                           -1.6       4.5       16.1
A of   of w P
(Ae oww   cn  im  Pim.)
thd fa  ((F ra1 Ctmas)                                   1970     1975        117 195   19
ar  tame                                                 16.6      19.3    11.8 20.1   18.9    21.2
on u      tdin                                           14.4     15.8    17.6    19J      M.2    25.4
Sutph  CO) aE DLfict (-                                   2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3    -1A    -4.2
cpital EHxPituxt                                          2.6      3a       3.7     4.1     3.5     3.4
RVl    (gMM)                                              0.4    -0.2      0.5      3.9     4.9     7.6
Other Ird7atm                     1975-6   11H145 19S5S0
GNP Unwth Rae (7)                  7.0      0.5      7.8
GNP 1r Crit. hte    R 3(2          3.0    -1.9       5.5
3u/ maamt1aLlb -   (1)    6.5               -       -
ICR                                3.3     20.7     3.0
1u15  Sat  RRe                     0.0      03       0.5A
Impot E     blity                 4i.2     -2.4      1.6
/a At --%- prim;    w           -C ..               a  aid eU n aM du t enchale mf    Id'             n    d aibddn.
7F 1J75-80  tim    a  fr gn lm           ; etit. fr madaupar yr. -  fr fiat Java.  zide bw. I                     ks d_dsM  In samin.-
7T; PmojectS  ceat flat Prw.
/d  PkliSmry.
7F 1980-BZ uri-. ar      t epaite  Ef nu  dwuh SM  nay  b                easd * Sr pam   Cd. - tela -              , * tUso e. ffal ambs.
lat 15, 1966



- 33 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN 
1421 - MUIAL IAJZ
AMmU
IW11 .61. s                                               Ammi reb    1 KM  (2) - (at mutin  1970 prion)&
Q:m    rdcm
Indicator                     (198I AI  tuaI                                                                                       Prn jaatad
1975     191        w         Sl          "3       114        18S         ^         97       l           lK       l
1rMt *ila  D90ftr               25637            23.9      21.2       9.9      -3.0        27.3      X.1         L6        -1.5       6.0        5.0        3.8        .
Pr1rdj                          11.9            30.7      20.4      46.8     -10.1          .3       3.        24. -I.A               8.2       3.          .        3.6
IlaI mwa                        13,638           0.0       Z.5      10.6       7.4        45        A.3       -15.4        I.4       4.5        39         7.3      8.3
M nhid1m  IqPt.                  13.163         -15.0       1.4      -9.4     -2.3        -13.9      -2.2       -4.6       25.7        5.7      11.9       10.3       9.9
kod * 0x.mmr xIa                1.597           8.2     13.2    -54.0        -1.2        4.1      -2.0        -3.3      119.9     -45.0        7J         7.0      0.6
PISM3141r                       5.6%9          -3.8      -9.6     -5.0       -Lb        -30.6    -.7         -U3.0        2.2      D0.9       11.7      K10        10.1
HdM    Md  equlpui              2.49            9.        6.4      6.9      -32.2       -13.0      8.         14.5       42.3       3.6       16.1       13.6      12.0
Odur                            3.450         -22.6      -2.2       3.0     -W.3        -20.3      2D.9        2.9       13.1       32.3       9.4        9.2      a.4
&Wart him r  imi                                   O9      L17         128       114         91        L00        98        KM         106       114        122       131
1lart Pdcn1dm                                      71       125       138        152        143       IOD         99          4        91         98        3W        111
Tm dof Th7  rdsc                                   1        le         93        7          66        1O0D       91        12         117       136        116       a18
xqwmLtta  of Hn'dud.. Trob (1)                                 &Au     AMml bmftm  (Z)
(at Wamit Pri.)                                          (t om t  1970 pidm)Ld
1975       1980       1985       1990                           39754)   398345t   19854
E URt                                   100.0     100.0      1D.0       300.0                             5.8      II1         4.5
PrilST&                               62.7       44.8       46.6      48.                               1.1       8.6        3.6
_        hIUMa W/b                     37.3      55.2       53.2       52.0                            18.2 /a   23.2        5.5
:or                                     300.0     200.0      103.0      100.0                           -1.4       -7         12.5
Food ard  a   r Codo                   9.8       11.1       12.0        0.8                            17.5     -17.6        8.3
.m,,o                                 275     .4            444 .1    37.5                             4.3        9.4        8.9
ddii md VpAp-ui                       26.5       15.4       19.2       2f.3                           -7.5       -7.4       21.4
odu.                                  3J.3       21.1       26.7       26.4                           -1.9       -5.3       10.5
gum of        .13.                  Sgm  cc tn& id,th            d          rn  of tram wIh SCll
IrA lCntrW kets CZ)                   mvlqp    Crxl_d  (2)                   aporti   rl_d   (S)
Dlatimo at Trale                     1975     19O      1963    Iw4         1975      190D     1983    190        1975      1980    1983    1986
EDv                                7D.2      57.3   59.7    63.3          23.5      2.5    23.9    22.0         2.8      10.3      f.8     8.6
Ildpr                             67.3      41.8    37.1    39.6          8.7      151      16.3    17.6       21.3      41.1    41.6    38.9
/a  For ti  prid 1981-1990. Pd_ry Pzruxta  ldu&   .d 3xp        .          p"  Irnn  m.
ha Ftr dw yeri  1975-1I0, umwatw    hltdi   itw    od.
-W  bj9d iip     al miexpom an! at INA prim..
AlpAt 15, 3986



-34- 
(UN4 OilISIO st Girrmit Prites.)
PeIpAtefftni       116.4 MIlttbbton(idNltIss
039 Per Ompital 33t69160 (1911)
us   1960        396!141      [lE         1962        3ist         1965 LA. 3*6            1983        39336        lisp        3993
Pont (short. of 0,.cdm ant Oeroleeo    -6,702        -12,561      -11.192    -34,742       -6,2510         343          326         266         330        -lIZ        -126         -231
neperis of aced.                         6,670      30.132      133,295      3,3175      21,691      17,90        25,637      27,300      29.383       31,060      37,542      43,067
lwpsrle of acne.                        122130      22,951      22,011       19,31       15.429      13,934       33,111      34,066      35,926       39,343      22,639      21,511
Net Pastor IOWNs                        -1,735      46.623       4,.533    -iI,132    -30,133    .10,191    .10,141           4,8191      '9,962    .1,6 10.76      a  46    .11,364
(at whichinlterest pujeentm           (2,3242)    (6,333)    17,961)       (9,526)    (6.4733    (9,j4)   (9,5333           (6.216)    (1,427)    (8,7031    (9,053)   (9,2163
on FISt? debt)
Net Men-Fector ftvise.                  -1,629      -.1,220     -2,863       -1,189      -1,401      -1,745       -3,702      -2,677      -3,331      -3,925       -4,686      -5,5(7
bot Troanelr.                                  is         326         l6t         -30          304         172          156           D           1                 0      a0
(srnent Acouect baolene                   .6,669    -12,436    -11,001    -34,253          -6,141          3113        279          Ito         130        -632        -176        -313
btrert Privest  ineomteect                   682        1,323       13,55         903          464       3,074         102           92Z        677       1,042        1,242       3,423
1663 .01 s.n  (Ndtl                        4,1630       4,693       1,450       7,491        2,121       6,325        1,354       3.446       2.253       3,133       1,133        3,189
ire,.  laburoeseete                    (N,9I)   E1,111)D   (36,045)   (34.963)   (30.9033            36,093       11,687      34,299      13.543       36,438     31,313       36,511
waetin.eticc                            (2,152)    (6,3203       17,395)     (7,466)    E3,57I)jj   7,336         30,5133     32,02       331,296      31.102      32,072      31,324
Irecllt,,, Lees. Abrmel (1et)               '.360          21p       -923        -"94          (22         634         S0u       1,400        3,905s     -2,1332     -2,431      -2,364
Other Cepitea llnoludtmg error.
eel nnld-tosol                             -71       3.461        2,151       3,10b      -1.92       4,9103      -1,5121        46           4926        -13?      471         -my7
Chante In lesnirne (- indie.tee
iverrs,.)                                3,2216      1,35         -949        4,353          24      -7,023          437        -112        4601      -3,106      -1.14D3       3,237
Interneational lemvenm  Is                 5,7361      6,tLJ        7,509       I.93        4,564       (3.994      33,409      13.357      33,762       32,866,     34,00b      35,242
(Of which- gc-d                             54       3.145          901          65         201          460       (.404        m...        M...        n...         me..        n...
temeno, 0  Ime  the of leper,, (0675)           3.5         3.0         3.3          3.t         2.5         7.2         7.3          1.0         6.1         5.9          5.11        3.2
Ceere  ptntal med Debt
DOrm. Oimburvaente                         6,932       31,313      36,045      14.96)       L0,UIi      36,060I     31,667l     14,299       33,545      36,430      33,123      36,1133
Official Greet, .                                                  -           -           -            --                      ---- 
csmeepemmtea  Loem.                        103           19         31          too        -                        ------
ORG                                       83           16          12         a6o        -                        ------
OPEc-                                                                                    -           ----                                                          --
IDA                                                 -           -            -           -           --                       -----
Other                                     3!5           1           2        -           -           ---                                  --- 
Ksn-Gnnmoteeeisal Loem.                  6,830      33,294       36,026      34,W03      30,198      36,036       31,667      34,299      33,345       36,416      15,723      36,513
official teport Credit.                  133         412         465          842       2.093       3,307        3,237       1,330       3,350       1,266        1.260       1.241
tab                                      250         34)          293         623       3,20        3,296          790       3.209       3,518       3,611        3,830       3,855
Other Motti.teere                        330         l66          390         131         233         360          730         304         335          233         166         423
P'icece                               6.130       30,353      34,152       33,003       6,178      13,228       9,564       33,465      32,322      32,939       32,209      32,996
leenlDebt
Debt Outmtandtng en. OleheraS           23,536      16,490      66,639       33,034      78,673      07,0313     69,079       90,325      92.776      96,093      99,805    1(313393
PuhllclPubltely tearantmd             13,923      39,691      44,833      49.931       17,115      66,303      19,079      90,321       92,776      94,092      99,901      la3,363
Priwete Onm-Guetentoed                 9,393      36,603      39,192       23,323      21,112      20,33       n.m.      .              n.R.        n...       S.e..         ec
llndIebareed Debt                        3,716      13,021      52,443       14,323      53.9131     33,112       33,002      3619        16,123       11,038      33,346      153,14
181(3 12X'21JtM  Ct)
326" d1lehmrenmnratstel. of 
dt.b.roemeet.                  3.5         3.2          2.4         6,2        33.3         0.0          6.6         11.3        9.9         13,2        11.6        33.2
3365 1E011/tote  0D3                         4.7          3.7         1.6         1.7         4.6          4.3         3.3         6.2         3.0          1.0         8.7         9.4
IIci Debt servlcejtst4l S,   SenIw           7.5          2.3         2.2         2.5         6.2          3.8         3.9         6.3         6.9          5.1         6.8         7.3
Debt De.-t.e
Total Service 7tiefuemte lb              3,670      13,143      31,131       3,8235      33.206      20.975       39,861      23,070      21,720      33,601       33,06       22,362
I.rereeftln                           (2,0423      6,3j31      7,94.       9,124        0,471       9,646       9,333       6,236        6,427       6,703       9,035       9,236
Payencre an I Ruperte (C3763                36.61       36.5         60.6        73.7        46.Qff      72.3         76.6        75.4        71.4         61,9        56.3        50.4
Au.rree Internet Aete mm NeW
Cuemnt-d Lees. (I) Is                          6.7        12.7        15.3        22.7         33.4        32.2         9.1          9.2         9.1         0.2         9.2          9.0
OffIcial                                     0.0          0.3        30.6        30.9        30.5        33.2         n.....                  e..          e.          n..         me.S
Pricets S-m,e                                8.9         33.6        360.3       33.3        33.6         12.15        ..         c.          ne          ne            ..         eg
Avere. Heterity of Oro
Cuearunteed L-en. (leerel I.                  9.0          9.7         9.7        10.9          9.1         8.6         9.         33.6         33.6        II13,6      33.6         33.6
Oftficil                                     18,4        12.7        32.6        13.7         12.9         6.         n..         eg            .-.        e.A.        n.m.        ne
Pin.ts Snort                                 6.9         8.9          9.0        30.2         8.4         8.3         A..         eg           .-.         e.M.        -..         e.m.
An 2 of Debt Oetctedt,g
Septeeber 313, 3983
KLtctrlty Structure of Public Debt cetetedmiing
Ileturittee dee within S youre                                       63.25
Metmritime lee withint 30 Ie...                                      92.63
Interoet Structure of Debt Ote.teedlng
Dunesot doe .ethte the fLyat peer                                 h...
4cDeem not InclSe 8018 end dell., eclecticn aijuetemt.
b. interet and eesrttomttnn. -o vttee eNJ lons temo dbt.
flPublic Debt only for 1975.
U   Peelleery.
7;  Ieterent We weiim end Ieq-tmre debt.
T? intludee only eeetitcttcn settealy p.1d.
're. - lNot *ve1J.cbto.                                                                                                                                 AnomtL 13, 19866



35-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(AS of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Inan #   Year           Borrower                  Purpose       Cancellations bursed
(Us$ Mllions)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                 3,672.7
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Tndustry          83.0       24.6
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0         .9
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Development      11.0        1.1
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0       11.6
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                 127.4        8.1
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension      100.0         .2
1589     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      37.0       11.0
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0         .1
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0       14.6
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development      70.0       18.5
1721     1979 COPEL                            Power                 109.0       22.3
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      31.4        6.8
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                 107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control      34.0       22.2
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          130.0         .1
1839     1980 Brazil                           Urban Transport       159.0       26.9
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          139.0       13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education              32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development      63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                 100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       12.4
1939     1981  ELETROERAS                      Power                  54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBTU                           Urban Transport        90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Water Supply          180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development  250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            29.0       13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            60.0        4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            67.0       25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                          Health                 13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                          Highways              240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       11.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                      Power                 182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       16.2
2170     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9       99.2
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7       27.0
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9        3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                            Iron Ore              304.5       69.3



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Contlnued)
(As of March 31, 1986;-
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads           154.0      102.6
2249     1983  Banco Nactonal da Habitacao     Water Supply           302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries        400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Development       67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development       52.7       40.J
2347     1983  Brazil                          Export Development    352.0          .7
2348     1983  Brazil                          AgriLulture            303.0         .5
2353     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                  250.6      223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                  222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education               20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                          Education               40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways       210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                  55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                          Health Studies           2.0        2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                          Development Banking   300.0       249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                          Education               72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                          Rural Development       61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                          Rural Development       61.4       61.4
25351   1985 Brazil                            Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3       16.3
2563     1985 Brazil                           Railways               200.0      184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                      Power Transmission    400.0       388.8
2565     1985 Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0       301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                          Land Tenure            100.0      100.0
26237    1985  State of Santa Catarina         Urban Development       24.5       24.5
26547Y   1985  Braz!l                          Urban Reconstruction  100.0       100.0
Total                                               11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                2,169.37
Total now outstanding                               8,977.73
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                               3,890.5
/I Not yet effective.
7T No iDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3 Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all 3ank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-37 -
fliS ii
NOq. 3 it 3
IP. ?WA'Ml9MW_ F ICFt DMI'MNI  (m of *4ri' II_, Mt
Pined                                                                                                                            AmuiamIn SI$ *tl I tIln
Year                                        06b I I 4p1                    o                     f Nvflhwnlirrao              l      1  Iu1Ntv    Thltl
1957                   5tm do lSirst Cih. de Klectrteldndo                                orlmtrlrnl FrApeimont                  2JI       -        2.11)
1955                  OltrnkrmFt. S. A. Opltuks" P Iiirl                                Pulp miid l'apr                          1.3)       -        1.20
1955                  b. n. R. Pliucta   *b  ruit, S. A.                               A.hijtitw  rirts                        11.45       -        0.45
1991                 Wbly-Owr1ad do Brasil. S. A. - IrLchtrtn P  mtrrctn                Hatrr Vehier.s                           2.45       -        2.45
1959                  GmpmdA lnitm de Chatnto Ibrtlnd, S. A.                           t;mt                                     1.2tl      -        1.20
1959                  tai.pin  rahdlne, S. A.                                           NIb1p                                   4.t         -        4.11)
196d/1966/1972       Ahb  VYilnrmw, S. A.                                               Stadl                                    H.1n       1.31     9.q3
196/1Y69             P.I'l e GilIn. Oltarnrtm , S. A.                                  14tp owl l'mrr                          1.78       5.M1      9.49
19.7/1972             tittFertlI. S. A. - tihr tria * Cmtrcto 6, Fiortmit2mta.          Fort] ler.s                              8.22      l.)'    11.25
1969                  PletrS qnJtueS  Ltso, S. A.                                       Pettrr.ductmh                            5.50      2465      A.lt
1970                  PollnIefiina, S. A. Imlmtrhn e GiOrctr                            Pt-trfrhtwcaln                           9.50      2.J       8.115
1971                   ditem. S. A. IncIktrfla e Orcdo                                  Petriolnuimln                           t.fjl       1.44     6.04
19il I       k          ato Unpu  - Cotpmnhbn de Celulm. do Snt                        nItp                                     4.90        -        4.90
1972/19751981        CGopahia do ats o NImSannl dcle Iium                              (hit                                    169.14     6.70    575.84
1973/74f77j818/3f4    Omqhttin Siden,rtca dn Goinra - t -t hIt                          Stud                                    76.97     15.27    92.24
1973                  Cprdl Mnrket bowlqutmt Fld - RWF                                   Dul tel Market  velrwuent               5.51       -        1.51)
1973/1978/1983        tunrsa dp Dmwnlvlvnto   de Rtoerowm   Nitwratg - 0lrI   S. A.   NldEts f4atg and Rbf1a1fK                85.51      HI,'    93.7t
1974                  hdiutrLm Villaris, S. A.                                          Elevaton rAS tmintrhal Eqatprent        6.11i       -        6.tC
1974                  Fihriclrd  TecidoTnrunne,. S. A.                                  Texrl m                                35.11       -       ll.O0
1975/1979             Cupmaa CarhinI Iruistrim Ltd.                                     Cirhxn SLk                              6.1B        1.19     7.37
1975                  Ctkmi Nordeat. S. A.                                             I5'trcladcal]i                          10.11        -       KI.M
1976                  Snrttat Irdutrin - Text!! do Iordegite, S. A.                     Texttile                                6.45       5.00      7.45
1976/1980            Tentr S. A. - Teattl retadritw  do Nai   te                        Textiles                                16.20       -       16.20
1977                 IfM 5 A. Prtodct. Iktlumcnm                                            mnn ad Amsdnm Cmttlra              30.no        -       Zl,O
1977                  Mtnerao Rio do brte S. A.                                         Mtnrdy                                  15.nO       -       55.0t)
1978                  Ctlmecl Sidenuxla S. A.                                           Inn an: Steel                           o.38       3.00     11.38
1979                  Volvo do fritl Mlt.e e Vemloim. S. A..                             intr Vhrcles.                         60.02       5.27    65.27
198D                  lirlM  do  Nmioedte S. A. - Hilu_4                                tafrare ilimnora                        2J1D        -        2_80
1910                 lDen  do Pare SIA - Dlwo  - Agrtclturn, tnohetria
e Cnrrcn dL 05nubtnaq                                          PatlotiL                                3.50       1.4)      4.50
1980                  VtllaIns tdbainrt, de Rbe S. A. - VIIISA                          Iran jad Steel                          5.110       -        5.oo
19HO                  PRil- COpoihun Inmital do Polipr1tlem Snlnlcli. rid Petrodnuc cals                                       15541       2.00     17.01
1980                  Duttilarusn Clmurne S. A.                                         Q2udcala aid Petrodwacnila               -         0.25      0.25
1960                  Snve Anemnia Qiutesn e Minral S/A                                 F-ertilArs                              15.00      6.40    41.0)
19Wt                  Pb)ijgi Petr.nqutles                                              Chnuicala and PetTodrtmnin             43.0t       5.00    48.00
1981                  Rnmaulpr                                                         Fhnw mra Capital IMtrets                 -         5.90      1.50
1981                  Ct ;utia IImlIeirn dei AKmopeonrha - tIRAPS!                      Fint mmd mFer Poessirc                  5.50       3.W       8.50
1981                  ltilfo                                                           ChltooLs am  PorTodnirnls              46.00       4.00     50.00
1982                  Chlento CAF ME                                                    tean mad rnntnmetirtm MaterIals        40.00)      5.0      45.00
1982                  AgINrula       S. A.                                              thaw  upsttolnt t t                     31.O       0.45     3t.45
1983                  Cla Riqgrumi de Particrzla,oea (DIP)                              May Capital torket                      -           .01      .01
O83                  Atias FrigorlfIco                                                  Food ird Food Proositur                13.00       -        13.00
19t3                  Cnqsti Dnde do Ar, (03JEA)                                        Pal rds                                h.10       -         6.10
1983                  PSA - P.el de Taprun  S.A.                                       Nlp & Pper ProdocLi                     6.0w        5.17    65.17
1983                  Sococa/S.A.                                                       Food md Food  rrnaimat                  3.0        2.50      5.50
19B3                ctI                                                                 Omi t and Dnqrurtirn  Materials        35.0D       -        35.00
IGH6                 NEtudlor Prace                                                     OaQnls w1  PetrxoclaLa                  3.51)      5.09      8.00
1984                 Comp.*dn Alcolquinitca t*mol                                       Ontiadcls and ?etoduicals              20.3        4.00    24.00
1985                  WAsca da b lahLndcaLs s  ad Petcdhnlala                                                                   3.20       1.0      5.W
TOtWl Grw C n t                                                                                935.42     105.72  5,47.1.14
Lem Caimllatlnu. Ternatromn,  nV pts mi Sale                                                  679.95     30.78    71D.73
Total Camtnmese Man eld Iy UC                                                                 255.47     74.94   310.41
Thias) lVrxlarhnmd                                                                              t4.44      14.82    79.l
A,rl  1 7, 191e



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BAHIA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  SUDENE and Federal and State
Government Agencies with Bank
and FAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :  1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure        : December 1984
(e)  Negotiations                       : October 1985
(f)  Estimated Loan Effectiveness          September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Loan Conditions
(a)  rural investment credit would be granted in accordance with terms
agreed with the Bank (paras. 56(d) and 70);
(b) community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between CAR and the grant's beneficiaries has been signed (para.
56(f));
(c) land would be available for distribution at times and in
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 57); and



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) funding procedures would be maintained on the terms agreed with
the Bank (para. 69).
2. Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) CAR would be restructured (para. 56(g))
(b) All current regional rural special programs would be unifted at
the state level (para. 62).
3. --Special Condition of Disbursement
Bank approval of final designs, resettlement plans and operation
and mainitenance plans and receipt by the Bank of proof of land
acquisition, prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated
to finance construction of any public irrigation scheme (para.
74).
4. Special Condition of Cancellation
The amount of US$4.0 million equivalent, set aside to finance the
constructi.on of up to ten additional public irrigation schemes,
would be -:ancelled if such construction is not justified by
prerequisite feasibility studies and if the funds are not
committed to a specific project approved by th3 Bank by June 30,
1988 (para. 75).



I3RD 1
B R A Z I L                                                                                                                                                                             PERNAMBUCO
NORrHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMEN  PROGM                       -7 |42*
ProJEct1 t.>hr4    {    S    T     ' t \ ' A O
STATE OF BALA                                                            PIAUI
*    u   b ,gii AdmnIhalso* Offae
A-  waty Aw
coo., I~ty
ft*  kw gIh.m
b2lWto4WG9    .. .u.d-I 
t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OER TEV 
MAUN  w                                                                    xd ,,                                                                  }f '                                       /i A'
v                                \                                              < /C 0vde                 0   ' 2v;:i~~0  ~  8 ir
-I  x  8ce r     .2  r     I,
D.\  ~ r _                                                                      io , ,so   ,loc  1,  ,_sc    *1  ,ti do if/ 
|u" e1R*O Puf M. ee
rL  1'X>t lm                  0               -       _                                                                                                                          rr
ri z~~~~~t;      G' li  L _-._.............................._f|rf



