Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2711-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
-OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
February 20, 1980
Thl i documnt bas a restbied disRibuon and may be ned by recipents only In the perfomnce of 
dtir eSci duts. Its contets may not oterwise be dioused witho  Word Bank uhoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =           US$1.43
1 US Dollar                              LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBE                         - Central Bank of Egypt
DIB                         - Development Industrial Bank
MIDB                        - Misr Iran Development Bank
SSI                         - Small Scale Industrial Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB-IV) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
Guarantor:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:              US$50 million
Terms:               The loan would bear interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
It would be repaid substantially in conformity with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules for sub-loans,
with a maximum repayment period of 15 years.
On-lending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent by DIB to sub-
borrowers at an interest rate of not less than 11 percent
per annum. As under the previous Bank loan, the foreign
exchange risk between the Egyptian Pound and US Dollar
will be borne by the sub-borrower and that between the US$
and currencies of disbursement by the Government.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to provide a part of DIB's foreign
exchange requirements over about two years. Besides
enabling DIB to continue to provide foreign exchange
resources to industrial projects in the private sector,
which has received renewed Government support recently,
DIB will increase its financial and technical assistance
to small scale industrial enterprises (SSI). Over 1980-81
DIB will allocate 30 percent of its total term-lending to
SSI. DIB will also allocate up to $10 million of its
total foreign currency resources in those years to assist
smaller SSI. Up to 20 percent of the loan proceeds could
be made available to public sector enterprises with export
potential. During the commitment period of the loan,
DIB's institutional framework would be further strength-
ened to provide assistance to industrial enterprises in
E                             the private sector.  No special risks are associated with
the project.
Free Limit:          $650,000 for individual sub-loans
Final Date of
Projects Sub-
mission:            June 30, 1982
Procurement:         Through international shopping procedures which require
comparison of offers from more than one supplier.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diascked without Worid Bknk authorization.



Estimated Bank
Loan Disburse-
ments:                             -----------------US$ Millions---------------
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                           -       4.2    13.0    17.8    13.2       1.8
Cumulative                       -       4.2    17.2    35.0    48.2    50.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2669-EGT, dated February 6, 1980
IDF Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) with the guarantee of the Arab
Republic of Egypt, for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help finance part
of the foreign exchange requirements of DIB's development finance operations
through December 1981. The loan would bear interest at 8.25 percent per
annum. Repayments would be according to a schedule reflecting the composite
amortization schedule of the sub-loans financed. The maximum repayment period
is 15 years, including three and a half years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic mission visited Egypt during September-October
1979. Subsequent to that a report on "Recent Economic Development and
External Capital Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 28, 1979. The findings of this report are incor-
porated in the following. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the "open-
door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and approved in a
national referendum in May 1974. This strategy aims at accelerating economic
deveLopment through modernization and making Egypt's largely publicly-owned
and centrally-controlled economy more market-oriented. Specifically, the
strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations, many
of which are to be replaced by the price mechanism; (ii) the decentralization
of decision-making in state-owned enterprises; (iii) a more active role for
the private sector, including private foreign investors; and (iv) expanded
economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of external
assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued by 44
percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange restrictions
were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas,
and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offers attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
1/ Part I of this report is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Agroindustries Project, which is being submitted for consideration by the
Executive Directors.



- 2 -
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade with
COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit was established
in the Central Bank and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        A Five-Year Plan was adopted in 1978 and is currently under revision,
in accordance with the Government's desire to periodically reassess development
perspectives and respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
In support of the overall plan, a number of sector and subsector programs are
currently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank and other donors.
These include a Water Master Plan, various industrial subsector studies, a
review of the transport sector, and an electrification program.
6.        In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially by
a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual enter-
prises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) introducing material
incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales, (iv) adjust-
ing the work force to production requirements by not having to hire additional
people, and (v) undertaking some investments from their own resources.
Provincial authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment decisions.
7.        A start has been made in rationalizing the price structure and
increasing price flexibility. The share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control has decreased, and prices for a number of controlled
products (including agricultural crops and some public service tariffs) were
substantially increased. Interest rates have been raised several times and now
stand at 10 to 12 percent for lending (to non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5
percent for term deposits. Private sector activity is being encouraged and
has been freed from many previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of
foreign investment contracts are being signed, especially in the important oil
and tourist sectors.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
8.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions have yielded
impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to $5.5 billion
in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of foreign exchange. This was
accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and industrial exports from
COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addition, the Government
managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of
medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion per annum during 1975-78,
compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of
these aid flows came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly
concessional terms.
9.         Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have resulted in
a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened the country's
creditworthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks



- 3 -
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $443 million at end-1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the
Development of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in
debt payments, which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These
changes have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatpned Egypt's
financial position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have
also eased the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end 1973 to an estimated $10.0 billion
at the end-1978--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent,
during the same period. This reflects not only more favorable credit terms --
i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--but also the rapid increase
in foreign exchange earnings.
10.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of
investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of existing
production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding interest
payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.5 billion in
1978; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers enabled
them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods--including fertilizer
and pesticides--and spare parts, thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had
constrained local production. Together with investments in new capacities and
a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these
developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
11.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 9 percent per annum during 1974-78. Much of
the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufacturing, transport
and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand, increased
very slowly (about 1 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was very high,
about 13 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in workers' remit-
tances from $189 million in 1974 to $1,760 million in 1978. The higher level
of economic activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring
oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the excess labor force that
existed in the early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to
emerge in a number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
12.       Since 1974 Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from
about 18 percent to about 25 percent on average in the 1976-78 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign savings
including the massive growth in workers' remittances.  National savings increased
from 2.3 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 12 percent in 1978, reflecting the
rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, however, while showing
some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of investment in the 1974-
78 period. A major cause for this in-adequate level of domestic savings was the
continuously low and sometimes even negative savings generated by the government
budget. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged less than one percent



- 4 -
of GNP, and their contribution to the financing of public investment averaged
less than 10 percent. This was the result of high defense and security expendi-
tures, large consumer subsidies and fast growing interest payments which, taken
together, claimed 79 percent of the government's tax revenues in 1978. At the
same time, savings generated by public enterprises remained constrained by
price regulations. The result has been a continuous shortage of domestic
funds, which in many instances has slowed down the implementation of investment
projects.
Recent Economic Developments
13.        Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1979 was about 8.6
percent, close to the average achieved during 1975-78. The increase of agri-
cultural value added (2.6 percent) was significantly above the long-term
trend because of favourable climatic conditions and improved distribution of
inputs. Growth in industry and mining continued at 7.8 percent, close to the
1975-78 average. There was, however, a marked slowdown in the growth of the
petroleum sector, 20 percent in 1979 compared to 34 percent in 1978, reflecting
the lack of major discoveries in recent years and the approaching "peak" in
production from existing fields. Overall, the growth rate in the commodity
sectors realized in 1979 (6.9 percent) was close to the 1975-78 average (7.6
percent). Growth in the distributive and service sectors, about 12 percent
and 9 percent respectively, continued to be significantly higher than in the
commodity sectors.
14.        Egypt's foreign exchange earnings continued to grow rapidly in 1979.
Based on preliminary estimates, merchandise exports increased by about 38 per-
cent in value due to a major increase in petroleum revenue made possible by the
surge in world prices. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, increased by
only 11 percent in current value. With the continued growth in Suez Canal
earnings (17 percent) and officially recorded workers' remittances (11 percent),
the current account deficit declined by about 15 percent from its 1978 value
to about $1.5 billion. While the current account improved substantially, esti-
mated medium- and long-term capital inflow in 1979 ($2,410 million) was about 29
percent below its 1978 value ($3,373 million) reflecting the cessation of cash
inflows from GODE ($500 million in 1978), and a drastic decline in bilateral
disbursements from Arab sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about
$300 million in 1978). As a result, the overall balance (current account plus
net MLT capital flows) showed a small deficit ($18 million), and there was
some net short-term borrowing (about $150 million). Prospects for 1980 are
reasonably good, with petroleum revenue expected to exceed $2 billion and Suez
Canal earnings increasing as a result of recent increases in the Canal's
capacity as well as higher tariffs. In addition net MLT capital flows are
projected to grow significantly. Growth in these sources of foreign exchange,
and continued growth in workers' remittances and tourism receipts, would
permit the resumption of rapid growth in imports of producer goods essential
for sustaining high rates of investment and GDP growth.
15.       Reforms in trade, exchange rate and incentive policies have contri-
buted significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of payments.
Continued care must be taken, however, that incentives remain appropriate and
are adapted to changing circumstances. The gap between interest rates on
foreign and domestic deposits will have to be closed to channel more workers'



remittances and tourism receipts into official channels and prevent the
re-emergence of a large dual foreign exchange market. Periodic adjustments in
the exchange rate may also become necessary if the unofficial "free market"
rate were to start deviating substantially from the "unified" official rate.
In 1979 the free market premium fluctuated around 8 percent and significant
downward pressure on the exchange rate did not develop.
16.       The domestic fiscal situation remains an area of major concern.  The
overall budget deficit increased to reach about 22 percent of GNP in 1979.
Domestic financing of this deficit has gone up from 5.9 percent of GNP in 1977
to about 13.2 percent in 1979, increasing the pressure on money supply and
prices. While public revenue increased by 21 percent, current expenditure
alone increased by about 37 percent, principally because of a doubling of
subsidy payments linked.to the exchange rate adjustment. Furthermore, in
spite of increasing revenue from petroleum and the Suez Canal, the public
enterprise sector still generated only half of the surplus that would be
required to finance its investment program.
17.       There are indications of a growing Government effort to contain
widening budgetary deficits. Already in 1979 two major agricultural input
prices (e.g., fertilizers and pesticides) and a wide range of other prices
(e.g., cement, gasoline, railway freights, etc.,) have been substantially
raised. The 1980 budget contains similar provisions and net domestic borrowing
is projected to decline. This is expected to be achieved through a variety of
measures: a new sales tax and elimination of tax loopholes, increases of 20
to 30 percent in consumer prices of mass consumption articles such as cloth,
cigarettes, soft drinks, sugar, petrol, kerosene, as well as limiting the
ration card system to the lowest income groups and eliminating subsidies
on flour for uses other than the production of traditional bread. The net
revenues derived from these measures will be complemented by a large increase
in revenue from the petroleum sector. The overall fiscal situation is,
therefore, likely to improve in 1980, unless massive increases in public
investment expenditures are allowed to outweigh the increase in revenues.
Development Potential and Constraints
18.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The rea-
sons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively skilled
and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed,
varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for continued growth of foreign exchange
earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which is under-
going a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in volume
in t:he long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less
optimistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for exports of new
industrial and agricultural products is promising.
19.       Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The need to gradually substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign contributions decline in relation to GNP.
Capacities are now strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure.
Investment in new capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency,



- 6 -
inadequate fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are inadequate in many instances. Higher levels of
economic activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in
critical professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt
still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 39 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population was
growing at a rate of about 2.2 percent per annum in the mid-1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. This continues to create great pressures
on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the employment
problem in the longer run.  In the past years the Government has made a new
commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has already
initiated such action (e.g., an intensified home visiting program under the
second IDA financed population project), it will take time for measurable
results in fertility reduction to be achieved.
21.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Currently the lower 40 percent of the rural
population receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban
areas the proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural
and 22 percent of the urban population live in absolute poverty. Although
this pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty is no worse
than in most economies at similar income levels, it is nevertheless a serious
problem, which could become more severe if no effective policy action is taken.
22.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. Specifically, action is needed
to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through organiza-
tional and procedural modifications and selective changes in salary struc-
tures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and project
preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to
upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially expand the
program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural strategies
aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration and economic opportunities; (vi)
further increase the use of prices as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii) improve pro-
fessional and technical education; (ix) increase domestic savings; and (x)
develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing dialogue
on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank; they have
also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of July 31, 1979 was estimated at about $10.6 billion. Bilat-
eral loans comprised about $6.5 billion or about 62 percent of the debt out-
standing while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit were
about 24 percent ($2.5 billion) and 8 percent ($0.8 billion) respectively, with
the remainder being held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the



- 7 -
GODE and USA, followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 4 percent of the total disbursed debt.
The estimated end-December 1979 total disbursed debt was about $11.0 billion.
Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in
1979 giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent. No reliable estimates
of military debt are available.
24.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international environ-
ment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per annum for the
coming five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are
available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity
to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms.
The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total
foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate around 20 percent during
1980-84, and to decline gradually thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
25.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-fifth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1525.5 million. 2/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of January 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Egypt faces a host of basic structural problems:  pressure of
population on resources; inadequate economic infrastructure; a large but
inefficient public sector constrained by out of date equipment, overstaffing,
weak management and a network of controls over investment, production, distri-
bution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits and shortages of
domestic resources. The Bank's response has been tailored to address these
long-term developmental issues in a very broad fashion and in close coopera-
tion with other donors. Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum
of sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other agencies,
bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating discussion and,
hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes
delivery of technical assistance not only for adequate implementation of
specific investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to devise and implement future policies and investment programs.
The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differen-
tiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities
can reasonably be expected to address these issues and implement the programs.
1/ Part II of this report is the same as Part II of the President's Report
for the Agroindustries Project, which is being submitted for consideration
by the Executive Directors.
2/  Includes the proposed Agroindustries project for $45.0 million.



- 8 -
27.        Industry, which has received the largest portion of Bank resources
and significant attention over the past five years, illustrates the nature and
scope of the Bank's intervention. Tne Government looks to industry to create
productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs, generate an "export
surplus", and stimulate growth of the economy. However, this sector is beset
by a complex seL of problems which sten largely from the rigidity of central-
ized control and lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack
of incentives for better use of productive capacity. Efforts under Bank
financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving
capacity utilization (imports loans and credits Nos: Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and
Ln. 1456) and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodi-
ties in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects). The more fundamental effort is directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end the Bank is assisting
in a "diagnostic" evaluation of the organizational set-up of the planning
apparatus to strengthen sectoral planning and project preparation and imple-
mentation capabilities with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy
and plan for the 1980's. It has also financed six subsector studies in tex-
tiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and
engineering industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a
package of policy and investment proposals, which would be embodied in future
projects. Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for study in greater
detail with a view to developing specific recommendations concerning the major
issues facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employ-
ment, wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship between the public
and private sectors. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried
out a study on small-scale industries which is laying the basis for joint
Egyptian/Bank efforts in this area. In addition, the Bank is assisting the
Government in undertaking a major study of the construction/contracting indus-
try, which is one of the most critical bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry
today, as well as in initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and
cement distribution master plan.
28.       The above sketch illustrating the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach that
it has adopted in varying degrees in the other sectors of the Egyptian economy.
It is a role that is in harmony not only with the Egyptian Government's wishes
but is welcomed by the various bilateral and multilateral donors as an appro-
priate function for the Bank as the Chairman of the Consultative Group for
Egypt. Preparation of projects for future lending follows this strategy, and
the pipeline includes projects in education, power, gas distribution, rural
and urban development, transportation, rural water supply, agriculture (includ-
ing drainage), agro-industry, development finance and industry.
29.        Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1.8 percent and 2.4 per-
cent, respectively, as of July 31, 1979. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.0 and 3.5 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.



- 9 -
30.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in 1976; the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977; the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978; the fourth, a poultry project in July,
1979; and the most recent, a fish farming project in December 1979. IFC is
discussing several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE SECTOR
Background and Structure
31.        Industry 1/ has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from 8 percent in 1946 to 15 percent in 1978.
In 1978, industry employed about 1.2 million persons, or nearly 12 percent of
the civilian labor force. Industrial exports provided 37 percent of commodity
exports and amounted to about LE 500 million (8 percent of industrial output).
As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public sector,
comprising some 200 enterprises, accounts for almost all large and medium
scale industrial enterprises. It generates some two-thirds of the value added
in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of the total
industrial employment. All basic industries are in the public sector.
32.       Textiles, food products, leather woodworking and furniture, and
engineering are the important industries owned by the private sector including
small scale manufacturing. About 4,000 private establishments with 10 or
more workers employed an estimated 388,000 in 1974.   Of these, medium-sized
firms employing 10-50 workers accounted for 90 percent of establishments and
57 percent of total employment. Artisanal establishments (with less than 10
workers) mainly produce household goods, and in 1974 contributed only 16
percent of total manufacturing value added but employed 38 percent of private
employment in this sector. About three quarters of private manufacturing
capacity is located in Greater Cairo and Alexandria.
33.       The performance of the industrial sector has improved following
the 1973 relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign exchange.
While the growth of industrial output in the public sector in 1973 and 1974
was low, it jumped to about 8-9 percent per annum during 1975-77. The private
sector has performed somewhat better than the public sector during the past
few years. Its output, which stagnated during 1972-74, increased by 15
percent annually during 1974-76 and dropped to about 8 percent in 1977 partly
because of sharply reduced exports to East European countries. The private
sector's share in total industrial investment averaged only about 4 percent
during 1969-74. Following the adoption of the "open door" policy, it increased
to about 10-12 percent during 1975-78, reflecting a favorable response of
the private sector to the Government's initiatives.
34.       Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic market
and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An industrial
1/   Manufacturing and mining excluding petroleum.



- 10 -
structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large relatively low-cost
labor force. Raw materials are limited in range but sufficient to develop
efficient industries in many subsectors. Small and medium scale industrial
private sector enterprises appear to have potential for growth because of such
factors as relatively low scale economies, relatively low capital intensity
and high income elasticities of demand for many products, strong )ackward and
forward linkages and substantial possibilities for efficient import substitu-
tion and export. Given that the public sector industry is largely capital
intensive and overstaffed, it is the private sector that will have to provide
the bulk of the employment opportunities in the sector.
35.       The Government should continue its efforts to overcome industrial
bottlenecks, such as obsolete equipment, the result of past shortage of
foreign exchange; inadequate training; lack of contact with new technology,
products, marketing and management techniques, which are to be explained by
Egypt's limited exposure during the 1960s and early 1970s .o the markets that
could offer these facilities.
36.       The Government is moving on a number of fronts to address these
problems in both the public and private sectors. Legislation designed to make
the public sector more competitive was introduced in 1978 (para. 6). Active
assistance is being provided or sought to familiarize the industrial sector
with modern production techniques and training; and the redirection of Egypt's
trade toward free currency markets and the trend in replacement of obsolete
machinery should result in improvements in product quality. The problems in
the SSI sector have been addressed in the Bank's report "Arab Republic of
Egypt: Survey of Small Scale Industry" dated December 2, 1977, and in line
with the recommendations of this report a pilot program of technical assis-
tance and vocational training was included under DIB III (para. 52).
37.       Besides trying to improve the performance of the public sector, the
Government also recognizes the potential of the private sector including SSI
for Egypt's industrial development and growth: the Five-Year Plan indicates
that private investment will account for 20 percent of total industrial
investment during 1978-82 which is twice the level attained during 1975-77.
It has yet, however, to define properly the prospective role of the SSI
sector, to strengthen the supportive administrative and policy framework
(e.g. tariff structure, export incentives), and to devise a strategy conducive
to self-sustained growth.
Recent Bank Actions Relating to Industry
38.       Through its lending operations and in the context of an ongoing
industrial policy dialogue, the Bank is trying to help Egypt increase the
efficiency and productivity of the industrial sector. The Bank's recent
loans to industry include (i) program loans to alleviate foreign exchange
constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization; (ii) assistance to
individual, large, high priority projects; (iii) attempts to address the
principal issues affecting the productivity of major subsectors; and (iv)
assistance to financial intermediaries and technical assistance agencies to
strengthen their financial and technical assistance to private sector firms.
Lending commitments, including IFC, amount to $390 million for industry from
FY73 to FY79, of which about $260 million has been disbursed as of January 31,
1980. Implementation difficulties have been experienced in Bank financed



- 11 -
projects due mainly to long start-up delays, slow construction and cumbersome
administrative procedures. In order to remedy the situation, the Government
has recently opened up civil works to international competitive bidding and
made it easier to import construction materials. With Bank assistance it is
also planning or undertaking several studies mentioned above (pa.a. 27).
39.       The Bank supports the Government's efforts to increase the effi-
ciency of the public sector as well as to improve the growth prospects of the
private sector through modernization of plant and equipment and correcting
the many problems hampering the sector's development. This support is well
integrated with the Bank's general industrial dialogue with Egypt. The Bank's
strategy in this area is directed toward helping the Government in redressing
policy biases (paras. 36-37), developing a suitable technical assistance program
to assist SSI (para. 52), and providing financial assistance through DIB and
other intermediaries to subsectors where small and medium scale firms have
potential for growth. The proposed project will provide financing through
DIB to private sector enterprises for renewal, balancing and modernization
investment and for establishing new projects as well as to a limited number
of public sector firms which have an export potential. Viability and self-
sustained growth of SSI are most likely to be attained by focussing on
industrial activities with promising growth potential and characterized by
low scale economies, catering to specialized markets, or displaying comple-
mentarity with activities undertaken by larger firms through ancillary or
sub-contracting relationships.
Financial Institutions and Industrial Finance
40.       Industrial investments in the public sector are financed primarily
from the national budget and, to a limited extent, from internally
generated funds, with some long-term financing for relatively small recon-
struction and expansion projects provided by DIB. Long-term financing for
private sector industry is provided mainly by DIB and the Misr Iran Develop-
ment Bank (MIDB), a joint-venture Bank, the only two active industrial devel-
opment banks in Egypt. Their roles are complementary in that DIB finances
small- and medium-scale enterprises, through loans in both local and foreign
currency, while MIDB promotes and finances the foreign exchange needs of
medium and large enterprises particularly joint ventures, through loans
and equity investments. Other institutions providing finance to industry
include four state owned commercial banks (National Bank, Bank Misr, Bank of
Alexandria, Banque du Caire), Cairo Barclays (one of the many joint-venture
banks) and the two international banks in Cairo - Arab African Bank and Arab
International Bank. While the State owned banks in particular might provide
substantial sums for large joint venture projects promoted by the public
sector and some financing to the private sector, commercial banking is likely
to remain the main or only interest for most banks other than MIDB and DIB.
41.       Continued bilateral and multilateral assistance is needed to supple-
ment the foreign exchange earnings of Egypt to satisfy foreign exchange
requirements of industry. Long-term local currency resource mobilization
through private savings has been hampered by low interest rates and the lack
of a capital market. Equity capital of project promoters is expected to
continue to provide most of the local cost financing for projects, with
long-term loans from DIB and short-term loans from commercial banks providing
the remainder.



- 12 -
42.        The banking system as a whole provides industrial finance for SSI
in the general framework of its short-term lending operations, without any
particular emphasis or special procedures tailored to the requirements of such
borrowers. Most Banks perceive SSI loans as having low profitability and high
risk. DIB, the most important institution providing resources to SSI, is
strengthening its capacity to reach these enterprises.
Cost of Capital in Egypt
43.        Interest rates on local currency loans are regulated by the Central
Bank of Egypt (CBE). In June 1978, and again in July 1979, the maximum
interest rates for commercial banks loans and deposits were raised, in each
instance, by one percentage point for most types of loans and deposits. The
maximum interest rate for loans to the non-Government sector is now 12 percent
and the minimum 10 percent. Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt.
The wholesale price index shows increases of 10.3 percent each in 1976 and
1977 and 8.7 percent in 1978. However, the official index is strongly biased
by controlled prices for essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs,
and does not adequately reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where
price levels tend to be significantly higher. Hence, it is difficult to
ascertain whether or not the current interest rates on local currency loans
are adequate in light of inflation. Nevertheless, stabilization policies are
currently under review by the Government, which is also considering further
adjustments to the interest rates. Interest rates on foreign currency loans
are not regulated by the Central Bank of Egypt and have generally reflected
the cost of these resources. Proceeds of the proposed loan will be on-lent
at DIB's lending rates on foreign currency loans, currently 11-12 percent,
with the sub-borrowers bearing the exchange risk between the dollar and
the Egyptian pound. A minimum rate of 11 percent is required under the
proposed loan. The compensatory deposits of around 10 percent of such loans
which DIB requires from borrowers increase the effective cost on foreign
currency loans to about 12 percent to 13.5 percent. These rates are well in
line with the current cost of long-term foreign currency funds available to
Egyptian borrowers from the international capital market (generally around 2
percent over LIBOR, which was 11.5 percent for long-term funds during the last
quarter of 1979).
Previous DFC Credits
44.       The proposed loan is the fourth DFC operation in Egypt, two previous
credits having been granted to the former term lending department of the Bank
of Alexandria (BOA), which was later converted into DIB (Cr. 412-UAR of FY73
and Cr. 576-EGT of FY76) and a loan given to DIB in FY78 (Loan 1533-EGT). The
performance under the three operations has generally been satisfactory. The
two IDA credits were fully committed in March 1976 and June 1978, and as of
January 1980 loans for $32 million have been approved by DIB under the Bank
loan which is expected to be fully committed shortly. The $72 million in
projects approved under Bank/IDA loans have induced a total investment of



- 13 -
LE 128 million and are expected to create about 8,600 jobs. 1/ DIB I is
98 percent disbursed and, as of December 31, 1979, disbursements under DIB II
and III were $24 million and $8 million. The performance of the subprojects,
considering the numerous administrative difficulties faced by promoters in
Egypt in implerntnting projects, is very satisfactory.  A Project Completion
Report for DIB-I and DIB-II is scheduled for FY81 following completion of
disbursements during the current fiscal year.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.        Bank missions visited DIB in February and May 1979 to prepare and
appraise the project. Negotiations were held in Washington from January
14 to 18, 1980. The Egyptian delegation was represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem,
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy and Mr. A.H. Kabodan, Chairman, DIB.
A separate staff appraisal report, "Loan to Development Industrial Bank for
Industrial Finance" (No. 2669-EGT) dated February 6, 1980, is being circulated
separately.
46.        The objectives of the proposed loan to DIB are essentially three:
(i) to enable DIB to continue to provide foreign exchange resources to
industrial projects; (ii) to further strengthen DIB as a development finance
institution; and (iii) to increase financial and technical assistance to SSI
in Egypt.
47.        A Bank loan of $50 million is proposed which would cover about 57
percent of DIB's foreign exchange needs for the 1980-81 period, with the
European Investment Bank, African Development Bank, IDA (through the proposed
Agroindustries project) and commercial credits providing the balance. As
under the DIB III loan, the foreign exchange risk between the Egyptian pound
and the US dollar will be borne by the sub-borrower and that between the US
dollar and currencies of disbursement by the Government (Section 2.08 (c) and
(e) of the Loan Agreement). DIB's onlending interest rate is between 11 and
12 percent and would not be less than 11 percent. Subloans may be made for up
to 15 years with grace periods of up to three and a half years. These rates
1/   The overall average cost per job created, which was $21,200, conceals
a significant disparity in the employment effect of large and small
projects (i.e. above and below LE 200,000), the capital labor ratios of
which were $26,000 and $5,000 respectively. While it is not possible to
estimate the number of jobs expected to be created through the proposed
loan since SSI projects (whose fixed assets, excluding land and buildings,
do not exceed LE 200,000) will be financed out of DIB's total term
lending, it is clear that the project will enhance DIB's employment
creating activities: the proportion of DIB's financing for SSI is
expected to increase by about 8 percent to 30 percent in 1980-81 and SSI
projects are expected to create five times more jobs per dollar invested
than the larger projects.



- 14 -
are a good approximation of the current market cost of long-term foreign
exchange in the international capital markets, implying no subsidy to sub-
borrowers. They would also provide a spread of about 3 to 4 percent on the
proceeds of the proposed loan. Such a spread is adequate to cover DIB's
administrative expenses averaging 2 percent of total assets and would also
ensure DIB a reasonable profit.
The Institution - DIB
48.       DIB, a public sector bank, was established in 1975.  It took over
the functions and part of the portfolio of the Special Services to Private
Industrial Sector Unit of the Bank of Alexandria. DIB is well known to the
Bank and its institutional aspects, policies and procedures have not changed
significantly since the Bank's previous appraisal report of February 28, 1978
(Report 1809a-EGT).
49.       The main issues DIB has faced since its creation have been to (i)
expose its Board to suitable external expertise; (ii) strengthen its manage-
ment; and (iii) recruit qualified staff. The creation in 1978 of DIB's Advi-
sory Committee, made up of seven experienced private citizens with expertise
in industry and finance, appears to have given valuable advice to DIB's Board
and strengthened management. A series of advisory and training programs have
been started to give DIB's management and staff a better grip on the methods
and objectives of their operational work, although it is too early to assess
their impact, since they have only recently started. Further strengthening is
needed, however, especially to improve DIB's appraisal and economic/sectoral
work. Since the appraisal mission for the proposed loan in May 1979, DIB
has already increased the staff of its Appraisal, Supervision and SSI Depart-
ments to satisfactory levels and plans to further strengthen its economic
staff. Advisory and training programs are expected to continue over the
commitment period of the proposed loan.
50.       DIB approved loans totalling nearly LE 50 million in 1978, includ-
ing LE 35 million in long-term loans (50 percent in foreign exchange).
DIB's portfolio is adequately diversified among tourism (23 percent), food
processing (23 percent), textiles (15 percent), minerals and engineering (12
percent) and building and construction (8 percent). Under the DIB III loan
(1533-EGT) DIB expects to commit the $10 million (25 percent of the loan)
allocated to export oriented public sector projects shortly. Under the
proposed loan, up to 20 percent could be allocated for public sector enter-
prises, provided that at least 20 percent of the output of such projects will
be exported to convertible currency countries (Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan
Agreement). The proposed financing of public sector projects under the loan,
although small in relation to this sector's needs, is justifiable on grounds
of providing marginal financing to expedite sound projects which fill impor-
tant productive linkages in the economy and to spread the use of proper
appraisal techniques to the sector.



- 15 -
51.       About 20 percent of DIB's total term lending has been benefitting
SSI projects (fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, of less than LE
200,000 in 1980 prices). DIB has now agreed that over 1980 and 1981, 30
percent of its annual term-lending will be allocated to SSI (Section 3.06(a)
of the Loan Agreement). At about the same time as the third Bank loan, DIB
obtained a loan of $8.75 million from OPEC Special Fund to be onlent to
smaller SSI of which $5.25 million were committed during 1978-79. DIB will
continue its efforts to identify and assist smaller SSI, and to this end DIB
has agreed that within the target of 30 percent lending to SSI, it will
allocate at least $10 million of its foreign currency resources 1/ in 1980 and
1981 to borrowers whose fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do not
exceed LE 100,000 in 1980 prices (Section 3.06(b) of the Loan Agreement).
52.       The previous loan to DIB also included a pilot technical assistance
scheme for SSI being implemented by agencies of the Ministry of Industry.
Under this scheme, the Engineering and Industrial Design and Development
Center (EIDDC) is to provide extension services, engineering consultancy and
management courses to SSI and the Productivity and Vocational Training Depart-
ment (PVTD) to conduct accelerated training for unskilled workers in special-
ized trades. After initial delays by the Government in making the necessary
budgetary allocations for the local cost financing, the scheme is now being
implemented. The accelerated training programs of PVTD have commenced and are
progressing well towards meeting the targets set by the scheme. While DIB has
no direct responsibility for the program, it will follow its progress and help
the Bank to closely monitor the implementation of the scheme.
53.       DIB's capability to reach more SSI has been strengthened over the
past year by the opening of a new branch in Tanta in Lower Egypt, catering
primarily to SSI clientele and the establishment of a separate SSI Department
at Headquarters which will process all small loans not exceeding $250,000.
The department will also provide diagnostic and extension services, including
advice on financial and technical matters related to SSI. The staff of the
department has been increased recently and DIB is taking the necessary steps
to recruit an SSI advisor.
54.       DIB also finances the requirements of small SSI clients for equip-
ment on a "hire-purchase" basis. In 1978, DIB made 176 such operations for
LE 1.2 million. Bank financing to cover the estimated foreign exchange cost
of such equipment would be included under the proposed loan.
55.       Operations Outside Cairo/Alexandria:  DIB's operations are heavily
concentrated in Cairo/Alexandria where 80 percent of Egypt's industrial
capacity is located. In addition to the recently opened Tanta Office, DIB's
efforts to reach clients in other regions include more frequent missions by
1/   Including about $3.5 million still available under the OPEC Special
Fund loan as of January 1, 1980.



- 16 -
staff to be facilitated by mobile vans to be acquired shortly. DIB has
acquired a site in the new city of Tenth of Ramadan (an enclave outside Cairo)
and intends to establish a branch when infrastructure facilities in the city
are completed. DIB also plans to further strengthen the Tanta Office and
increase its operations in 1980/81 and to open another branch in Upper Egypt
during late l191/early 1982.
56.       Equity Investments:  DIB has not made significant equity investments
since its establishment in 1976. However, with the greater emphasis on the
role of the private sector, DIB expects to increase its activities as a pro-
moter of new ventures and to approve about LE 3 million in equity investments
by 1982. The size and exposure limitations on DIB's invesments as contained
in its policy statement are considered sufficient to ensure that DIB's equity
investments will benefit an adequate number of projects.
57.       Free Limit:  Inflation and DIB's satisfactory performance justify
increasing the free limit under the loan from $400,000 to $650,000. DIB would
continue to calculate economic rates of return (ERR) for all projects submitted
for bank financing above the free limit. Under DIB III most projects above the
free limit have had ERR between 20 and 30 percent. It is expected that half
the value of the proposed loan would be used for projects for which ERR would
be calculated. DIB would also calculate ERR for all projects whose total cost
exceeds LE 800,000. A minimum ERR of 12 percent would be required for Bank
financing of these projects (Sections 2.02(c), 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
DIB's Financial Performance, Resource Position and Needs
58.       DIB has achieved a satisfactory level of profitability in the first
few years of its operations: operating profits (before taxes and provisions)
increased 69 percent from LE 1.3 million in 1977 to LE 2.2 million in 1978 and
total assets have increased from LE 16.6 million in 1976 to LE 52.3 million by
March 1979 in line with Bank expectations at the time of the third loan.
DIB's operating profits (i.e. before provisions for losses and taxes) should
increase from LE 2.7 million in 1979 to LE 6.6 million by 1982 while total
assets are forecast to increase from LE 52 million in March 1979 to LE 191
million by December 1982. DIB's total debt/equity ratio was 3.8:1 in March
1979; it is well within the existing limit of 6:1 which is not expected to be
exceeded until sometime in 1981. In recognition of satisfactory developments
in DIB's financial performance and position and to enable DIB to increase its
capacity to borrow, the Bank has agreed to increase this to 7:1 (Section 4.06
of the Loan Agreement).   DIB's provisions for doubtful debt are adequate, and
in general the portfolio is sound.
59.       DIB's total foreign currency loan approvals for the period May 1979
to December 1981 are expected to be US$125 million; this is well supported by
DIB's current pipeline of projects. Local currency approvals in 1979 are
expected to be about the same level as in 1978 (LE 17.8 million) and increase
by about 10 percent per year thereafter, to reach LE 21.5 million by 1981.
60.       As of May 1, 1979, foreign currency resources available to DIB for
fresh approvals amounted to $38 million including $24 million from the third



- 17 -
Bank loan. DIB expects to have fully committed the balance of the third Bank
loan by early 1980. The only other certain foreign resources which DIB
expects in the near future are a loan of $18.0 million from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) in the first half of 1980 and a $6-8 million from the
African Development Bank (ADB) towards the end of 1980. There would thus be a
resource gap of about $61-63 million for the period.
61.       DIB intends to contract about $5 million in commercial credits from
foreign commercial banks by 1981, and finance $6-8 million of its approvals
from part of a proposed IDA credit for Agro-Industries, which is scheduled for
Board presentation in March 1980. On the above basis, a Bank loan of $50.0
million appears justified. Bank/IDA funds as a percentage of DIB's outstand-
ing foreign debt should decrease from 94 percent in 1978 to about 54 percent
by 1982.
62.       DIB has sufficient resources essentially through lines of credit
from the Central Bank to cover local currency requirements through 1981, and
the Government has confirmed that CBE would extend its commitment to assist in
mobilizing or providing resources for a further five year period (Section 2.02
of the Guarantee Agreement). DIB also intends to begin its efforts, possibly
in 1981/82, to mobilize local funds from the bond market or borrowing from
financial institutions in Egypt.
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       DIB ensures that procurement for all projects follow international
shopping procedures which conform to Bank/IDA requirements for DFC projects.
DIB's disbursement procedures are satisfactory and well monitored.  Disburse-
ments under the proposed loan are estimated as follows:
US$ Million
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84  FY85
Annual                     -     4.2   13.0   17.8   13.2   1.8
Cumulative                 -     4.2   17.2   35.0   48.2  50.0
Amortization of the Bank loan would conform with the aggregate of the amortiza-
tion of the individual sub-loans which will not exceed 15 years.  The final
date for submission of sub-projects is proposed to be June 30, 1982 and
the closing date December 31, 1984.
Project Justification and Risk
64.       The private industrial sector in Egypt until recently had received
inadequate attention. The needs of the sector for replacement and moderniza-
tion of equipment are widespread and the scope for economic development and
expansion are substantial. Recent government policies supporting investment
by the private sector in industries, the increase in approvals by the Government
of industrial projects and a generally more favorable investment environment
have resulted in a considerable improvement in DIB's business prospects. DIB,
being virtually the only source of term-financing for small and medium scale
enterprises in Egypt, has a critical role to play in the current environment



- 18 -
in the preparation and implementation of sound industrial projects. It will
also continue to play a small but significant role in financing medium scale
projects in the public sector which have an export potential. DIB would
have to demonstrate a minimum ERR of 12 percent for all projects above the
free limit and for those below the free limit whose total investment cost
exceeds LE 800,000. The project's emphasis on assistance to SSI %ould have
major social and economic benefits, both in terms of employment and output.
SSI can benefit greatly from the technical and managerial assistance as well
as from the increased institutional financing which DIB, through its upgraded
ability to deal with SSI, can make available.  Thus, Bank assistance through a
fourth loan is both justified and timely.
65.       Through the proposed fourth loan, the Bank would also continue its
institution building efforts towards the objective of making DIB fully respon-
sive to the needs of the private industrial sector. These efforts commenced
in 1973 under the first IDA credit to BOA and continued th^'ough the Bank's
subsequent assistance in setting up DIB and developing appropriate procedures
and criteria for project appraisal and supervision, staff recruitment and
training programs. DIB, through the years of its association with the Bank,
has grown steadily in confidence and competence. Under the fourth loan, it
will strengthen its economic appraisal of investment projects, and continue
to reach out to new customers outside the Cairo/Alexandria area, as well as
begin to take the first steps to mobilize on its own strength new domestic and
international sources of financing in order to further broaden its resource
base.
66.       The risks associated with the project are related to the need to
develop rapidly enough a strong institutional management and DIB's impact on
the SSI subsector. These appear to be manageable. Bank loans as well as
USAID financing have focussed on technical assistance through advisors and
training, and top management in DIB is fully convinced of the need for a
program of advice and training. There may also be delays in the measures
which DIB intends to take to increase its capabilities to provide more tech-
nical assistance to SSI, e.g. the recruitment of an experienced SSI advisor
and the strengthening of DIB's newly established SSI Department. The Bank
intends to monitor these aspects of the project closely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Development Industrial Bank
and the Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.



- 19 -
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 20, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-  20-
L - SOCIAL INDICATOtS DATA SHCCT
RIVIRZNOCI GROUPS (ADlUSTfu AVERAGES
LA   PA (TbOUSAND SI. H.)                       1                          _ OSY RCc ESTI IMATE) La
'%AL           1001 4                                                  SAM         SAXC  MNUT HICHUI
AGICULTURAL      21.9                                mOYT UCEHT    CGOGRAPHIC   rNcflH        INCOWE
190  a      197O / ESTMATt Lb       AEG LOW Le  GROUP Ld   3CrU1 L
pER m    PITA (t1Sf)                10.0        140.0    310.0           1436.3      182.9       432.3
nCIt   CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAKS Of COAL SQUIVALlt?)    296.0       273.0    405.0            616.7     6u.9        231.
7DPVTlAYI MED VITAL STATISTICS
tDtAL PTlPULATIOY, HID-YEA
OEZLLIOIES)                      23.8        33.3      39.2
m1U  POPJULATION (PERQCET o0 TOL) 31.0         42.1      44.6            43.6       13.0        24.2
tNILAtIOl DEISITY
SQ. ax4.                        24.0        33.0      39.0            23.2       46.3        42.7
m   SQ. IN. ACRICULTUM  LARID   982.0      1125.0   1311.0            112.4      254.1        93.0
YOFLATION ACG $YRUCTORS (PECt2  )
0-14 Us.                         aLo         42.1      40.7           46.0        43.6        44.9
13.44 US.                         34.0        54.7      35.9            50.6       53.3       32.3
65 US. AND AWOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.4             3.3        2.9         3.0
JOPUATI1t CR0OWrl RATE (PERCtET)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.6       2.2             2.9        2.4         2.7
tits"                             6.0         3.6       3.6             3.0        4.0        6.6
C0JtS BIRTH RATE (PFi TE1SAND)    44.5         42.1      37.2            43.0       ".3         42.2
CQUXD DEATH RATE (PEk THOUSAND)    20.7        17.0      14.0            13.7       19.7        12.4
MOSS 3EPItODUCTION tATE             2.8         3.0       3.0             3.4        2.9         3.2
fAMILY LTA)IEG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOOSAIEDS)     ..       206.0    164.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HAuID WHm)    ..            9.0      21.1            14.7       14.6        14.2
JOOD AY_UITION
fDIDC OC FOOD PRODUCTIWM
EA CAITA (1970.100)              93.5       100.0    100.0            107.1       96.4       104.3
ME CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOUItS (PERCENiT 0f
IIU m          9ITS)           93.0       106.0    113.0             ".2        92.3        99.5
POYstYS (GRAMS PER DAY)         46.0        46.0      70.7            63.4       50.0        56.6
O SICI ANIIAL AIM PLULSC       17.0 t      16.0      16.0            16.4        3.9        17.5
11LnD (ArS 1-4) IADLlTY rAT        39.3          ..        ..              ..         ..         7.
Lift CUECTAMCY Ar slitr  (YrEAS)    44.9       49.9      52.4            53.7       43.6       13.3
UvAHI mOlTALITY RATt (PER
UIS0UAD)                          109.0       116.0    100.0             ".7       102.7        82.5
AU$5 To SA  SEATER (PttigT OF
SIOPuLIt)
;OSAL                               .          ..      74.0            39.1       26.4        31.1
903Am                              ..          *-      *7.7            83.9       43.3        6.3
ROL                                *.          .         .7            38.0       14.1        18.2
ACCESS to ECRETA DISPOSAL (PERCT
WF FOPMLATICIE)
-  TAL                              ..          ..        ..            64.3       16.1        37.5
l0AMU                              ..          .9 ..                    4.3       63.9        69.3
~AL                                ..          ..        ..            27.7        3.4        25.6
7POSLATIO  FEP PEEYSICA          2500.0      1910.0    I820.0 Lj       4271.6    13432.7      9359.2
Io9LATIOS  ru MURSING P11tS0     2730.0 /    1640.0 /j 1520.0 Lj       2077.4    6983.3       2762.3
POruTica rEa aOSPIT&L eta
RYAL                            300.0       4 460.0    460.0          380.2     117.6        786.3
A                                                 ..  290.0    250.0  310.0      183.3       278.4
zRz                                ..      2110.0   2090.0               ..    1348.        1336.4
&MsSIous PtR KOSPtTAL YDI            ..          .-        *-            22.0       19.3        19.2
30011110
_ VERG lIAR 01 ItW5tJDLD 
toTA.                             5.           ..                       3.'4       34.
901Am                             4.0          .        3.0              ..        4.6
-tMWt  V3ESER Of PERSONS PER I00
OTYAL                                                   1.8
ACCEM To ELECMcCITrY (PnclaU
W DELLINGS)
ROYAL                            38.0                  43.7            40.3       23.9        26.3
gas"Am                             ..          ..      71.0                    *.             1.
WnAsL..                                        .       19.6            12.          ..        103



- 21-                                            __ A
tABLE IA
4_CT0 - StlCIA. INtICATORS DATA SNP"T
ARFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTPD AVPRArtS
M- IOST RECNT tSTtNATP)
"RE         SAtU!    NEXT HECHER
POST REZCENT    CEOGRAPNIC   INCOME        INCOME
190         1970 /1 ESTIMATE /S       REGION /e   GROUP /f    GRtW04
DuCATteN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
fRINARY:    TOTAL                 ".0          69.0      72.0             30.S       62.9        75.8
IAuLE                52.0        53.0       55.0            61.8        45.9        67.9
StWCNARY:  TOTAL                  16.0         33.0      40.0             23.6       14.4        17.7
PThALE                9.0        31.0       25.0            16.2         6.6        12.9
VDCATtONAL (PERCENT Of SENDARtY) 22.0          19.0      16.O              6.7        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHtR tATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0         36.0      40.0             31.5       36.5         34.3
SE)IQARY                          16.0         23.0      29.0             22.3       19.6         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       20.0           .-      40.0             50.1       36.7         63.7
tONSUMPTION
PASSENiCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          4.0       6.0             14.5        3.1          7.2
ROW RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
lOPULATION                        38.0        132.0     140.0            125.6       31.1         71.1
TV EtCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9         16.0      17.0             34.3        2.8         14.1
-KVSPAPEI ("DAULY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TIRDUSAND POPULATION                   .         22.0        *-             17.6        6.0         16.3
CIEMDA ANhUAL ATT4NDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0        ..              1.6         1.4         1.6
UPLOTENT
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7800.0       8 6300.0 L  9600.0              .
PENALZ (PERCENT)                   7.3          7.2       7.6              9.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.0  j      53.0 /    43.9             42.0       60.7         54.1
DWSTRY (PERCENT)                  12.2        1U.8         *.               *-         *-
PARTICIPATION LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               26.9         28.0      28.0             26.9       39.6         37.8
=ALE                                53.2         51.5      51.3             46.6        33.3        50.3
PniLg                                4.2          4.1       4.3              5.3       19.6         20.9
ZO=MaC DEPEODENCY RATIO                1.8          1.6       1.8              1.9         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
.-PECLNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
6CEZVED ST
I31032T 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS   19.2J/         ..      21.0 h                      20.3         19.5
30C2S  20 PERCENT OF HOUSEIHOLDS  48.4 /         .0                                  4 .5.1       U.9
lUEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /1          -       5.2                         3 ..7        5.9
LOESt 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.1  j         .       26.0               ..       16.6         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROJPS
RSTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INME
LXII. (USS PER CAPITA)
=103.3h..                                        ..     154.0               ..       U.5         155.9
KItAL                               ..           ..     112.0            142.0        71.9        97.9
93TDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY I?Cme
LML (USS PER CAPITA)
R                                   ..           ..     122.0.           236.1       100.6       143.7
303.                                *.      -   ..       60.0            144.7        42.0        *7.3
3S3IMATED POPULATION BEIEW POVERTy
11CO t LEVEL (PERCENT)                      4*
1*UA                                *.           ..      22.0             21.5       4".0         22.9
LA-    .3. 0.0                                                            37.4       48.0         36.7
Not avatlable
UEt 8pPItcabla.
4A    The adjusted group avera4ge for each tedic-tor aro Populttoo-velShted &*o*mtric mass. excluding the estee_
e1uto. of tho indicator and the most populated co..try In sc, group.  Comtag  of countre  amg the
ladleatore depends an avaiLabilicy of date and La not unifoam.asu"ah
Q      Sla       othertes noted, data for 1960 reter to any roar btvaven 1959 sad 1961g for  1970. between 1969
sad 1971S and for Most Recent E-tinatce, between 1973 *nd 1977.
North Africa * Middle  asEt;   /d   Low  tncom   ($280 or los per capita. 1976)   is  Lower  tddle
tnese  ($281-550 per captte, 1976);   /f   195&-55;  L        1960-621  /h   [962;   L-  Registrord, not all
ps  tlcing in the country;  /1  Rolate   to persona   lt years and over .Scluding nosed population;
I Ulat.  to 12-64 years of age. 19661  a    1964-6;  Jo  rural only.
pt r  1976



-  22      -                                                        ATt 
tIPItTIONS 0f SCICAl. I51UCATIIRS                                                    e.3fS
MOLE   Th. *djantod gcaup *verasro for eacks indicsetr areppltna.ihe   gen.trtc  --a...  eld,  the ..treom  vlat....o  rhw  1ndi..t., and the neat
populated   -Cunty In eaCh groP.  r--v.r   at Cautri..  -.00    the tndtgstar. deplnde on av-lIohlity of data .nd 1. Mlt u                     Duer t. n  tack If da.t.,
geoop 4--n-e f.r CapItal Surplu- Oil  apart.re and  yndicator- oF o              to wa.r. and           dtraa  iponat. beteleg. Inome,a dlacrLb.tiee and povety  rer
simple paeuL...ico-ualhtad geoactelt Mon. without tho eacluaLof of ..groe.   lo.
LAM16 AREA (theu....   eq. ha)                                                           Potlejrhnis1h-totel ,urbLa, tad ruraIl - Populalting (total,
To-tal - Total .rface ..r. cuopriotag land area and inland wat.r,                        urban, and coa)divided by their ne-p-ti.. n,,ref hospittl bed,
AetcL-ur   - Moat can...t otleana at aericwlturl ara. wUad temporarily                    enoll4bla fn Public and prl-at.  e...r-  and sptcialbad hoapIt.L andi-
or p.....n ntly Eor crepe. pastures. aarkot and kitchen gardens or to                   kbavlitatle    ene.. -    Il ospitals  g retil.Oot  p- ... Etl-  taild by
1L* follow,,                                                                            at lest 000 physiciaa.  Et.tbli.h .. ta p...onLde  p,t.clp.LLy c-,cdi.l
gore ago sot LIncuded,  Rural bo-lcola. h-.   r. IncLud  health ,ed ardl-
GOP PEAR 1'.A TtLSoU  - Gill per capIta eatloao   at Currentt acaht prota*.                ca   an  ---r.    P. net ..r.notLy  -tffd by a phy.11l.. (but by a ar   ;u .-
saleulatad by m.. c-svnrala  method as World aaek AtLI.  (1975-77  soalsl              a.tatnt,  ac. adwifa. see.) which Offer tn-ptt.ant accoaomdatio  and
1960. 1970, and 1977 da.C.                                                              provide a hl.ted r-nn of erdLco1 f.cllltla..
Amtsaton  Pee   .Reto  bed. - Total nmbner ofaatsaa  oa  Licka.Nusa
gMud  C04SLMyPIloNFi E  rAPITA - Aaaa-l taeaoptloe of commercial wnoray                    free.  ea.pLtals ~_dI1ded by ch.  usao  of bads..
(coal and lig.lta. patrolaus. sa.tora1 gas and hydra-. nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) In kblugraaa af caal equlvaloet per capita.                   MbUSING
*eamma alaa of bo...abold (poe.0na ear b .... old) - total, urb..an, d',rural-
POFOIATION A.1S VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A        Iaaaod conalata of a froup of LndLciduala who  _hr  hom    "% rC "'
Total eoeul.lsti-. .,Ld-1e   (.eLIu...   AS of July 1 lif sot ovaltable.                  and theIr  etIs ... ls.  A heard., r  le dg., may or  ay set h. icmi,,odd Ln
aesaoge at cw  and-poo~r ntet    1960  1.970. and 19,7 data.                            the houaahold for atatistical purponac.  S Ctat.tacal definitions af hb.u...
Utboa Ooeulato  t             Ecato  totl)    Ratio of  rba  to total P.pla               hldvay
Itoo. dii brent definitionso t uchaa areas may ast fact cespa'abIlity                Avarga umber of persona  rc reea - to tal,  rban, and- rural  - AV..Raea Iu--
at data taos* couctrla..                                          her~~~~~~~~b  of paoesa. Per ren  Inal. ucue. ted rural occupied tono.stLoe.
EoawL,to   an rdwellIng.. r-apactkyaly.  Dwellings enCded  non-para.nat *trC_turna and
Paeoo  ho.    iil-year population par aquare kiLesatar (100 bactarag)                    uotccpLad p.rts.
of tt ae.ACctass to elect lotity (parcent of d-vIlluean) - total. urban. and rural -
Per mg. ke. asciutltur. land - Coepetad to abova for aarlcultural lsead                  Ceavaettoaal d.ellings with olactrjolty is liteig qua rta.a as p-rcatag.
only.                                                                                   of tOtWl  urban. aed ruoral d-aliian reapoclvaly.
Poqulatten age ot-uturn (enre-n)   Cbildrom (0-14 years), waarking-age
(Li-64 years). and reticad (65 y.ara andi near) me percantagee of 01d'             EDVCATtOII
yaor populatIon.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~       ~~~~Adjused .nralleent canto.  
Poanaatlonaru.t  rota(earcnt) -total, and urban - Compeund annua              Printe, aEbeol - tet...  te d fentla - Total and f-1al  anrollsact of al age.
grihrT.0  ctotl ted urban  ld-yaar populations far 1950-60.                     ag the  P pLeary local so_p.rrctcaqa. Of reap.cti-aly prinacy schbol-age
196I0-7  andI970-75                                                                     Populations; ner.Irly lnulud.a chidr.. tied b-1l year. but adjuatad for
crude bith cute (par Ch...Cad) - Anaua  lire births  eR- thowasd of                       diEffrent Iaegth.ato prImary  deducaion; for c..uotri.. with unoca   du-
mid-year popul"ato; ten-y.ar aritheatic averge.  ndIng 1. 1960 and                      "catIn onroltea..t may aoa 100 peccan.t alcsamoem  pupila ace beles Or
1970 and floe-yar a..aCags addini In 1975 for seat recent *atiats.                     ahowe the official school1ate.
Cr%de det&t  rate (par ch..suod) - Annual deaths por thousand of old-                   Seodary etchol - totl, ted f.ntlo - Computed se above; secondary aduca-
year population; ta.-Ya...  rit. i  avrg.eding in 1960 and 1970                         tI  cr:ure  atel-ta  fourpas of approved primary lnstructi.on; pro-
adflea-year       S.aat  ..di.g in 1975 for -sot re.can  astitat.                    viae*maa   oct           i. o.r tatchar training inotru-ti.ne for pupil.
Crena r,reducron ra  A-Av .ge nrbar ef daughtare a wao.a will bear                 aetlly of 12 t.n 17 yea. of age; cerra..pond...ca. coraoa tar  ea ..rally
in bar nora   -op-oductlv  period if ahe eap.rlaecea  preent aga-                       asetiedd.
apeclfLc factitlity r.ate; uoually f1va-ye.r a.azages ening in 1960.                 Voaisla I...ten  (earc...t of .ao-dorr) - Vocationat  .setlet.L... in-
197 0. Rod I95                                                                          cdad   technical  ldoattlal  or  1heruprogeama which operate ind.p.ndantly
Vlly aareiln  - accptera. .. anua  (th..eand.) - AmsuaI anbarat           r ft  dpreecao  needry  ntiuloo
ateapItos of hirth-centra1 deuo-  andar auspices of national faily                  Pupil-tatchar ratio - prfay. urd -u-d-c, -Total atudents anrolled in
plai   gre ae,                                                                    primary and ....ondary 1a-1  di,yiued hy numears of tatch.ra  Is th.a crre-
earrlad  oanan of'thild-baaring  ga(1.-44 year.) who   tBirt,h-oEtr.1               Adultlitracy rata (parcent) - LIterate adults (abla ta read and wrlta) 
devices to all macclad  acces ina       agea.5  group.                                  a Percentage Of total adult population aged 15 y.tra and .var.
MMO A~S i6tThRMOi                                                                     CIOSVIPTION
Zada  ef aud  codutlonpar capita (1970-1005 -  ad"a a-ba  of pear               Pateantnec  ars(va  thu-ndnnuaton              Pa.asangr care  esmpries manor coar
capia a.Ouaprducion of all toed CemaItt;.!                                        atlng boaha; eight par  Ea; ...ud.a ambulance., h.arsea and eilit.cy
Per Capita S.ei e,f caorn   (ecac-t ot cecule-sentsl - Computed fEe*                    nahlclee.
sergy equivolont of nset feed sopplian &avalabla in country per capita             Radio racelvarx (,er thou.. ad yepulutten) - All typa. of racaivars fec radio
par day.  A,abIIbla .applle  cepio  deaaetc prodctIo..,L.t Impr...a                   br-adcnto to g ...c-1 public par th-..sao  of popolation; ...tludaa on.ic.naed
aiports. and chna.S.  in otecb.  N.teupla  ea.ada animal faod,..eeda.                 reca.lvara in conotcia. and to year. when ragi.tratlno of radio  acto eta in
qesatlctle  ...ed in fond peaa         and Los."e In distributloa.  ge-              affect; data far recant year. nay aot ha cOspaaibla ainc   -at countri.a
9oi.inea ueer  aatiaatad by FAO b.sed on  hybyiolegical naeed  for ear-              aboliabad licensing.
MIt activity and health consldrciac  co-irsosseta1 temperatura. body                TV rccivarn (per the..atydpeual)- TV receiver. Eor breadtaet to   . Smrt
might.. Age and .ee distributionse of popuattoa. sad aIll-ins 10 Per-                   publim  per tho...and popul.tion; ... lud.  aelicane-  TV ..a.ai-er  in  en
canrt for wasta at hoo..ehold la-e,                                                      tries aod La yates who. clerio of TV -ato w.. Ia efface.
evCapit.  zurly of oroltei leeten Pat law) - Proetin content af peraner    cirowlatton (2ar th.uaand  splto)- Sbes-  the a-Arag  ciroula-
capita sat auppy oftod par dty.  let supply of food Ia defined ae                       ia  of udily  .enaca1 in.Ereat capApe.r  daf load an a peciedl.al publi-
above.  gaquirsanast  for all Euntriasesatablished by USDA provIde for                  ration devoted primarily te recording general newa,  It isa.. ieadacad to
a  aiss.i  allowance ef 60 groats ofttal. pratela per day and 20 gram.                 he 'dily'a If it appears at least faur tinsa a wa.k.
ofeama  and Pulse proteIn,  fwhi,10 armse  h-Iod be arnial pretain.               Ciaan  annal. attandtne oar evtott  ear Year - Based on the number of tickat
Theme  tgoodards are lonnar than thooa of 75 gras  af tetAl proteIn and                 "Id durings tbh  year. locludi.g tdolioaoa  to dclve-in clan. ted webila
23 gress of aaina  protaln as an averag  far the  "Cari. Pr-P-na  by                    -mits.
VA40 1. Cho Third liorld Feed Survey.
Par capita ora'ale eupel   Ironanlal 4n puls. - Proteins aeply of faad                Deu
dala   fo   na.l   n   'pulta1  ae   par day.                                   To tal labororc   (cho....nds) - rooneetely active perassm. IncludIn$  rsad
Cild fgne 1-) nornlitv rc(P.e, thuceand) - AnnuaL deatha per thaet-              farce  adunemployed but  nludlng hnoLves., atudants  setc.  Daflul-
md La age group 1-4 yta  to colldren in this age group.                                                     ..esI....e. outre  ore not coeparble.
Panaa feccoti tPom la lbor fore. aa p.re.ntaae of total labor fere...
Aaiciulture (P.  -Cn)    LaIbor force tn farming, ler-otry.h.ntieg and fisbing
LIfoepctasc-Y at birth (y..rs) - Average    'onbr of Peace of life                         at porccastaseat tot al labor focus.
rlaLa L at bIrth; utully tre-yea  avvrt5e  -mding Ia 1960. 1970.                    Inedustry (Par._,) - Labor force .is    L..n. co.. eatrotan, manufact.ring and
Sefeac actalttr race (pra  thoweand) - Anual .4.th. ot Iamtast  ande                   Participation raco inrog      oa.  u,adfml   Total.  ala., and
Acace tosalew.na  Icocan  ofrnlto)-tCoal.  lrban  enTrrl".on  are ILiS   adi onad partitp tiua  rare. rali-ctlne .on-san
NuberoC pot.pIe (tl,uban. asd  rura) wIth                              Coaae     acs  tastructura of the p-nat.od  oni, eina trend.
tot  eater,epply (-Incija. treated .urfaca wutera or wntraat.d but                  Economic d",ndnncn_ratio - RAtIo of populatIon cedar 15 sad 65 and ... c to
a"  nelaa    ae   uha    e  io   rtce    oaee.area.                                     the laboc tor.e  is..,. group at 15-h. years.
and atcary wallal as p-eccatufa  or their crapeatwe. p.opulations.
tg an  rh.n arat a fabli. fouEttut  ar et.np.nct  catd ntmc                         uarOIRSTfT
ta200 eaters from    hews. may b. coesidarad ta bolus aIthLe CatPaoecace onrebyte Inrome (both La cash and biatd) recaeied by richoat 
analo .saa4  a  ta  ha     I   rua  or asa r.."  ea1l  aocee. would                  peCa. nihoat 20 percent. poIosa  20 porcant. NWd poreat 411 peccant
impilytathhuatforaeesf the  -ouc 4o  do  ca hav  to                                     ot hoseobLd..
avowd a dbap,opercwosagear a-t. the day is facchtn5 the tIipel
eater  -ari.                                                                        POYPI2TY TASCET C.9OPt
Auess to                                        a   s       tcl  urban. end            fatimatod ab..l.c.   y.oetv Incese to'y   (USjLPf.ta  itnt)-uraan  rur'al-
flat- ubar     pao ta  ttl. u-ba..  aol rural) .arod by OrsaAbsolate ponararI ete  Ianul La that inu Le... evL ha.L. aboba  lah
dtopoal aap.ccetagtaoe  thaic crsotc    uutL:.        .    eena                   Re teal  aeuate dint pi.. ee-antit1 osn-fad                              L.arrsca1  nO
dI epes"  mae IacLLJ. the -ailts,tts a.J dI.p ..L.sutt  or without                      effordabla.
erteuo   fpt p  naanatttrnoiL:::,ee                                              M&astin. P...r-  isa.I gee.L  a ti,a  s 15.05.-iol l.a. tbaa  -.t-thltt
Ion  .r  bpaiias-NPapultias di.ldad hob oba  of prectLinsa                   per Capita p.ar....II- ncseOfth.b  oUctro.
py.ai.iilo quit 9  led1~   irce a aail.&ia  asboo  at ..Lo..r.ity ln L_.I.                    .poIninbeo             o. It~ Lnc.s   ne.knt.t..   cesad!rk 
fr~aLsL..j.~nr.in5car... -r.pulosian united4 hp numebr of                         Pecceas at p.npul.t i.n (urban ted4 rurL) wooealiber  ahbouLuta P"o o
practicin amal as .  toal. gtdaamr.ee, pca.cial uiureme, ead                            0re4ative poear              L.cnrI  tr-eate.
geeset. end UlanaI Data DitetaIo
bemaAotteete and P-aJecti.aa  Pop.-etmt



- 23 -
ANN!:X I
Pogo 4 of 5
CCONOMEC INDlCATOrPS
CNP PER CAPITA (1978)-US$400                                          MID-1978 POPULATION - 38.7 Million
(World Batik Atlas Mcthodology)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT TN 1978                                        ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTII (%. Constant Prtces)
US$ Mln.       %                    1961-66 I/       1967-74 I/       1975-78 2/
CINP at Market Prices             13,600       100.0                     5.4              3.6             13.3
Cross Domestic Investment          3.590        26.4                    10.7              5.4             24.9
Current Account Balanca           -1,760        12.9
Export of Goods. NFS               3,530        26.0                     4.3              6.2              7.8
Import of Goods, NFS              6,490        47.7                      8.8              9.2              7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                 Labor Force  /             V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln        _7.min.                                    u7 Us $ 
Agriculture                        3,350        28.7              4.135   41.1                810        15.7
Industry 4/                        3,460        29.6              1.902   18.9               1820        35.4
Distributive Sector                2,340        20.0              1.560   13.5               1500        29.1
Services                           2,530        21.7              2.472   24.5               1020        19.8
Total/Average             11680/2920      100.0              10.069  100.0               1160       100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE
General Covernment 5/
US$ Mln.           % of GNP
1978         1974  '     1978
Current Receipts                   5,310           33.9         39.1
Current Expenditure                4,640           34.0         34.2
Current Surplus/Deficit              670           -0.1          4.9
Capital Expenditures               3,310           13.8         24.3
External Financing (net)           1,140            3.3          8.4
MNEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1973         1974        1975         1976         1977        1978
(Hillton L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    1207         1515        1883         2417         3185        4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector            1852         2338         3527         4123        4775         6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector            102          149          230          251         434          570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quiasi Money as % of CDP       31.7        36.1         38.5         38.5        43.4         47.5
Wholesale Price Index (t973 - tOO)   100.0          112.4        119.1        131.4        145.0       157.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                    10.4         12.4         6.0         10.3         10.3         8.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector             9.6         26.2         50.9         16.9        15.8         26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector           10.9         46.1         54.4          9.1        72.9         31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of US$1.496 - I Lh.
11 At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/ At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/  Total lahor force:  inemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
4/ Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
51  Local Covernment comprLses a snmll part of Cenxeral Government.
not applicable



- 24 -
ANNEX T
Page 5 of 5
PALANCE OF PAYMENTS                  -                                           qERQIANDISE ETXPORTS (AVERACE 1975-78)
1975       1976       1977       1978                                       US$ MIn   7.
(US$ million) 
Cotton                       354       19.8
EZports of Goods. NFS           2,194       2,759      3,531     3,530           Yarn and Textiles            364       20.4
Imports of Goods. NPS          -4,931      -4,910    -5,486    -6,490            Petroleum                    442       24.7
Other Agriculture            224       12.5
Imports of Foreign               -140        -240      -330       -290          All other commodities         405       22.6
0il Comnpanies
Total               1.789      100.0
Workers' Remittan'es              366         755        894     1,760
Other Factor Services (Net)    -104          -202       -205      -270
Net Factor Services             -26           553        689    iLV
EXTERNAL DT3T (MLT). DECEMBER 31. 1978
Ralanre on Current Account   -2,615        -1,838    -1,590    -1,760
Amort'zatton                     -600        -734       -812      -900                                             us$ -   -  .
To-al Deficit                  -3,215     -2,572    -2>402    -2,660             Public debt, incl. guaranteed  9,9701/
Repayments on public debt           900
Direct Foreign Tnvestment         140         300        434       440           Interest on public debt             390
Grants                          1,076         792        445       345
MLT Borroving                   2,509       1,622     3,027      2,585
3,725      2,714      3.906      3,370          DE3T SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 2/  23.7%
Orher Capital 'Net)              -152         236      -961       -495
Residual                         -420       -333       -348       -145
rncresse in Reserves 1+)          -62         45        195         71
Gross Reserves lend year)          294        339        534        605
Fuel and Rclated Materials
imports
of .hich. Petroleum         -477        -385       -250      -200
tyports
of shith: Petroleum          164         268        600       730
$ $10,590 million as of July 31, 1979.
/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services,
February 4, 1980



-  '25    -                                       ANNEX II
TIHE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                   Page 1 of a
A. STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)?
Aount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Numbers            PY        Borrower        Purpose                                Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5      --          --
Cr 181-UAR           70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                     -      26.0           2.1
Cr 284-UVA           72          ARE           Railways I                              --    30.0            1.0
Cr 393-UAR           73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                    -      36.0          4.6
Cr 412-UAR           73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank  /          --    15.0           0.3
Cr 423-UAR           74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           --    18.5            3.5
Cr 437-UMA           74          ARE           Population                              -       5.0           0.2
Cr 484-UAR           74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                       --    20.0           0.6
Cr 524-IGT           75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          --    35.0           0.3
Ln 1062-ECT          75          ARE           Ag/Ind Importe                         35.0      -           1.2
In 1064-EGT          75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0      -          27.5
Ln 1085-EGT          75          ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0      -           4.3
Ln 1098-EGT          75          ER            Railways II                            37.0      -          10.7
Cr 548-EGT           75          ARE           Telecommunications                      -      30.0          3.7
Cr 576-EGT           76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    -        25.0           0.5
Lu 1239-EGT          76          APA           Alexandria Port                        45.0      -          33.8
Lu 1276-T-EGT 2/    76           ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0      -          43.2
Cr 637-EGT           76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                 --    40.0          24.5
Ln 1285-EGT          76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0      -          10.0
Lu 1292-EGT          76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0      -          38.4
Lu 1369-EGT          77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                56.0     --          47.3
Cr 681-EGT           77          ARE           Education                               -     25.0           6.1
Cr 719-EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  -     27.0          13.9
Ln 1439-EGT          77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0     --          27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77           ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0     -           12.0
Lu 1453-EGT          77          EEA           Regional Electrification               48.0     -           30.5
Ln 1456-EGT          77          ARE           Industrial Imports                     70.0     -           40.0
Ln S-005-EGT         77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5      -           1.1
Engineering
Lu 1482-EGT          78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0      -          44.8
Cr 5-20-EGT          78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                --     2.0            0.3
Cr 774-EGT           78          ARE           Telecommunications II                   -     53.0           53.0
Lu 1533-EGT          78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III        40.0      --          30.2
Cr 830-EGT           78          ARE           Agricultural Development                --    32.0           32.0
Cr 831-EGT           78          ARE           Urban Development                       -     14.0           13.7
Cr 850-EGT           79          ARE           Second Population                       --    25.0           24.9
Cr 868-EGT           79         ARE            Second Education                                0
La 5-14-EGT          79          ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0   40-              39.5
and Technical Assistance                                   8.3
Cr 909-EGT           79          ARE           Tourismi/                               -     32.5           32.5
Ln 1732-EGT          79          ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                       75.0      --          75.04
Cr 935-EdT           79          ARE           Sho4brah El Kheima                            37.0           37.0
Thermal Power 3/
Ln 1733-EGT          79          EEA           Shoubrah El Kheim                     102.0      -          102.0
Thermal Power 3/ 5/
Totals                                                                              919.0  568.0          881.5
Of which hba  been repaid                                                             58.5
Total now outstanding                                                               860.5
Amount sold                                                             7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                7.4            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                      860.4  568.O          881.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obliger                     Type of Business                     Loan          Equity       Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company        Ceramic Industry                      4.25             .75        5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment) (5.635)
1977          Nile Clothing Company       Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40           0.20         0.60
1978          Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0             2.00       22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)       (23.00)
1979           Isuilla Misr Poultry        Food snd Food
Company                    Processing                          5.97           1.52         7.49
1979          Ismailia Fish Farming       Food and Food                         1.929            .453       2.382
CompAny                    Processing               (Plus 0.1 contigency commitment)    (2.492)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.
5/ Not included is EEC Sp. Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Dace:
December 31, 1980
Work on surface drains (1,700 km in about 950,000 feddans) is complete
and all eleven pumping stations are operational. Progress on field drainage
has been slow due to various reasons, including inadequate construction
management by contractors, shortage of cement (1978) and uncertainty as to
full allocation of needed local funds. However, full completion of the
project is expected to be achieved by the end of December 1980.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project generally was implemented satisfactorily but progress
on the electrical signalling items has been slow. An assurance by ER has
been given that work will be completed in time to enable disbursement of the
remaining $1.0 million of funds under the Credit by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Remodelling/excavation of open drains (1,640 km in 300,000 feddans)
is nearly complete. Construction of five pumping stations is 80 percent com-
plete. The Credit's closing date has recently been extended to July 31, 1981
to accommodate slow progress on installation of sub-surface drains due to
various factors including inadequate management by contractors and sugar
cane cropped in 50 percent of the project area. As of December 31, 1980,
this activity had been completed in about 60 percent of the planned area.
The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule. Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in early 1981 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from
the Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is
expected to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign costs of the project ($43.8
million) have remained basically unchanged since all procurement has been
completed or is in an advanced stage, but the local component continues to
escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works and delays
because of shortage of local funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication, the project is expected to be commissioned by
mid-1980, about two years behind schedule, partly because of delays in civil
works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.4 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date:_April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress in implementation has improved and about 85 percent of the
project funds have been committed. The design of the last major item of
equipment to be financed from the loan is now being undertaken. Because of
the initial delay in implementation, the project is now expected to be com-
pleted only by December 1981; the closing date of the loan will, therefore,
have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed instaliations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. Recommendations from a study by consultants are designed
to improve the rolling stock maintenance situation. Track maintenance is
lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contained many large investments



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 33 million was recorded for 1978.
Substantial freight tariff increases approved in 1979 should ameliorate the
situation, and proposals for increases in passenger fares are currently being
considered by the Government. A draft decree which would establish a National
Railway authority aims to give the railways inter alia considerably more
autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.4 million has been dis-
bursed as of January 25, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The contract for the major part of the civil works and dredging was
awarded in April 1979 and work is now progressing. Procurement of equipment is
also progressing satisfactorily. Because of the delayed start of the main
civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by June 1982; the
closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although
behind schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work on surface drains (1,602 km in 500,000 feddans) is about
55 percent complete. Progress on field drainage has fallen 30 percent behind
appraisal schedule mainly because of a delay of some two years with the supply
and erection of USAID financed equipment for three PVC pipe manufacturing
factories. It is expected that these factories will become operable between
February and May 1980. Seven contracts for installation of tile drains in the
entire project area (500,000 feddans) have been let out. Procurement is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year and a half delay caused by a
later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is
now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local currency)
more than appraised, due to increased scope of civil works and general price
increases of construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.
No difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement the
companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now been
overcome and both companies have developed effective project implementation
units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded in
the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Delays have occurred in implementing two main components (pipelines
and water treatment plant extensions) of this project. Pipeline construction
is now out for rebid (after a false start) and the civil works bid documents
are being finalized for the treatment plants; meanwhile pipes for the former
have been delivered and equipment for the latter is being manufactured and
delivery may commence shortly. Proposals for data processing equipment and
training have been called for. Meter replacement to improve AWA's operations
continues at a satisfactory pace. An application for a general tariff increase
is with the Governor for consideration by the Alexandria Local Council but
approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
contracts have been awarded and most of the fellowship and specialist assign-
ments have been completed. Ninety percent of equipment and furniture under
the project has been procured. Technical problems had been encountered with
the construction of the two technical institutes which needed to be redesigned,
resulting in a two year delay for this project item; and consequently, these
were transferred to Credit 868. However, the other 45 institutions are either
operational or are expected to open classes with only minor delays in the
schedule.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978~ Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, implementation
is behind schedule. Construction of surface drains (1,565 km in 810,000 fed-
dans) is about 30 percent complete. Contracts for construction of four new,
and renovation of two existing, pumping stations were awarded in November 1979.
Progress on field drainage (400,000 feddans) will depend on KfW financed PVC
pipe manufacturing factory for which consultants were appointed in October 1979
to select the site and to prepare tender documents. As commissioning of this
factory will be achieved about one year behind scheduled completion of
December 1979, it may accordingly defer full completion of the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. The Tariff Study has
started. Consultants for the distribution companies have been engaged. All
contracts for technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
As of January 25, 1980, about $29.5 million had been disbursed and
about $38.3 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as demolition and procurement of tugs,
there is some delay. This, however, is not expected to materially affect
the project completion date. The financial situation of the borrower is
sound, canal traffic and revenue being higher than appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Formal presentation of final draft report took place in December
1979. Project definition is evolving and preliminary discussions of possible
issues have started.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
January 25, 1980, $8.8 million had been disbursed and $32.2 million had been
committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by the first
quarter of 1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by April 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Satisfactory progress has been made in procurement of farm machin-
ery. Institutional development is lagging behind appraisal expectations.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Project implementation has started.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effective Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effective Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
All equipment lists and specifications have been approved; tenders
have been advertised and procurement is underway. All technical assistance
has been contracted. Of 21 institutions to be constructed, two have been
completed, eight are from 15 to 70 percent complete, and the remainder are
ready to be contracted.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effective Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement of mining equipment is underway and laboratory tests of
phosphate rock are being carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date has
been extended to March 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75.0 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project became effective on January 29, 1980; project implementation
has started.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT, Cr. No. 935-EGT and Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - Shoubrah
El Kheima Thermal Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 8, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
As action on effectiveness is still underway, effectiveness date was
extended by 90 days.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB IV) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
PI       Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              4 months (February 1979 to
May 1979
(b)  Date of first presentation to Bank:         February 1979
(c)  Agency preparing project:                   Development Industrial Bank
(DIB)
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                    May 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         January 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              August 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(i)  the loan would be utilized for projects promoted by domestic private
entrepreneurs, joint-venture projects and up to $10 million for
public sector enterprises with export potential (para. 50);
(ii) DIB would allocate at least 30 percent of its term lending approvals
in 1980 and 1981 to SSI projects defined as those promoted by
borrowers whose total fixed assets, excluding land and buildings,
do not exceed LE 200,000 in 1980 prices (para. 51);
(iii)  at least US$10.0 million from DIB's foreign exchange resources in
1980 and 1981 will be allocated for projects promoted by sponsors
whose fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do not exceed
LE 100,000 in 1980 prices (para. 51);
(iv) DIB's total short- and long-term debt and guarantees outstanding
will not exceed 7.0 times its equity (para. 58);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(v) a.s under the previous Bank loan, the foreign exchange risk between
the Egyptian Pound and US Dollar will be borne by the subborrower
and that between the US$ and currencies of disbursement by the
Government (para. 47);
(vi) the Government confirms its commitment to assist DIB in mobil-
izing local resources for a further five year period (para. 62).



IBRD 14925
GtOEC                   TAU<er    9                                                                                                                                                       FEBRUARYt i980
^w>ten px,* c^  4 X   vO                                                           ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
II A,Lt? g 0^~  sN,IL4DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
--5YA       ARABI U I                                                            BRANCH LOCATIONS
CH AD   I                                                                                           01 D A                   ,     290            3I0
5 U DA s (/ \; EtottoS                                                          KILOMETERS
4         S   P ~~~ETHIOPIA \
34l0
/ I       *      DIB H.odqoort"
a                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aedit erroneecn            Seo a                                                             D DBrzce
DIB Branh..
*  =  -  g/~  /  8   Internotional Airports
4~Dotnmtic Airports
Alaxon&                Fort sai                           'o ~~~~~~~~~~~~0     Capital City
)~   t  t   0;  r_       0      Citi  and Tot,rs
0 t                       Irorlio                                      '-'-'--    Rivers
Z                                      - ,-----------------
_- - 30y \30T                                                                                                                                                     -I"'Olia"al Bo__dori_
|  ,    ntor  ,                                           Ga  OCAIRO          SAC)
! .                        Dep  essatn  J
i                             r2                                                             tlny                                                  (  
Su                            V   SAUDI
>_ #                                                               +                      9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.r_kodt        A R A B I A
-  IAwn-                                                                                                                                                  _ 
-26'                                                                                                                                                                                                    e
rTl, map has a-a prepard Up IT,
W6r,1d Bank s-aff annh nv lyfor 
the cannTrTErca of the readers of                                                                               
ri ePT tfon Tro hch ir Is attached                                                                        
The denorrnjne,on.. fAiA. and frra
Ibouttdsnaa shown ron ntis map <NR' 
rronarnnp/y rIn orh tt ant of the                                                                        ,in    
Wr/sden  ndbh/irsn -M0ie il 1. -
-Id rt ahata an
* irdgnrartr on the leal StSA5v of                                                                     Xs 
2 ny tarttorrnyor afrty endorn t.n -r
d.-_ _ 1y?-1h.-  fd,
I  ~~~/W di Half. 
2,6                                                              30-                                5  U  D  A   N                 3!4



