Document of          FILE 1!n                  D f
The World Bank                            u
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2669-EGT
EGYPT
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 6, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EGYPT
LOAN TO DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
LE 1.00             =            US$1.43
US$1.00             =            LE 0.70
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EIB                          European Investment Bank
GOFI                         General Organization for Industrialization
DIB                          Development Industrial Bank
BOA                          Bank of Alexandria
NBE                          National Bank of Egypt
SSPIS                        Special Services to Private Industrial
Sector (Department within BOA)
CBE                          Central Bank of Egypt
MIDB                         Misr-Iran Development Bank
USAID                        U.S. Agency for International Development
OSF                          Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), Special Fund
EIDDC                        Engineering and Industrial Design and
Development Center
PVT                          Productivity and Vocational Training
Department, Ministry of Industry
IFZA                         Investment and Free Zone Authority
SSI                          Small-Scale Industrial Enterprises
LIBOR                        London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
ILO                          International Labor Office
SOE                          Statement of Expenditures
AFDB                         African Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION  ............................................                           1
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  ...................................                           1
Background and Structure  .....           ............... .                          1
Performance          .................................... .                          2
Government  Objectives and Strategy  ..... .............                             3
Potential  for Growth  ....................................                          3
Bank Assistance  to the Industrial  Sector  ................                         5
DIB's Role          ......................................                           6
II.   FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENVIRONMENT  ........................                           7
Financial  Institutions  ................................. .                         7
Financing of Industrial  Investment  .....            .............                  8
SSI Financing ...........................                                            9
Cost of Capital  in Egypt  ...............          ..      ...............         10
III.  THE DEVELOPMENT  INDUSTRIAL BANK  .........................                         11
Establishment,  Ownership and Control  .........            .. .........            11
Organization               ............................................             11
Board of Directors  ......... . ...........             ..................          12
Management,  Staff and Operations  ......             ...............  ..           13
Functions  and Policies  ................          ..     ................          16
Operations         ........................ ......................                  17
IV.   DIB'S OPERATIONS  ........................................                          18
Summary of Lending Operations  .............            ..     ............         18
Financial and Technical Assistance  to SSIs  ............                           19
Operations Outside Cairo-Alexandria  and DIB's Branches  ..                         22
Bank Financed Operations of DIB  .........................                          23
The report is based on the findings of a mission, consisting of Messrs.
Haji, Diop and Ibanez, which visited DIB in May 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   DIB'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, RESOURCES AND PROSPECTS .....            24
Financial Performance and Position .......................            24
Projected Operations and Resources .......................           27
Projections of Profitability and Financial Position   ......         30
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ....         ............   31
Project Justification and Objectives .....................           31
Project Risks ............................................           32
The Loan .................................................           33
ANNEXES                                                                Annex No.
Summary of Operations ....................................            1
Analysis of Lending Approvals ............................            2
List of Selected Documents Available in Project File   .....          3
MAP OF EGYPT



EGYPT
LOAN TO DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
FOR INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
INTRODUCTION
(i)       This report appraises DIB for a second IBRD loan since DIB became
an autonomous institution in 1976. 1/  DIB was appraised for the first IBRD
loan in July 1977 and this report updates the findings of the Bank's previous
appraisal report (Report 1809a-EGT of February 28, 1978).
(ii)      DIB is still a young institution.  However, it has grown remarkably
since its creation three years ago. While it faces a number of difficulties
due in part to the environment and to its status as a public sector financial
institution, it has, however, already obtained widespread recognition from the
private sector as Egypt's development Bank.
(iii)     In its association with DIB, the Bank is pursuing a long term
strategy of assistance to the private sector in line with the Government's
renewed and strong interest in the sector (Chapter I). Within the context
of the proposed loan the Bank aims at improving further DIB's management and
staff, as well as strengthening DIB's appraisal, supervision and economic work
(Chapter III) so that DIB can more effectively reach the private sector, espe-
cially small scale industrial enterprises (SSI). The SSI subsector is one
where perhaps DIB alone can, at this stage, take a leading role in Egypt and
within the context of the project, DIB's ability to deal with SSI would
continue to be strengthened.
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Background and Structure
1.01      Industry has become a significant sector of the Egyptian economy
with its share in GDP rising from around 8% in 1946 to about 15% in 1978.
In 1978, industry employed about 1.2 million persons, or nearly 12% of the
civilian labor force, and is responsible for about 37% of commodity exports.
As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public sector,
comprising some 200 enterprises, accounts for almost all large and medium
scale industrial enterprises. It generates some two-thirds of the value
added in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of the total
industrial employment. All basic industries (iron and steel, fertilizers,
heavy engineering, spinning and weaving, etc.) are in the public sector.
1/   These loans were preceded by two IDA credits when DIB was until 1976,
still a department of the Bank of Alexandria (BOA).



-2-
1.02      Textiles, food products, leather, woodworking and furniture, and
engineering are the important industries of private activity and, by exten-
sion, of small scale manufacturing. Out of about 4,000 private establish-
ments employing 10 or more workers, establishments employing 10-50 workers
account for 90% of the total number and 57% of the total employment of this
group. The artisanal sector, defined in Egypt as establishments employing
up to 9 workers, occupies an important place within the private sector with
a share of about 16% of manufacturing value-added. The artisanal sector is
primarily oriented toward production of household consumption goods. Greater
Cairo and Alexandria represent the major concentrations of private manufactur-
ing capacity with 77% of employment and 72% of establishments with 10 employees
or more. 1/
Performance
1.03      Performance of the industrial sector has improved in recent years
following the adoption of the "open door" policy in 1973 which resulted in
relaxation of controls and subsequent greater availability of foreign exchange.
While the growth of industrial output in the public sector in real terms in
1973 and 1974 was low (2.1% and 2.6%), during 1975-77 it jumped to about 8-9%
per annum. Preliminary data for 1978 indicate, however, a negligible increase
in real output over 1977, because of poor performance of the public sector.
In general, the private industrial sector has performed somewhat better than
that of the public sector during the past few years. Private sector output
which stagnated during 1972-74 increased by an annual average of 15% in real
terms between 1974-76; the growth rate declined to about 8% in 1977 partly
because of the lower export demand from bilateral countries. Leather building
materials, chemicals, woodworking and engineering were the fastest growing
private industries in that order. The textile and food processing industries
performed modestly.
1.04      Exports of manufactured products are estimated at about LE 500
million in 1978 (8% of industrial output), or about one-third of total exports.
Private sector manufacturing exports which showed strong growth in 1974 and
1975 declined sharply in 1976 and 1977 because of reduction in exports to East
European countries under bilateral agreements. The share of private sector in
total industrial exports declined from 24% in 1975 to 17% in 1977. Major
products exported by the private sector include essential oils and chemicals,
leather products, textiles and wooden furniture in that order.
1.05      The share of the private sector in total industrial investment
during 1969-74 had been extremely small, averaging about 4%. Following the
adoption of the "open door" policy, the private sector's share of total
industrial investment increased to about 10-12% during 1975-78. Investment
licenses issued by the General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI) to
the private sector increased from LE 67 million in 1975 to LE 167 million in
1/   Details of the structural features are given in the report "Arab Republic
of Egypt: Survey of Small Scale Industry", dated December 2, 1977.



- 3 -
1978, indicating an upsurge in the investment plans of the private sector. In
addition, some 243 manufacturing projects involving an investment of LE 1,339
million by the private sector 1/ had been licensed until the end of 1978 by
the Investment and Free Zones Authority (IFZA). These developments reflect
the favorable response of the private sector to the Government's initiatives.
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.06      The 1978-82 Plan which is currently being revised, relies on rapid
industrialization to increase the growth rate of the economy, to create pro-
ductive employment opportunities, to cater to basic consumer needs, and to
create an "export surplus". Industry's role as a lead sector is reflected
in the Plan's investment allocations, which amount to some 35% of the LE 13.2
billion total investment budget. The proposed strategy to achieve these
objectives is through selection of projects leading to efficient import sub-
stitutions and exports, increase in capacity utilization, and by improving
the administrative and technical efficiency of industry and removal of infra-
structural bottlenecks. The Government also recognizes the contribution which
a dynamic private sector can make to the country's industrial development.
The Plan indicates that private investment will account for 21% of total
industrial investment during 1978-82, which is twice the level attained during
1975-77. While the Plan does not spell out a strategy for the development of
the private sector, there has been a liberalization of investment licensing
and greater availability of foreign exchange for imports of spares and raw
materials, which has stimulated private investment. The proposed large
increase in private investment would require substantial support from financial
institutions in order to be realized.
Potential for Growth
1.07      Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic market
and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An industrial
structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large relatively low-cost
labor force. Though Egypt is not endowed with a wide range of raw materials,
they are adequate to develop efficient industries in many subsectors. Small
and medium scale industrial private sector enterprises appear to have poten-
tial for growth because of such factors as relatively low scale economies,
relatively low capital intensity and high income elasticities of demand for
many products, strong backward and forward linkages and substantial possi-
bilities for efficient import substitution and export. In this regard the
1/   These projects established under Law 43/1974 (as modified by Law 32/1977)
involve the investment of foreign capital for which the enterprises are
eligible to incentives such as tax holidays and tax free imports of
capital goods.



-4-
following subsectors would appear to have the greatest potential for growth 1/:
engineering (fabricated metal products, electrical and non-electrical machinery,
transport equipment, and professional and scientific equipment), food process-
ing, ready-made garments, footwear and leather products, wood products and
furniture, plastics, and construction materials.
1.08      There can be no doubt that a dynamic private sector comprising small
and medium scale industrial enterprises can contribute substantially to growth
and employment. Given that most public sector industry is captiaL intensive
and overstaffed, it is the private sector which will have to provide the bulk
of employment opportunities. Since small scale establishments create jobs at
a substantially lower cost compared to large firms 2/, support to SSI should
command high priority in the light of the growing urban unemployment.  Support
to SSI would also enable the most efficient and dynamic of these enterprises
to grow gradually to medium and large-scale enterprises. In addition to
tangible socio-domestic advantages 3/, support for SSI may help reduce the
existing high concentration of industrial activity in Cairo and Alexandria.
1.09      In order for Egyptian industry to play the lead role described above,
it will be necessary for the Government to continue its efforts to overcome
industrial bottlenecks, such as obsolete equipment, the result of past shortage
of foreign exchange; inadequate training, lack of contact with new technology,
products, marketing and management techniques, which are to be explained by
Egypt's limited exposure during the 1960s and early 1970s to the markets that
could offer these facilities. Active assistance is being provided or sought
to familiarize the industrial sector with modern production techniques and
training, and the redirection of Egypt's trade toward free currency markets
and the trend in replacement of obsolete machinery should result in improve-
ments in product quality. Also, legislation designed to make the public
sector more competitive was introduced in 1978.
1.10      The private sector which consists of predominantly small scale
enterprises continues to suffer from fundamental constraints which inhibit
1/   Based on their performance in past years, recent approvals and existing
pipeline of DIB as well as findings of the SSI sector survey (Report
No. 1818-EGT).
2/   Data from private sector projects (based on investment licenses issued
by GOFI) show a capital/labor ratio (including working capital) of LE
5,086 (US$7,300) in 1977, which is relatively low.
3/   The organization of industrial activity in smaller units can be expected
to: provide greater scope for initiative and the development of techni-
cal and managerial skills; adapt production techniques suitable to the
country's particular circumstances; promote more equitable distribution
of income; and stimulate savings.



efficient operation. The lack of access to institutional finance is a serious
problem affecting the growth prospects of SSI, particularly of enterprises
occupying the lower end of the size range. Major internal problems adversely
affecting productivity include: (a) obsolete machinery; (b) inefficient
technical and management methods (product design and new product development,
process engineering, production planning and work methods, materials management,
quality control and preventive maintenance; (c) poor housekeeping and working
conditions due to shortage of work space; and (d) marketing problems. Not all
of these problems apply to every enterprise or every industry equally. The
nature of these problems, however, attests to a built-in weakness, namely the
lack of specialized managerial, technical and marketing expertise within a
small organization. To remedy these problems a comprehensive program of
technical assistance is needed (para. 1.14).
1.11      While the Government is appreciative of the potentiaL of the private
sector including SSI in Egypt's industrial development and growth, it has yet
to properly define the prospective role of the SSI sector, to strengthen the
supportive administrative and policy framework (e.g. tariff structure, export
incentives, etc.), to devise a strategy conducive to self-sustained growth
and, finally, to address actively the problems constraining the sector's
development. The Bank has made specific recommendations in its report "Arab
Republic of Egypt: Survey of Small Scale Industry" dated December 2, 1977 to
assist the Government in tackling these issues. Some of these suggestions are
of a macro-economic nature and extend beyond the SSI sector but others require
mainly administrative action. The Bank is following up on the implementation
of these suggestions in its dialogue with the Government. In particular, the
Bank aims at strengthening the administrative capabilities of Government
agencies responsible for devising and implementing policy measures.
Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector
1.12      The Bank's recent industrial lending program has included assistance
to the Government in its attempt to: (i) relieve foreign exchange constraints
and thus improve capacity utilization (program loans); (ii) rationalize sub-
sectors to improve productivity; (iii) assist individual, large, high priority
projects; and (iv) develop financial intermediaries (DFCs) to enable financial
and technical assistance to be extended to private sector firms. Loans to
important government-owned enterprises for which the Bank can induce a dia-
logue and help resolve serious sector problems will continue to make up a
preponderant share of the industrial lending program.
1.13      As far as the private sector is concerned, the Bank aims at assist-
ing the Government in improving the efficiency and growth prospects of the
sector through modernization of plant and equipment and correct:ing the numerous
problems hampering development. To achieve these objectives, Bank strategy
for the development of the private sector is directed toward working with the
Government to redress the policy biases against SSI (para. 1.11), and to
develop a suitable technical assistance program to assist SSI in resolving
various technical and management problems (para. 1.14), as well as providing
financial assistance through intermediaries, such as DIB, to subsectors where
small and medium scale firms have high potential for growth (para. 1.10) and



would lead to their gradual integration with the rest of the industrial
sector. Viability and self-sustained growth of SSI are most likely to be
attained by focusing on industrial activities with promising growth potential
and characterized by low scale economies catering to specialized or low-priced
market niches or displaying complementarity with activities undertaken by
larger firms through ancillary or sub-contracting relationships. Hence finan-
cial intermediaries would be expected to give preference to projects which are
export oriented, lead to efficient import substitution or cater to the needs
of urban poor, have linkages with larger enterprises through ancillary or
sub-contracting relationships and adopt labor-intensive technologies to
achieve the maximum possible employment generation.
1.14      The proposed project will provide financing through DIB to private
sector enterprises for renewal, balancing and modernization investment as well
as for establishing new projects. To enhance the success of the SSI effort,
financial and technical assistance will be combined as appropriate. Under the
DIB-IIl loan, the Bank had included a pilot component for the provision of
technical assistance to SSI involving an industrial extension service to
up-grade management practices in small scale enterprises, and programs for
accelerated training of unskilled workers and skill upgrading of craftsmen.
Implementation of this component has been delayed because of the failure of
the executing agencies to hire qualified advisors to organize the program and
due to delays encountered by the agencies in obtaining local funds from the
Government. These problems have now been resolved, and it is expected that
the component will be implemented during the next few months. Its progress
will be monitored and assessed during the implementation of the proposed
loan (para. 4.08-4.09).
DIB's Role
1.15      DIB will be essentially financing small and medium scale private
sector projects since large private sector projects including those established
as joint ventures would most likely be financed by MIDB, and most public sector
projects are being financed through Government. In order to enhance its
capability to deal with SSI clients, DIB has set-up an SSI Department at
headquarters and established a branch at Tanta to improve its access to SSI
clients. DIB is considering the possibility of opening branches in other
regions to increase its impact on SSI. In appraising private sector projects
for financing, DIB will continue to play close attention to the project's
viability as well as its contribution to the sector's development. Moreover,
DIB will liaise with the technical assistance agencies, referring clients who
need assistance in resolving management and technical problems.



II. FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ENVIRONMENT
A. Financial Institutions
2.01      Long-term institutional financing for industry in Egypt is provided
mainly by DIB and the Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB), the only two indus-
trial development banks in Egypt. MIDB is a joint venture bank owned 50%
by the Iranian Government and 50% by Egypt, which was established in 1975.
(The Bank is considering a first loan to MIDB.) DIB and MIDB's operations are
complementary in that DIB promotes and finances mainly domestic private small
and medium industries through both local and foreign currency loans, while
MIDB finances medium to large industries,particularly joint ventures, exclu-
sively through foreign currency loans and equity participations.
2.02      Other banks providing significant amounts of financing for indus-
trial investments are the four State owned banks (National Bank, Bank Misr,
Bank of Alexandria and Banque du Caire), Cairo Barclays (one of the many joint-
venture banks) and the two international banks located in Cairo--Arab African
Bank and Arab International Bank. From the non-banking institutions, indus-
trial development finance has been provided by the Misr Insurance Company
and two joint-venture investment companies -- the Kuwait Egyptian Investment
Company and the Saudi Egyptian Industrial Development Company. Most of the
term financing by all these institutions, except for Cairo Barclays, has been
in the form of equity investments. They often depend on MIDB and sometimes
DIB for appraising projects for cofinancing but some have financed projects
also on their own. In particular, Bank Misr has a strong interest in finan-
cing large industrial projects while the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) has
shown interest in small business financing.
2.03      Commercial banking, including short-term lending, continues to be
dominated by the four State owned banks. The large number of joint-venture
banks and foreign bank branches have taken away a good share of private
sector business; but public sector business, which accounts for about 80% of
the total commercial banking business, remains with the State owned banks.
2.04      There are two stock exchanges in Egypt, one in Cairo and one in
Alexandria, but they have not made a significant contribution to the mobiliza-
tion of industrial finance in the past two decades. The securities listed
include only 48 stocks (of which 21 have public sector majority ownership) and
eight bond issues (of Government or public sector institutions). Annual trad-
ing volume has been about LE 15 million in recent years. A committee consist-
ing of representatives from the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), IFZA, and the
stock exchange has been studying ways and means to revitalize the securities
market. With the assistance of IFC and a reputable international investment
firm, the committee has drafted a law, which it expects to be enacted soon,
for the establishment of a Capital Markets Authority for the development and
regulation of capital markets in Egypt.



- 8 -
B. Financing of Industrial Investment
2.05      Public sector industrial investments continue to be financed pri-
marily from the national budget and, to a limited extexA, from internally
generated funds. The commercial banks generally provide only working capital
financing, although some investments in fixed assets are also financed through
rolled-over short-term loans, a practice being discouraged by the CBE. For
the private sector (including joint-venture), the main sources of investment
financing are the financial institutions mentioned above. DIB, the investment
companies and the State owned cdmmercial banks provide both local and foreign
currency resources while MIDB, Cairo Barclays and the two international banks
provide financing exclusively in foreign currency. Equity financing (mostly
for local costs of projects) is estimated to account on the average for about
40% of project costs.
2.06      Industrial finance -- particularly foreign exchange for the private
sector--has been in short supply in the past, but the supply has been increas-
ing rapidly in recent years. Inflow of foreign exchange resources from
bilateral and multilateral financial institutions including the Bank Group,
workers remittances, Suez Canal earnings and tourism earnings have all helped
to ease the situation. Given a continuation of this trend in the inflow of
resources (including those to DIB), the foreign exchange needs of the private
industrial sector can be adequately met by existing financial institutions.
Under the previous dual foreign exchange system (see below para 2.07) these
foreign exchange funds could be purchased at the "parallel market rate"
(LE 0.70 = $1.00) which reflected better the market value of the Egyptian
pound than the official rate (LE 0.40 = $1.00). Local currency resources were
at times used by some private investors to purchase foreign exchange and
finance investments. However, this source of investment financing did not
substitute for MIDB or DIB's foreign exchange loan financing to any signif-
icant extent, given the advantage that MIDB and DIB provide long-term loans
with suitable grace periods.
2.07      In January 1979 the Government implemented a de facto 46% devalua-
tion of the Egyptian pound by establishing a "unified rate of exchange" (LE
0.70 = $1.00) under which most of the transactions in foreign exchange are now
made. 1/ Moreover two foreign exchange pools were established: (i) an offi-
cial Central Bank Pool under which all borrowings either directly contracted
by the Government or guaranteed by it (e.g., public sector borrowings) are
regulated and whose proceeds are not available otherwise; (ii) a Commercial
Bank Pool under which all private transactions (e.g., non-Government Euro-
borrowings, correspondent facilities, etc.) are made without CBE control. The
latter pool takes over from the old "parallel foreign exchange market" and its
1/   There are still a few exceptions, notably transactions under ongoing
bilateral trade agreements with the Eastern European countries and wheat
imports.



-9-
resources consists of some export proceeds, private transfers and other borrow-
ings not guaranteed by the Government. Under this pool any bank including DIB
and public sector banks, may borrow abroad at its own risk and manage freely
its foreign exchange resources thus contracted. These measures, however appear
to have dampened the foreign exchange loan activities of public sector banks as
they are not guaranteed ready access to the official pool, should there be a
shortfall in their foreign exchange resources to meet obligations. This is
expected to further decrease the already limited amount of foreign exchange
available to those banks for term lending, and curtail free market transac-
tions 1/ in the near future.
C. SSI Financing
2.08      The banking system as a whole provides financing to SSI in the
general framework of their short-term lending operations, without any partic-
ular emphasis or special procedures tailored to the requirements of such
borrowers. Bank branch managers perceive such loans as having low profits and
high risk. Only the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) has kept up some interest in
small business lending and it provides mainly short-term and occasionally
medium-term local currency loans. At the end of 1978, its outstanding loans
to small business amounted to around LE 0.5 million (compared with total
assets of LE 2.6 billion) involving some 4,000 clients. 2/ The loans are
limited to a maximum LE 5,000 and are not secured (the NBE Board authorized
allocations of up to LE 1.0 million in provisions for losses against such
loans but NBE has incurred no losses so far). Loans range from 2 months for
working capital to 3 years for equipment and currently bear a 10% rate. Under
the Bank financed urban development project (Staff Appraisal Report No. 1976
EGT dated June 6, 1978) a line of credit of LE 805,000 ($1.15 million) is
allocated to refinance small business loans made by the NBE under this scheme.
Loans would be up to a maximum LE 5,000 ($7,150) per enterprise located in the
project area. As this project is only in its initial implementing phase, no
conclusion can be drawn yet on NBE's performance.
2.09      The second institution catering to SSI is the Nasser Social Bank,
which'is a public sector entity administering various social funds and pro-
grams. Only a small portion of its financing is for productive purposes. Its
financing of SSI has been limited to bulk purchasing from abroad and resale on
an installment basis of machinery and equipment, taxis and tourist buses. The
1/   Free market transactions between buyers and sellers of foreign exchange
are legal provided they are made through authorized banks in Egypt
(Foreign Exchange Law 97/1976). The rate under the market has been
about 5%-10% above the unified rate.
2/   The definition of the eligible group is not clear but judging from the
maximum loan ceiling of LE 5,000, only very small artisanal enterprises
may be involved.



- 10 -
Nasser Bank operates along islamic principles and charges no interest on its
loans. In return however, it requires substantial collateral and adds a pro-
fit margin to resale prices thereby inducing a much higher cost to the borrower
than under normal banking finance. It also finances raw material requirements
of SSI through their cooperative organizations. The amount of such financing
could not be obtained but is reported to be small in comparison to DIB's, owing
to its high cost. The third institution most heavily involved in financing
SSI is DIB whose SSI operations are detailed in paras. 4.02, 4.04 and 4.05.
D. Cost of Capital in Egypt
2.10      Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all finan-
cial institutions are regulated by the CBE. Interest rates on local currency
loans were increased further in March 1979 from a range of 9% - 11% to 10% -
12%, while the maximum rate obtainable on savings (term) deposits was increased
from 6.0% to 8.5%. The maximum interest rates on lending and deposits have
increased by 4% and 5% respectively over the last 4 years or so. (Since 1977
interest earnings on bank deposits are tax exempt.) As a result of these
changes various local notes and bonds issued by banks now yield interest
varying from 7% to 8.5% for short-term and long-term issues while redeemable
savings certificates may yield up to 9%. Inflation rates are difficult to
measure in Egypt. The wholesale price index shows increases of 10.3% each
in 1976 and 1977 and 8.7% in 1978. However, the official index is biased by
controlled prices for essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and
does not adequately reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where
price levels tend to be significantly higher. It is thus difficult to ascer-
tain whether the current interest rates on local currency loans are adequate
in the light of current inflation. Stabilization policies are, nevertheless,
currently under review by the Government, which is also considering further
adjustments to the interest rates.
2.11      Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE
and reflect the cost of those resources. The interest rate on DIB and MIDB
dollar loans is currently 11% to 12% (except on SSI loans made by DIB from
OPEC Special Fund where the maximum rate is 8%). Foreign exchange loans
provided by other institutions (mostly short-term and some long-term) gene-
rally carry floating interest rates of about 2% over LIBOR 1/ (which was
about 11% during the last quarter of 1979). Commercial credits including
export financing carry rates varying from 7.5% to 9.0% according to the terms
and currencies; however taking into account commissions, fees and other
administrative charges, their effective cost can reach 9% to 9.5% p.a. In
addition downpayment requirements of up to 20% of commitments to be paid in
foreign currency, the necessity for sub-borrowers to assume the entire foreign
exchange risk and tied procurement tend to generally limit the utilization of
such facilities. DIB has however agreed in principle to experiment and
utilize one or two of these facilities (para 5.14).
1/   London Inter Bank Offering Rate.



- 11 -
2.12      The proposed Bank loan will be onlent to the sub-borrowers (and
repaid by them) at the unified market exchange rate. This rate closely
approximates the free market exchange rate at present, and is expected to
be adjusted from time to time to reflect fluctuations in the market value
of the Egyptian pound. As under the preceding Bank loan, the foreign
exchange risk between the US Dollar and the Egyptian pound under the proposed
loan will be passed on to the sub-borrowers with the Government assuming the
risk between the US dollar and currencies disbursed by the Bank. DIB's
current lending rate of 12% on Bank funds for its DFC subborrowers and 11%
for SSI subborrowers is a good approximation of the current market cost of
the long-term foreign exchange in the international capital markets. Taking
into account the fact that SSI borrowers will also assume the exchange risk
between the US Dollar and Egyptian pound, the concession to such borrowers is
considered reasonable.
III. THE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
A. Establishment, Ownership and Control
3.01      DIB was established by Ministerial Decree 65 of February 17, 1975,
which also sets forth its articles of establishment. DIB formally commenced
operations on August 1, 1976, taking over the functions and part of the port-
folio of the SSPIS Unit (Special Services to Private Industrial Sector) of
the Bank of Alexandria (BOA). DIB's paid-in share capital has been increased
recently by LE 5 million to LE 15.0 million. The Ministry of Finance is the
sole shareholder; its interest is administered by CBE. Under Egyptian law,
CBE's supervisory powers over banks are much wider than those normally given
to a central bank. The policy orientation and financial plans of all public
sector banks, including DIB, are controlled by CBE. DIB's annual budgets,
salary structure, financial statements and appropriations from income require
CBE's approval.
B. Organization
3.02      DIB operates through its head office in Cairo and three branch
offices in Cairo, Alexandria and Tanta (about mid-way between Cairo and
Alexandria) which was established in early 1979. The branches of DIB have
the main responsibility for customer relations, disbursement and repayment
of loans and maintaining customer deposits and accounts. The basic functions
of project appraisal, supervision, mobilization and management of resources,
planning and budgeting, are the responsibility of the head office staff. How-
ever, the responsibility for initial appraisal work (data gathering, credit
check, and the preparation of draft appraisal reports) for short-term and SSI
term loans has been delegated to the branches.
3.03      Functional departments at the head office are grouped into fifteen
"General Departments" that are headed by Managers twelve of which are super-
vised by three General Managers. The departments for Legal Affairs, and



- 12 -
Internal Control, and the Board Secretariat report directly to the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman. Long-term operations and resource moblization, short-term and
SSI operations, and finance and administration, are the main functional groups
under the charge of the three General Managers. Included in the first group
are also the General Department for Investment and Promotion and the General
Department for Economic Affairs.
C. Board of Directors
3.04      The number of directors of public sector banks is fixed by law at
seven members, to include five from within the bank (Law 120 of 1975). The
Board members are appointed by a Presidential decree and must include the five
senior-most managers of DIB--the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and three General
Managers--and two external directors. Two of the five internal Board members
originally appointed in June 1976, including the Vice-Chairman have retired.
During negotiations of the third Bank loan to DIB, the Government confirmed
its intention to fill future vacancies in DIB's Board with persons of high
qualifications and suitable professional and business experience and to keep
the Bank informed of possible changes in the law regarding the composition of
the boards of directors of public sector banks. In line with this understand-
ing DIB's Chairman has submitted to the Government its nominations to fill
the two Board vacancies and appoint one of the members as Vice-Chairman. The
three candidates are qualified and competent senior managers of DIB whose
appointment is expected to be confirmed shortly. In the meantime, two of the
nominees already participate in the deliberations of the board. The two
original external directors, an industrial economist and professor at the
University of Alexandria and an advisor in the Investment and Free Zone
Authority, remain on the Board. Both are qualified and competent directors
and make a positive contribution to the Board's effectiveness. The Bank
should continue to advise DIB and ensure that future appointees to senior
positions are adequately qualified.
3.05      The legal composition of DIB's Board limits the experience and
expertise it can draw from suitable external directors. The Government has no
plans to' change the present legal set-up applicable to all public sector
banks--which had only been approved in 1975 when for the first time, outside
members were introduced to the Board. The Government and the CBE recognize
that in the case of DIB there is a special need for qualified and expert
advice to cope with DIB's role as the primary institution for private indus-
trial lending.
3.06      Thus, as agreed with the Bank, DIB in April 1978 established an
Advisory Committee to its Board, composed of seven prominent and experienced
private citizens with expertise in industry and finance. In connection with
the proposed fourth loan, the Bank mission reviewed with DIB the experience of
the Advisory Committee since its establishment, and concluded that the results
have been in line with the expectations for the Committee. DIB has benefited
from valuable advice from its members both on project decisions and policy
matters. This will continue under the proposed loan.



- 13 -
3.07       The Board determines the bank's organizational structure, policies
and modus operandi within the framework and regulations set and supervised by
the CBE (para 3.01). It approves all foreign currency loans above US$250,000
and local currency loans above LE 500,000 at its meetings held once a month,
or more often as necessary. Approval authority for lower amounts have been
delegated by the Board to senior managers of the Bank.
D. Management, Staff and Operations
Management
3.08      DIB's senior and middle management which is well-known to the Bank
has grown in competence and confidence since DIB formally commenced operations
in August 1976. There is a better delegation of responsibilities and improve-
ment in internal flow of information between operational staff and managers.
Under the first loan, DIB had also agreed to appoint a Management Advisor.
Although after some delays a qualified Management Advisor joined DIB in
September 1979, it is yet too earLy to assess the results of this assignment.
3.09       Strengthening of DIB's management and staff has been a major objec-
tive under previous Bank loans. DIB's efforts in achievement of rapid and
significant results in this respect, however, are severely constrained by the
legal and institutional framework within which it operates as a public sector
bank. 1/ Appointments of senior staff and board members have to be approved
by Presidential Decrees; the maximum salaries it can offer are restricted by
the scales applicable to all public sector banks which are substantially below
what qualified staff can obtain in private banks; and there are severe restric-
tions on DIB's ability to dismiss redundant or incompetent staff. Recognizing
these constraints DIB, in agreement with the Bank, undertook measures which
are expected to result in a steady improvement in DIB's management within its
existing framework. Bank missions in the past two years have reviewed the
progress in implementing these measures to date and concluded that despite
certain delays, the measures are beginning to work satisfactorily. There is
no doubt however that the objectives and expectations formulated under the
third loan have to be carried over under the proposed loan. Significant
results will be slow to materialize and would require patience and determina-
tion from both sides.
Staff and Operations
3.10      As of May 1, 1979, DIB had a total staff of 300 including 171 2/
professionals. Of these about two thirds are at the head office and a third
1/   In 1977, prior to the third Bank loan, conversion of DIB into a joint-
venture bank with participation of IFC was actively considered, but was
eventually ruled out by the Government.
2/   Since that time, staff in key areas have been increased as discussed
in para. 3.13.



- 14 -
in the three branches. An organization chart, a detailed description of
the functions of main operating departments and essential features of DIB's
operating procedures, which have not changed substantially since DIB III, were
presented in the Bank's appraisal report for the previous loan (Report 1809a-
EGT of February 28, 1978). An updating memorandum however, has been prepared
and is included for reference in the Project File. The principaL issues
concerning DIB's staff and operations and the measures suggested under the
proposed project are discussed below.
3.11      From its creation DIB has faced serious difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff. Legal and institutional constraints in Egypt have not
permitted DIB to have full autonomy with respect to salaries, internal
organization and in general career development of its staff. This situation
is particularly frustrating since financial institutions in the private
sector are free to offer substantially better compensation and career devel-
opment opportunities than public institutions like DIB.
3.12      It is therefore not surprising to still observe weaknesses in DIB's
performance with respect to appraisal and supervision work. For example,
under DIB-II and -III, the Bank has had difficulties in approving DIB's
subprojects because of inadequate analysis of the market for subprojects
(para 3.21). There has often been a lack of depth in DIB's economic analysis
of its projects. As noted earlier, through various advisory services and
close assistance from the Bank (for example, during supervision), DIB and its
major creditors IBRD and USAID, are seriously trying to overcome these weak-
nesses. We have recognized these efforts and are convinced that existing
weaknesses will gradually be improved over the next three or four years as
DIB matures. This belief is based primarily on the progress achieved since
DIB's establishment in 1976 and the commitment of DIB's management to further
strengthen DIB in spite of a difficult environment. Increasing recognition by
the private sector of DIB's role as well as the support of the Central Bank in
this role should create further pressures for DIB to improve itself.
3.13      Institutional improvements thus remain a key objective within the
context of this project. Our requirements in this respect have taken several
forms, particularly (i) the review and continuation of the advisory services
(para 3.06); (ii) an agreed program with DIB of staff recruitment, which seems
now possible since the Government has relaxed a number of administrative
constraints with respect to staff compensation; (iii) continuing our dialogue
and pressure on DIB and the Government to give DIB further autonomy in staff
matters. The specific measures discussed with DIB during preparation of this
project (some of which are in the process of implementation) are as follows:
(a)  Recruitment of additional staff.  Staff of the Term-Lending
(including engineers) and the Follow-Up Departments have been
increased to 25 and 12 professionals respectively. These
levels are considered adequate for DIB's current operations.
However, DIB will increase the staff as and when increases
appear necessary in the future.



- 15 -
(b) Strengthening DIB's capabilities to assist SSIs. Staff
of the newly established SSI Department has also increased
recently to 7 officers. DIB in consultation with ILO, has
commenced the necessary actions to identify a qualified
SSI advisor and applied to UNDP for financing the advisor,
who is expected to be recruited during 1980.
(c)  Increased role of the Economic Department.  Although the
Department has also been increased recently (to six) DIB
continues to face the problem of attracting senior and
qualified economists at the salary levels it can offer.
DIB intends to continue its effort in this respect and in
the meantime is trying to recruit senior economists who
could assist DIB staff on a part-time basis.
(d) Continued staff training. DIB management gives a particular
emphasis to staff training programs and in the past has
consulted the Bank regularly on this matter. Most of DIB's
staff engaged in project appraisal participated in the two
training courses organized at DIB in 1979 by A.D. Little
(and financed by the USAID). DIB intends to organize similar
courses beginning in 1981 and send five to six of its staff
for suitable training programs abroad.
(e) Project Advisor. The appraisal mission has confirmed the
long term needs for DIB to receive advisory services for at
least the next two years. Under the first loan DIB had agreed
to appoint a Project Advisor (in addition to the Management
Advisor referred to in para 3.08). Since March 1979 a project
advisor seconded from the A.D. Little Management Education
Institute has been assisting DIB's appraisal staff. The
advisor is qualified and experienced and is being financed by
USAID under their technical assistance program to DIB. The
original program of the project advisor was for regular visits
to DIB of 3-4 week duration for a total of 35 weeks, extending
through early 1980. The project advisor provides assistance to
DIB staff in the project appraisals and in particular guides
the staff in the practical application of the training obtained
through course-work and seminars also conducted by A.D. Little
under the USAID program. This part-time project advisory
service in lieu of the full-time post originally agreed with
DIB is acceptable. DIB has recently extended the contract for
the advisor to mid-1980 and may extend it further to end 1980.
It intends to recruit an advisor in 1981, from one of the
European institutions for which it has obtained a grant from
the EIB.
3.14       It is recognized that these measures which DIB is taking are limited
and will take time to implement; however, it deals with DIB's most urgent
needs. The scope of this plan is adequate and within the institutional
capabilities of DIB at this stage. It can be implemented while enabling DIB



- 16 -
to both serve its clients for the volume of business projected in Chapter V
and to devote a substantial time of staff to training. The strengthening of
DIB's staff and advisory services has been aimed at achieving (in order of
priority): (i) better appraisal; (ii) more specific and efficient assistance
to SSI; and (iii) an improvement of DIB's economic role. The proposed program
is, therefore, a step in the process of strengthening DIB's institutional
set-up.  It should permit in future loans the negotiations with DIB of more
focused development objectives, especially with respect to DIB's sectoral
impact on industry.
E. Functions and Policies
3.15      DIB's objectives and functions were essentially inherited from the
SSPIS Unit of BOA. The primary function as stated in DIB's Policy Statement
is to promote and finance productive industrial enterprises 1/ mainly in
the private sector, including cooperatives, SSIs and artisans. There have
been no changes in the policy statement since the third Bank loan in 1978--the
principal features of which are as follows:
(a)  DIB's total financial exposure in loans, guarantees of any kind
and equity participation (all on a commitment basis) in any
single company shall normally be limited to 20% of DIB's
equity; and
(b)  DIB will not take an equity participation in any company in
excess of 25% of the company's equity, and DIB's total
equity participations shall not exceed its own equity;
(c)  DIB will generally limit its financing to enterprises with
a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 2:1. This limit may be
exceeded for hire-purchase operations, where up to 80% of
the project cost may be financed, and for SSI projects
depending on their merit;
(d) DIB's maximum debt/equity ratio shall be 6:1, with debt
defined to consist of short-term and long-term debt,
uncovered guarantees, and deposits excluding compen-
sating balances held by DIB as cash cover against loans. 2/
These financial covenants included in DIB's Policy Statement are considered to
be satisfactory. DIB has agreed to inform the Bank of any significant changes
1/   Industrial enterprises are meant to include those in processing and
manufacturing, agro-industries and tourism (essentially hotels and
tourist transportation).
2/   As mentioned in para. 5.22, DIB's debt/equity ratio under the proposed
loan is to be increased to 7:1. DIB expects to make appropriate amend-
ment to the policy statement in this respect.



- 17 -
to its Policy Statement, in sufficient time prior to adoption of the changes
proposed so as to enable the Bank to indicate if such changes would affect the
basis on which the Bank has made the loan.
3.16      While financing of industrial enterprises has been the principal
activity of DIB, it has recently been receiving applications for its assistance
in projects which relate essentially to purchase of equipment for professional
services such as those for medical clinics, dentistry, public accountants,
etc.  DIB and the Government consider such projects to be in the interest of
Egypt's development, and DIB plans to extend its assistance on a small scale
for such purposes, especially' to enterprises which cannot obtain suitable
financing for their projects.
3.17      In addition to the Policy Statement, under the first Bank loan
and in response to the Bank's request, DIB had formulated its "Strategy State-
ment" which included such matters as: (i) definition and target lending for
SSI; (ii) DIB's objectives regarding future staff increases; and (iii) DIB's
objectives regarding training. DIB consults the Bank prior to periodic
revisions of the Strategy Statement.
Financing of Public Sector Projects
3.18      DIB's assistance to pubLic sector enterprises has been limited to
financing of small and medium-size reconstruction and expansion projects or to
marginal financing of larger projects, supplementing budgetary allocations.
DIB's financing of public sector projects, although limited, often helps
expedite viable projects which fill important productive linkages or those
with export-potential. Through these operations DIB is also able to intro-
duce sound project evaluation techniques to the sector.
3.19      The Bank had agreed to an allocation of up to 50% under the first
IDA credit to DIB for public sector projects, reduced successively to 35%
under the second and 25% under the first Bank loan. Under the proposed loan,
DIB could utilize up to US$10.0 million (or 20% of the loan) for public sector
projects which meet the same criteria as under the previous Bank loan viz;
projects which are expected to export at least 20% of their products for
freely convertible currencies.
F. Operations
3.20      The appraisal functions are performed within three general depart-
ments.  The appraisal of short-term loans is undertaken by the General
Department for Credit Facilities, while medium and long-term loans and
foreign currency loans to borrowers other than SSI are handled by the General
Department for Term Lending. The responsibility for all SSI loans (local and
foreign) is now undertaken by a separate SSI General Department established in
1979. Most of the appraisal groundwork for short-term and SSI loans including
hire-purchase is undertaken at the branch level. DIB calculates economic
rates of return for all projects requiring financing over the individual free



- 18 -
limit (US$400,000 under DIB-III), and will continue to do so under the pro-
posed loan. Supervision of all loans is undertaken by the General Department
for Follow-Up. DIB aims to visit projects every three months while they are
under construction and about once a year thereafter, although this has not
always been possible in view of the increasing number of DIB's clients.
3.21       While there have been improvements since the first Bank loan, a
number of observations can be made with respect to DIB's operations:
(a)   Appraisal work.  In spite of serious progress since the
last Bank loan, DIB's staff remains somewhat inexperienced
in its appraisal work and shows particular difficulty in
assessing the market potential and the management of its
projects. Engineering and financial aspects are under
better control. We should expect significant improvements
as a result of DIB's recent training programs and the
assistance of the project advisor. Bank supervision mis-
sions will also continue to advise.
(b)   Supervision work.  In addition to training, the other main
issue was understaffing. With the recent increase in the
staff (and their continuing training) we can hope to see a
more thorough supervision and assistance role under the
proposed loan, especially in the SSI field.
(c)   Economic work.  So far, DIB has not taken its economic work
seriously enough due to lack of staff and the absence of a
qualified department head in this field. DIB is, however,
keen to play an economic role both in its appraisal work
to ensure that the projects it finances are sound but also
to define its role in various subsectors it finances
(priorities, potential for export, adequacy of Government
assistance, etc.). We can expect DIB to make progress
under this loan in acquiring some economic expertise.
IV. DIB'S OPERATIONS
A. Summary of Lending Operations
4.01       DIB's Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements since its establish-
ment in August 1976 to March 1979 are shown in Annex 1. Short-term loans in
local currency (mostly for export-financing and working capital) dominated
DIB's operations in the initial months of its establishment but decreased in
importance as DIB's term-lending increased steadily. Of the total approvals of
LE 48.0 million in 1978, short-term loans accounted for LE 12.6 million and
medium and long-term loans for LE 35.4 million. Foreign currency loans have
constituted 50% of total term lending approvals of LE 74.2 million since DIB's



- 19 -
establishment. DIB's guarantee operations (about LE 1.0 million a year) are
mainly for the execution of export or public procurement contracts awarded to
its borrowers, and hence involve only short-term commitments.
4.02       An analysis of DIB's medium and long-term loan approvals in 1977,
1978 and first three months of 1979 is shown in Annex 2. About 25% and 50% of
DIB's approvals were for loans of less than LE 100,000 and LE 500,000, respec-
tively. Average size of all of DIB's loans was around LE 50,000 in 1977 and
LE 54,000 in 1978. The principal subsectors benefiting from DIB's loans to
March 1979 were: hotel and tourism projects (23%), food processing (23%),
textiles (15%), minerals and engineering (12%), and building and construction
(8%). The emphasis on tourism projects was the result of priority accorded to
this sector in view of the potential and the assistance which several viable
tourism projects required in 1977/78 (DIB's predecessor, the SSPIS Unit of
BOA did not make any loans to tourism projects). 1/ In spite of the emphasis
on the tourism and food processing sectors, DIB's portfolio of outstanding
loans remains adequately diversified. Slightly more than half of DIB's term
loans approved to March 1979 were for new projects and loans for expansion/
modernization accounted for about 40% of term loans in 1978/79. Working
capital loans decreased from 26% in 1977 to about 10% of DIB total term loans
in 1978/79. Approximately 35% of DIB's loans are made to borrowers whose
total fixed assets do not exceed LE 500,000.
4.03      DIB has not made significant equity investments since its establish-
ment in 1976. Its present portfolio of equity holdings consists of an invest-
ment commitment of LE 1.0 million (LE 520,000 disbursed) in a joint venture
commercial bank with Bank of America and there are other insignificant invest-
ments amounting to LE 21,400. DIB's role as a promoter of projects is some-
what limited since most of DIB's customers hitherto have been sole proprietors,
closed partnerships or family enterprises, who are reluctant to form joint
stock companies and invite outside participants. Nevertheless, with the
greater emphasis on the role of the private sector in the future, DIB expects
to increase its activities as promoter of new ventures and plans to approve up
to LE 3 million in local currency in equity investment financing by end 1982.
B. Financial and Technical Assistance to SSIs
4.04      As indicated above a significant portion of DIB's lending operations
relate to loans to small and medium-scale enterprises. Definition of and
DIB's assistance to SSIs were more clearly established and formalized during
appraisal of the first Bank loan in 1977. Under that loan, DIB undertook to
target 20%-25% of its total term lending to SSIs defined as borrowers whose
fixed assets, excluding land and buildings did not exceed LE 150,000 (in 1977
1/   Currently DIB puts an informal ceiling of 25% of its term loan approvals
for tourism projects, in any one year. This is considered satisfactory.



- 20 -
prices). DIB has substantially met these targets; total term loans to SSIs
amounted to LE 5.5 million in 1977 and LE 7.0 million in 1978 representing
respectively, 21% and 20% of term lending in those years.
4.05      At about the same time as the first Bank loan DIB had obtained
a loan of US$8.75 million from the OPEC Special Fund to be onlent to SSIs.
Half of the loan was to be allocated for smaller SSIs with assets (excluding
land and buldings but including working capital) of less than LE 20,000 and
the other half to SSIs with assets of less than LE 100,000. The Bank is the
administrator of the loan, of which US$5.25 million had been committed by
December 31, 1979. While about 60% of the amount allocated for the larger SSI
has been utilized, approvals for the portion of smaller SSI has been slower
than expected partly because of difficulties in identifying suitable borrowers
under the more rigorous definition for small SSIs. In addition, until recently,
there were no clear procedures laid down for obtaining government approvals
and import licenses required by small projects. 1/ DIB, in fact was instru-
mental in instigating the appropriate government action to clarify the proce-
dures and thus facilitate processing of projects requiring financing of less
than LE 8,000. DIB now expects to utilize the remaining portion of the OPEC
Special Fund loan by mid 1980.
4.06      DIB intends to give a greater emphasis to its assistance to SSIs.
It has agreed with the Bank to target 30% of its annual term lending approvals
for SSI financing in 1980-81. Under the proposed loan the limit for fixed
assets (excluding land and buildings) will be increased to LE 200,000 (in 1980
prices).
4.07      DIB would also continue its efforts to identify and assist smaller
SSI borrowers. DIB has therefore agreed that, within the above mentioned 30%
SSI financing target, special emphasis would be given to smaller SSIs whose
total fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do not exceed LE 100,000 (in
current prices) and to allocate US$10.0 million of its total foreign currency
resources in 1980/81 to such smaller SSI.
Pilot Technical Assistance Program
4.08      Following the recommendations of the Bank's survey of SSI (Report -
Egypt-Survey of Small Scale Industries, dated December 2, 1977), the third
loan to DIB included a component for a pilot technical assistance scheme for
SSI. Under the scheme the Engineering and Indtustrial Design and Development
Center (EIDDC) was to commence providing extension services and engineering
consultancy to SSI and also organize training course in management develop-
ment for SSI including existing and potential clients of DIB. The Produc-
tivity and Vocational Training Department (PVTD) of the Ministry of Industry
1/   While GOFI (General Organization for Industrialization of the Ministry
of Industries) processed all investment proposals above LE 8,000, it did
not consider application for smaller projects and it was not clear
whether an approval by HIPCO (Handicraft Industries and Productive
Cooperative Organization) constituted the required Government approval.



- 21 -
was to conduct accelerated training for unskilled workers in specialized
trades such as turning, fitting, metal works, etc. DIB was to onlend
US$200,000 of the Bank loan to the Ministry of Industry to finance expatriate
advisors' costs and equipment required by EIDDC for the program and give its
assistance in implementing the scheme. The Government had agreed to finance
the local costs of EIDDC and PVTD, at the time of the third loan.
4.09      The technical assistance scheme has not yet been fully implemented
because of delays in making the necessary budgetary allocations for the local
costs and repayment of DIB's loans to EIDDC. The Bank has, however, obtained
renewed assurances from the Government, EIDDC and PVTD on the implementation
of the program. The budgetary allocations have now been made, the loan
agreement between DIB and Ministry of Industry signed, and EIDDC is in the
process of procuring the equipment and recruiting the consultants for the
scheme. PVTD has already organized a couple of accelerated training courses
and is expected to meet the targets set for the number of trainees for the
programs. Thus implementation of the pilot program is now underway and
results are expected during commitment of the proposed loan. DIB will also
follow the progress of the scheme closely and give any assistance it may be
called upon. The Bank will continue to monitor closely on the implementation
of the scheme.
DIB's Assistance to SSIs
4.10      As part of DIB's appraisal and supervision work it provides limited
technical assistance to its SSI clients. Project staff often guide and give
valuable advice on financial matters regarding borrowers' investment plans.
Engineers provide assistance in choice of equipment, technology and procurement
procedures; and during follow-up, assistance is given on matters such as
accounting, record-keeping, etc.
4.11       DIB's capability to reach more SSIs has been strengthened through
its new branch in Tanta (Lower Egypt). To give greater emphasis and better
coordinate this aspect of its operation, DIB has also established a separate
SSI Department at its Headquarters. The Department will process all small
loans (not exceeding US$250,000) and will thus cater essentially to SSI
borrowers. With the recent increase in the staff, the department now consists
of its manager and six officers which is considered satisfactory for present
and expected levels of operations. The staff of the department will receive
additional training gradually, in particular, through visits to institutions
abroad specialized in SSIs. In addition, to further strengthen the department
and provide on-the-job training to its staff, DIB is in the process of recruit-
ing an SSI advisor. The advisor who will be financed under the EEC grant
which DIB has received for the purpose, is expected to join DIB by September
1980.
Hire Purchase Operations
4.12       In order to assist smaller SSIs who do not qualify for DIB's loans
(often because of lack of adequate guarantees and securities) DIB finances



- 22 -
their requirements for equipment on a "hire-purchase" basis. Under this
procedure DIB provides a 5-year loan for up to 80% of the cost of the
machinery or equipment purchased but retains ownership until the beneficiary
repays the loan principal plus normal interest. Such hire-purchase operations
are confined to smaller SSI whose net worth is less than LE 20,000, and to a
maximum LE 10,000 (US$14,300) per operation financed. In 1978, DIB approved
176 hire-purchase operations for LE 1.2 million compared to 103 operations
for LE 0.6 million in 1977. Although most of the equipment thus financed is
imported but procured "off-the-shelf" from local suppliers, DIB has requested
and the Bank has agreed that proceeds of the Bank Loan be available to finance
the estimated foreign exchange cost of such hire purchase operation in which
the equipment is imported directly. DIB will ensure that beneficiaries of
Bank funds bear the foreign exchange risk between the LE and US$.
C. Operations Outside Cairo-Alexandria and DIB's Branches
4.13      DIB's lending operations are heavily concentrated in Cairo-Alexandria;
loans to areas outside Cairo-Alexandria accounted for less than 30% in amount
and 8% in number of term loans in 1977/78. This reflects the fact that 80% of
Egypt's industrial capacity itself is located within the metropoli of Cairo
and Alexandria. DIB is nevertheless conscious of the need to assist potential
borrowers and encourage new projects in other regions where industrial activity
is mostly in small to medium scale enterprises.
4.14      In recognition of this need, DIB in early 1979 opened its first
branch outside Cairo/Alexandria in Tanta in Lower Egypt. Within the first few
months of its establishment the branch undertook about 100 operations, catering
essentially to SSI clients in the region. There are encouraging indications
that the branch's operations will expand rapidly and DIB can have a significant
impact in the region over the next few years.
4.15      In order to reach areas not covered by its existing branches,
DIB intends to intensify its efforts by more regular staff missions to such
regions. For this purpose, DIB is to procure mobile vans (financed by USAID)
which would enable the staff to initiate commercial banking services in
addition to processing applications for term financing and providing limited
technical assistance, to clients in the areas visited. In addition, DIB has
acquired a site in the new City of Tenth of Ramadan (an industrial enclave
outside Cairo) and will establish a branch there as soon as infrastructure
facilities in the city are completed, probably in 1981. DIB's priorities
for the future in this regard are to further strengthen the Tanta Branch and
increase its operations in 1980/1981 and to open another Branch in Upper Egypt
during late 1981/early 1982. Overall, DIB plans are considered satisfactory
and acceptable.



- 23 -
D. Bank Financed Operations of DIB
4.16       The two IDA credits (of US$40 million) and the first Bank loan
(US$40 million) have been the principal source of DIB's foreign currency
resources since its establishment.  The two IDA credits were fully com-
mitted in March 1976 and June 1978 and as of January 1980 loans for US$32.0
million had been approved by the Bank for financing under the first Bank loan.
Bank/IDA funds have financed 76% of DIB's foreign currency approvals through
March 1979. A project completion report for the first two credits is sched-
uled for FY81 following the completion of disbursements under the credits
during the current fiscal year. No project performance audit has yet been
undertaken by Operations Evaluation Department.
4.17       Projects for a total financing of US$72 million had been approved
under the Bank/IDA loans by January 1980; 14 projects (US$17 million) in the
public and 177 projects (US$55 miLlion) in the private sector. These proj-
ects induced an estimated investment of LE 128 million, and were expected to
create about 8,600 jobs. Financial rates of return on the projects financed
have ranged between 10% and 32%. Seventeen projects requiring total Bank
financing of US$13 million had estimated returns of more than 25%. Economic
rates of return as estimated by DIB for larger projects above the free limit
(currently US$400,000) have ranged between 10% and 40% ( a minimum rate of 10%
was required under the previous loans). Of the 34 projects under the three
loans for which such rates were calculated, 21 had ERR of more than 20% and
only four showed a return of 10-15%. DIB will continue to calc:ulate and
demonstrate a minimum 12% ERR for all projects submitted to the Bank above the
proposed free limit of US$650,000. In addition, DIB will be required to
calculate and demonstrate a minimum of 12% ERR for projects to be financed
under the proposed loan that are below the free limit if their investment cost
exceeds LE 800,000.
Free Limit Under the Bank Loan
4.18       DIB's individual free limit under the Bank/IDA loans has been
increased, from US$250,000 under the second IDA credit in 1975 to US$400,000
under the first Bank loan in 1978. Given the satisfactory progress made by
DIB in its appraisal procedures, the acceptable quality of its portfolio,
and taking into account the inflation in the prices of imports since 1975, an
increase in the individual free limit to US$650,000 is recommended under
the proposed loan. There would be no aggregate free limit. Considering
the greater emphasis on SSI lending operations by DIB it is estimated that
about 50% of the proposed loan will be utilized for 20 to 25 projects over the
free limit.



- 24 -
Employment Effect and Cost per Job
4.19      The first three loans to DIB financed 191 projects with a total cost
of LE 127.6 million and created about 8,600 jobs, indicating an average cost
per job of LE 14,800 (or US$21,200). The overall average, however, conceals a
significant disparity in the employment effect of large and small projects.
The capital-labor ratio in projects whose total cost was less than LE 200,000
was about US$5,000 compared to US$26,000 for projects whose cost exceeded LE
200,000. It is not possible to estimate the number of jobs expected to be
created through the proposed loan since DIB will be able to utilize resources
other than the Bank funds for financing SSI projects. 1/ However, it is clear
that this project will enhance the employment creating effect of DIB's overall
activities because (a) the proportion of DIB's financing devoted to SSI is
expected to increase from about 22% in 1977-1979 to 30% in 1980-81; 2/ and (b)
the capital intensity of SSI projects is much lower than that of larger
projects; indeed, based on data in the previous three DIB loans, SSI projects
are expected to create five times more jobs per dollar invested than the
larger projects.
V. DIB'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, RESOURCES AND PROSPECTS
A. Financial Performance and Position
Profitability and Financial Position
5.01      DIB's audited financial statements for 1976-1978 and unaudited
results of 1979 are available in the Project File. DIB has achieved a satis-
factory level of profitability in the first two and half years of its opera-
tions. Operating profits (i.e. profits before taxes and provisions) in 1977,
the first full year of its operations, amounted to LE 1.3 million representing
12.9% of DIB's share capital and 5.5% of average total assets. Operating
profits increased by 65% to 2.1 million in 1978 equal to 21.2% of share
capital. The increase was the result both of an increase in DIB's portfolio
and a steady increase in its lending rates from 8%-9% at the end of 1976 to
10%-11% by end of 1978. DIB's spread on its principal sources of foreign
borrowings (Bank and USAID) has averaged 3.0%-3.5% through 1978. As for local
resources, in addition to its capital, DIB has obtained a line of credit of LE
27.0 million from the CBE at a cost of 6.5% p.a. DIB also obtains interest
1/   Defined as those promoted by enterpreneurs whose fixed assets, excluding
land and buildings, do not exceed LE 200,000.
2/   Including the foreign exchange devoted to small SSIs which is projected
to almost double from US$5.25 million in 1978-79 to US$10.0 million over
1980-81.



- 25 -
free deposits from its clients, including compensating balances of between
10%-20% of the amount of foreign loans. This constituted approximately 15% of
its local currency resources in 1977/78 and thus contributed significantly to
its profitability. Administrative expenses have averaged an acceptable level
of 2% of total assets.
5.02      DIB's total assets increased from LE 16.6 million in 1976 to LE 29.9
million in December 1977 incorporating the IDA financed loans (and correspond-
ing liabilities) of LE 5.3 million transferred from BOA in March 1977.
Further increases in assets (of 54%) to LE 46.2 million by December 1978 and
to LE 57.2 million by June 1979, were in line with expectations at the time
of appraisal of the third Bank loan. As of June 1979, 15% of I)IB's total
assets consisted of short-term loans, whereas foreign currency and local
currency term-loans outstanding accounted for 28% and 52% respectively of its
total assets at that date.
5.03      Local currency borrowings, including deposits from customers,
reached LE 26.4 million by June 1979, and foreign currency debts LE 15.9
million. Bank and IDA funds represented 39% of DIB's total outstanding debt
and 91% of foreign currency debts outstanding as of March 1979. DIB's total
debt/equity ratio increased from 1.7:1 in 1977 to 4.1:1 by June 1979 and
remained well within the agreed limit of 6:1 defined under the third Bank loan
(para 5.22).
Taxes, Provisions for Losses and Dividends
5.04      Under its statutes, and current CBE regulations DIB can retain 25%
of its annual net profits as legal and general reserves. The balance of net
income is to be distributed as dividends, 75% to the CBE and 25% to the
employees. In the initial years DIB felt it prudent to keep the distribution
of income to a minimum. In order to achieve this within the legal framework,
DIB in 1977, with the approval of the CBE, allocated LE 725,000 to provisions
for doubtful debts so as to leave a taxable income of LE 511,000 equal to
taxes on income and thus leaving no net income for that year. In 1978, a
further amount of LE 1.1 million was allocated to provisions to leave a net
income of LE 340,000 for distribution. Allocations to provisions are thus a
means to retain profits as much as to provide for possible losses. In view of
the fact that DIB's loans are generally well secured, the total provisions of
LE 2.4 million as of June 1979 could be in excess of DIB's requirements, if
these were based on a case-by-case assessment of its doubtful loans. However,
considering DIB's increasing exposure in smaller and riskier SSI projects, its
conservative provisions policy is acceptable.
Arrears and Quality of Loan Portfolio
5.05      DIB's portfolio of loans outstanding is adequately diversified.  As
of December 1978, loan portfolio of LE 46.1 million consisted of over 2,100
loans outstanding. Twenty-five percent of the total amount outstanding was
against public sector enterprises, 52% in SSI projects (of which 14.6% in
short-term loans), and 23% in medium to large private enterprises. Sectoral



- 26 -
distribution of the portfolio was as follows: 26% in textiles, 14% in food
processing, 13% in engineering, 12% in chemicals, 11% in tourism, and the
balance in miscellaneous activities.
5.06       As of December 31, 1978, arrears of interest and principal in excess
of three months on 164 loans amounted to LE 1.3 million (i.e., 2.9% of loans
outstanding) and affected 8.7% of DIB's total loan portfolio.  This represented
a slight improvement over the situation at the end of 1977. Arrears, however,
increased considerably in the first quarter of 1979. As of March 31, 1979,
352 loans had arrears of more than three months amounting in total to LE 2.7
million representing 5.4% of total loans and affecting 22% of the loan port-
folio. LE 1.0 million (or 39%) of the total arrears were against a large
textile project which was experiencing severe difficulties. The project
commenced limited operations in 1976--two years behind schedule--because of
its inability to secure sufficient export market. These problems have now
been substantially resolved and the project is now operating at 75% capacity.
DIB expects that its loans will now be repaid according to schedule and no
losses will result. In addition, two large projects in arrears with a port-
folio outstanding of LE 2 million are still under construction, having
suffered delays in implementation.
5.07      A review of 24 accounts with loans outstanding of more than LE
100,000 and in arrears as of March 1979, covering about three-fourths of
amounts in arrears at that date showed that the single most important factor
for the increase in arrears in 1979 was the financial difficulties of DIB's
clients resulting from the Government's decision to apply the parallel market
rate to all foreign exchange transactions instead of the previously under-
valued official rate. The result of the decision in effect was a 43% devalua-
tion of the Egyptian pound from LE 0.40 = $1.00, to LE 0.70 = $1.00. The
decision which was implemented as from January 1, 1979, was announced in
advance towards the end of 1978 with the result that several borrowers carry-
ing the foreign exchange risk prepaid all or part of their foreign currency
borrowings prior to 1979, inducing cash shortages in the projects concerned.
The projects in arrears, however, remain basically sound and the difficulties
of the borrowers appear to be of a temporary nature. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment, as a special concession to DIB clients, subsequently agreed that foreign
currency loans contracted with DIB prior to January 1, 1979, would be repaid
at the previous official rate. This alleviated the difficulties of several of
the borrowers who made partial prepayments to DIB. The situation had already
improved considerably by June 1979 when the number of loans affected by
arrears of more than 3 months was reduced to 257, and total arrears to LE 1.6
million affecting 11% of its loan portfolio. DIB has adequate security on its
loans. As noted earlier it has followed conservative policies regarding
provisions and its possible losses are well covered by such provisions amount-
ing to LE 2.4 million (4.4% of loans outstanding) at June 30, 1979. DIB's loan
portfolio can be considered sound.
Audit
5.08      DIB's financial statements for 1977 and 1978 have been audited by Z.
and H. Hassan & Co., a reputable firm of chartered accountants in Egypt



- 27 -
associated with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co. The firm was appointed
as auditors with the Bank's agreement, and its auditing performance has been
satisfactory.
B. Projected Operations, Resources and Prospects
Operations
5.09      Approvals, commitments and disbursements projected by DIB for the
years 1979-1983 are available in the Project File. Foreign currency approvals
which amounted to US$31 million in 1978 and US$18.4 million for the three
quarters to September 1979, are expected to increase by about 20% to reach
US$52 million by 1981. In comparison, DIB's approvals doubled in 1977 to
reach US$30 million and increased to only US$31 million in 1978 due mainly to
lack of untied resources until the DIB - III loan became effective in August
1978. Total foreign currency loan approvals for the years 1979-1981 would be
US$131 million. 1/ In the context of the current increase in demand for
investment funds from the private sector, and the likelihood of its continua-
tion over the next 2-3 years, these expectations seem attainabLe by DIB. They
are also supported by DIB's current pipeline of projects; as of March 1979,
DIB had outstanding applications in foreign currency loans for LE 120 million
(US$180 million) of which projects for LE 36 million (US$25 million) were under
active appraisal. A moderate growth rate of 10% has been assumed for foreign
currency approvals beyond 1981, implying a levelling off in real terms. Local
currency approvals, which reached LE 16.7 million in the first nine months of
1979 compared to LE 17.8 million in 1978, are expected to increase at about
10% per year to reach LE 21.5 million by 1981. These are acceptable in view
of DIB's past performance and within its capabilities to appraise and finance.
As indicated earlier (para 4.03) DIB also expects to approve equity invest-
ments of about LE 3 million by 1982.
Resource Position and Prospects
(a) Foreign Currency
5.10      As of May 1, 1979, foreign currency resources available to DIB for
new approvals amounted to US$38 million made up as follows: US$24 million from
the third Bank loan, US$8 million under the USAID loan and US$6 million from
the OPEC Special Fund.
5.11      As mentioned earlier, the balance of the OPEC Special Fund loan
is mostly for very small SSI. The USAID funds have been moving very slowly
1/   At the time of appraisal mission (May 1979), DIB had approved foreign
currency loans of US$6 million leaving US$125 million to be approved
during the remaining months of 1979, 1980 and 1981.



- 28 -
because of the requirement of US procurement for its utilization. Thus, the
principal resources available for the bulk of DIB's foreign currency opera-
tions was the US$24 million under the third Bank loan.
5.12      While DIB's business prospects have improved significantly, the
situation as regards its expected resources has worsened lately; because of
Egypt's strained relations with the Arab countries the US$25 million loan from
the Arab Fund, which was negotiated in 1977, failed to materialize. A grant
of US$5.0 million which the Islamic Development Bank had approved for DIB's
equity investments has also been cancelled. The principal foreign resources
which DIB expects in the near fdture are (i) a loan of US$18.0 million equi-
valent from the European Investment Bank (EIB) signed recently and expected to
be effective by the end of March 1980; and (ii) US$6-8 million from the
African Development Bank (ADB) expected in the latter half of 1980. This
has caused DIB to request Bank assistance sooner than was expected at the time
of the third Bank loan.
5.13      DIB's foreign currency resource prospects vis-a-vis its requirements
for the period May 1, 1979, to end of 1981 are as follows: total foreign
currency approvals 1/ over the period are expected to be about US$125 million
(see para 5.09). Taking into account the US$38 million available from exist-
ing loans and the US$24-26 million expected from EIB and ADB, there would be a
resource gap of about US$61 to US$63 million for the period.
5.14      While DIB is looking to the Bank to finance a substantial portion of
its resource gap over the next two years or so, it is conscious of the fact
that it should further broaden its resource base. In particular it has now
reached a stage where it could begin to mobilize foreign resources from
foreign commercial banks and/or export credits from Egypt's major trading
partners. DIB has become better known to foreign commercial banks and their
representatives in Egypt. DIB is seriously studying several offers received
for such financing and expects to contract about US$5 million in new commer-
cial loans by 1981.
5.15      DIB would also have access to part of the funds under a proposed IDA
Credit for Agro-industries which- is scheduled for Board presentation in
March 1980 and expected to be effective by the fall of 1980 (i.e. by about the
same time as the proposed loan). The proposed credit of US$45 million includes
a US$25 million component to finance new and expansion of existing facilities
for primary processing, marketing and distribution of basic food stuff and
other agricultural commodities. This component is to be channelled through a
commercial bank, the specialized bank for agriculture and DIB. The commercial
and specialized banks are likely to make greater use of the free limit and
simplified procedures, leaving DIB with the larger and more complex subloans.
US$6-8 million of DIB's approvals through 1981 are likely to be financed under
the proposed Credit.
1/   For practical purposes (not legal) DIB's approvals have the same effect
as commitments and therefore the estimate of the resource gap on the
basis of approval is the same as if it were on the basis of commitments.



- 29 -
5.16      On the above basis, a Bank loan of US$50.0 million to finance about
57% of DIB's foreign currency resource requirements over 1980-81 would be
justified as follows:
US$ Million
Available as of May 1, 1979:                             $38.0
New Approvals - May-December 1979                       ($30.0)
1980-81                               ($95.0)
Resource Gap:                                           ($87.0)
To be financed by:
EIB                                                    $18.0
AfDB                                                    $8.0
Commercial Credits                                      $5.0
IDA                                                     $6.0
DIB-IV                                                 $50.0
$87.0
(b) Local Currency
5.17      Apart from its share capital (recently increased to LE 15.0 million)
and its retained earnings and provisions (LE 2.8 million), DIB has, hitherto
financed its local currency term lending through a 10-year CBE line of credit
of LE 27.0 million, of which LE 25.0 million had been utilized by December
31, 1979. In January 1980, the Government increased the existing line of
credit to LE 47.0 million and in addition approved a loan of LE 15.0 for its
local currency lending to SSIs. Since DIB's sub-loans in local currency
generally have repayment terms shorter than the repayments due to the Central
Bank it is able to roll over these funds. 1/ With these resources, DIB has
sufficient local resources to cover its requirements for 1980/81.  The Govern-
ment has also undertaken to make available to DIB resources for its local
currency operations for the next five years.
5.18      DIB's local currency requirements over 1979-1982 and the financing
thereof is thus expected to evolve as follows: (in LE millions)
1/   And hence, DIB's forecasts of resource needs and uses of local currency
are based on disbursements, rather than approvals.



- 30 -
1979/1980           1981/1982
Loan and Equity Disbursements                          59.5                 72.1
Debt Repayments                                         1.0                  5.4
Total Requirements:                              60.5                 77.5
Financed by:
Available cash balance                            1.0                  1.4
CBE I line of credit                              6.6                 14.8
Capital Increase                                  5.0                   -
Additional Deposits                               2.9                  3.9
Internal Cash Generation:
(a)  loan collection                           43.3                 53.9
(b)  profits, etc.                              1.7                  3.5
Total Resources:                                 60.5                 77.5
5.19       In order to reduce its reliance on Government funds, DIB also needs
to explore the possibility of mobilizing other local resources, particularly
from the bond market or borrowings from financial institutions. However, in
the past, with DIB's lending interest rates of around 10%, such borrowings
which command an interest rate of 8-9% did not allow DIB an adequate spread,
necessary in its initial years. Although with the recent increase in DIB's
rate to 12% the situation has improved somewhat, in the very limited Egyptian
bond market DIB is still unable to compete with large well-established com-
mercial banks which in addition to interest, often offer other incentives.
Financial institutions (such as Insurance Companies) are reluctant to lend
long-term in the light of generally increasing interest rates in Egypt. DIB,
nevertheless, intends to closely follow developments in this respect and
expects to start mobilization of such resources at the earliest opportunity,
possibly in 1981/1982.
C. Projections of Profitability and Financial Position
P,rojected Income Statements and Balance Sheets
5.20       Projected income statements and balance sheets for the years 1979-
1983 reflecting the above forecasts of operations and resources, are available
in the Project File. Average spread on DIB's borrowed funds is expected to
increase from about 3.6% in 1978 to 4.3% by 1982 while administrative expenses
as-a percentage of average assets would decrease from 2% to 1.5%. This,
combined with growth in its operations should increase DIB's operating income
from LE 2.7 million in 1979 (i.e. 26% of average equity and 4.8% of average
total assets) to LE 7.8 million by 1983 (33% of average equity and 4.5% of
average total assets). DIB intends to continue its current practice of
retaining part of its income as provisions in addition to legal and general



- 31 -
reserves. Approximately 38% of operating income over the next five years will
be retained, and 32% paid in taxes, leaving 30% to be distributed as statutory
dividends to CBE and employees. This level of retained earnings would be
lower compared to the 50%-60% of operating income retained during 1977-78 when
allocations to provisions and reserves were unusually high (para 5.04), but
is considered adequate.
5.21      Total assets are forecast to increase from LE 57 million in June
1979 to LE 191 million by December 1983. Most of the increase in assets is to
be financed by additional debt which would increase from LE 42.4 million as of
June 1979 to LE 150 million by end of 1983. Foreign debt outstanding should
increase from LE 15.9 million to LE 115.0 million over the same period in
particular as existing undisbursed borrowings of about US$85 million are drawn
down first. Bank/IDA funds as a percentage of DIB's foreign outstanding debt
should decrease from 94% in 1978 to 50% by 1982.
Debt/Equity Ratio
5.22      Total debt (i.e., including short-term borrowings) which DIB can
incur was limited to six times its equity under the third Bank loan. DIB's
debt in the past has remained weLl within this limit; the ratio at June 30,
1979, was 4.1:1. In order to finance its expected increase of operations, DIB
and the Government agreed to increase the share of capital by LE 5.0 million
(to LE 15.0 million) which was fully paid in by December 1979. DIB's current
projections indicate that its total debt will reach the present limit by about
late 1981. In view of the satisfactory financial status of DIB and to enable
it a greater debt leverage, the Bank has agreed to increase the limit on the
debt/equity ratio to 7:1.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Justification and Objectives
6.01      The private industrial sector in Egypt until recentLy had received
inadequate attention. However, the needs of the sector for replacement and
modernization of equipment are widespread and the scope for economic develop-
ment and expansion are substantial. Recent government policies favoring
investment by the private sector in industries, the increase in approvals by the
Government of industrial projects and a generally more favorable investment
environment are reflected in a considerable improvement in DIB's business
prospects. DIB, as virtually the only source of term-financing for small and
medium scale enterprises in Egypt, has a critical role to play in the cur-
rent environment. DIB will also continue its small but significant role in
financing worthy public sector enterprises. Bank assistance through a fourth
loan is thus both justified and timely.
6.02      The project's emphasis on assistance to SSI would have major social
and economic benefits, both in terms of employment and output. In addition to



- 32 -
the financial assistance, SSI will also benefit from the technical and mana-
gerial assistance which DIB will begin to provide. Thus DIB is an appropriate
channel for further Bank supported financial and technical assistance to SSI,
through the implementation of the pilot technical assistance scheme, and an
increased role for DIB in the SSI sector.
6.03      Through the proposed fourth loan, the Bank would also continue
its institution building efforts towards the objective of making DIB more
responsive to the needs of the private industrial sector. These efforts
commenced in 1973 under the first IDA credit to BOA and continued through the
Bank's subsequent assistance in setting up DIB and developing appropriate
procedures and criteria for project appraisal and supervision, staff recruit-
ment and training programs. DIB, through the years of its association with
the Bank, has grown steadily in confidence and competence; and under the
fourth loan, will continue to reach out to new customers by means of new
branches outside the Cairo/Alexandria area, as well as begin to take the first
steps to mobilize new domestic and international sources of financing in order
to further broaden its resource base.
6.04      The project objectives for the proposed second Bank loarn to DIB
can therefore be summarized as follows:
(a) Resources for Industries. The loan will provide the external
resources needed to meet an increasing demand for DIB's
financing as reflected in its growing pipeline of project
applications.
(b) Institutional Strengthening. The Bank's efforts towards
the objective of establishing a sound development bank in
Egypt commenced in 1973 under the first two IDA credits to
BOA and continued with the first loan to DIB upon its
establishment in 1976. Under the proposed loan, the Bank
would continue these efforts.
(c) Assistance to SSIs. A greater emphasis on financial support
through DIB to SSI is in line with the recommendations of
the Bank's survey of SSI in Egypt (Report No. 1818-EGT of
December 2, 1977), as well as the Government's policies in
this regard. In addition to provision of resources under
the proposed loan, DIB is to strengthen its capabilities to
provide greater technical assistance to SSI.
B. Project Risks
6.05      The risks associated with this project appear to be manageable.
They are closely related to the objectives which have been mentioned above,
namely that: (i) DIB will be strengthened institutionally to play the role
envisaged for it; and (ii) DIB will have significant impact on the SSI sub-
sector.



- 33 -
(a) Institutional-building. Bank's loans, as well as USAID
financing, have focused on technical assistance through
advisors and training agencies. In this respect, the risk
is related to the personalities and qualifications of the
individuals involved. USAID and the Bank are making a very
special effort to ensure high quality in advisory services
and are monitoring progress closely. The top management in
DIB is fully convinced of the need for a formal program of
advice and training; it will continue to maintain a very
open and frank dialogue with the Bank on this question. On
that basis, the risks appear manageable.
(b) Assistance to SSI. In this respect there are two risks.
The first one is entirely within DIB's control and relates
to DIB's effectiveness to serve its clients according to
their needs. This is part of the general issue of strength-
ening DIB as an institution and of creating an efficient SSI
Department as described in para 4.11. That risk is accept-
able. The other risk, where DIB is likely to have little
influence, relates to the establishment of the technical
assistance scheme with the Government, described in paras
4.08-4.09. The difficulties encountered in the past seem
to have been overcome, but much depends on the goodwill of
the agencies involved and the support of officials. While
we plan to monitor the progress closely, we must realize
that the Bank has less leverage in this field than with
matters related directly to DIB.
C. The Loan
6.06      A Bank loan of US$50.0 million to finance the foreign cost component
of projects assisted by DIB over 1980/81 is recommended. Proceeds of the loan
would be onlent at a minimum rate of 11% (para 2.12). The loan will finance
100% of the cost of direct imports of equipment. The final date for submis-
sion of projects under the loan would be June 30, 1982 and the closing date
December 31, 1984. Amortization of the loan is proposed to be the aggregate
of the amortization of the individual subloans which will not exceed 15 years
including suitable grace periods of not more than 3 1/2 years.
6.07      Agreements and understandings reached with DIB and the Government
under the loan include the standard requirements for a DFC loan:
(i) the loan would be utilized mainly for projects promoted
by domestic private entrepreneurs, including joint-
venture projects approved under Law 43;
(ii) DIB may utilize up to 20% of the loan (US$10 million) for
projects in the public sector provided at least 20% of
the output of such projects is expected to be exported
for freely convertible currencies (para. 3.19);



- 34 -
(iii) DIB would allocate at least 30% of its term lending approvals
in 1980 and 1981 to SSI projects defined as those promoted
by borrowers whose total fixed assets, excluding land and
buildings do not exceed LE 200,000 in 1980 prices (para
4.06);
(iv) of its total foreign currency approvals in 1980/81, DIB
will allocate at least US$10.0 million for projects pro-
moted by sponsors whose fixed assets, excluding land
and buildings do not exceed LE 100,000 in 1980 prices
(para 4.07);
(v) the individual free limit under the loan would be US$650,000
(para 4.18);
(vi) DIB would calculate economic rates of return for all projects
submitted for Bank financing above the free limit and for
all projects whose total cost exceeds LE 800,000. A minimum
ERR of 12% will be required for financing of such projects
under the loan(para 4.17);
(vii)  DIB's total short and long-term debt and guarantees outstanding
will not exceed 7.0 times its equity (para 5.22); and
(viii) as under the previous Bank loan, the foreign exchange
risk between the Egyptian Pound and US Dollar will be borne
by the sub-borrower and that between the US$ and currencies
of disbursement by the Government (para 2.12).



EGYPT DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Summary of Operations  -  Aug. 1976 - March 1979
(LE 000)
1976 (Aug-Dec)           1977                    1978                      1979 (Jan.-March)
No.   Amt.               No.    Amt.             No.    Amt.               No.    Amt.
Approvals
Short-term Loans
(Local Currency)            108    5,810             193   10,139             218   12,626              66    2,886
Medium & Long-term Loans:
Foreign Currency              9    2,499               64   11,808             89   18,037               17    4,587
Local Currency              178    2,777             455   14,413             566   17,291              145    2,737
187    5,276             519   26,221            655   35,328              162    7,324
Committments
Short-term Loans
(Local Currency)            107    4,787             221    7,542             162    6,553              48    1,734        Lu
Medium & Long-Term Loans:
Foreign Currency              4    1,615               65    9,570             72   12,924               12    1,090
Local Currency              147    2,075             439   10,072             525   14,366              149    2,233
151    3,690             504   19,642            597   27,290              161    3,323
Disbursements
Medium & Term-Loans:
Foreign Currency                    1,082                    3,860                   5,776                     3,590
Local Currency                      1,496                    9,174                  13,068                     2,577
2,578                   13,034                  18,844                     6,167
Letters of Guarantees                                              893                      959
M
m
EMENA/IDF
July 1979



- 36 -                                                              ANNEX II
EGYPT DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Analysis of Term-Lending Approvals  -  Jan. 1977 - March 1979
(LE 000's)
1977                                   1978                                 1979 (Jan.-March)
No.     Amount   7%                   No.      Amount    x                  No.      Amount    7
1. By Size of Loana
LE       1- 16,000                    352     1,456      6                  431      2,064       6                115         600      8
LE 16,001- 51,000                      51     1,319       5                   97     2,723       8                  20        642      9
LE 51,001-100,000                      57     3,991    15                     49     3,869    11                    13        903    12
LE 100,000 - 500,000                   42     6,652    25                     59      9,696    27                    9     2,363    32
Over LE 500,000                        17    12,803    49                     19    16,976    48                     5     2,816    39
5ik    26,226   100                    655    35,328   100                   162      7,324   100
...    .. .       ...                  ...                                           ......   --
2. By Sub-Sectors
Pubaic Sector                           7     7,063    27                      5     4,362    12                    -          -
Private Sector: SSI's                445      5,462   '21                    549     6,963    20                  137      1,331    18
Private Sector:  Other                 67    13,696    52                     97    23,856    68                   23      5,957    81
Cooperatives                           -          -                            4        147    -                    2          36     1
519    26,221   100                   655    35,328   100                   162      7,324   100
3. By Term & Loans
1 -  3 year:                      166        572      2                  179        457      1                  -         -       -
3.1 -  5 years                      253      4,257    16                   332      6,591     19                  21         88      1
5.1 - 10 years                       91    13,983    54                    135    21,861    62                   126      4,061     56
more than 10 years                     9      7,409    28                     9     6,419    18                   15      3,175    43
519    26,221   100                    655    35,328   100                   162     7,324   100
4.  By Size of Fixed Assets
of Borrowers
Less than LE 50,000                    364     2,342       9                 464      2,895       8                126         979    13
LE 50,001  -  100,000                   47     1,192      4                    44        973      3                   7        158      2
LE 100,001  -  170,000                  35     1,867       7                   42     2,765       8                   2         70      1
LE 170,001  -  500,000                  34     4,212    16                     57      5,324    15                   11        873    12
LE 500,001 --  1.0 million              20     5,431    21                     17     2,846       8                   8     1,673    23
Over LE 1.0 million                     19    11.172    43                     31    20,525    58                     8     3,571    49
519    26,221   100                   655    35,328   100                   162      7,324   100
5.  By Industrial Sub-Sector
Food Processing                         35     4,442    17                     55     9,468    27                   13      1,989    27
Textiles                               109     3,259    13                    108     6,539    18                    23        519      7
Building and Construction                8      2,536    10                    27      1,791      5                   4        804    11
Tourism and Hotels                      36     7,853    30                     37      6,198    17                    9     2,068    28
Printing and Paper                      24     1,435       6                   24        971      3                   2        282      4
Mineral and Engineering                193      3,750    14                   225      3,983    11                   61        447      6
Chenicals                               46     1,952       7                  49      2,333       7                  8        311       5
Wood Industries                         13         53    -                     68      2,427      7                  25         97      1
Leather                                 20        356      1                   23        290      1                   9        142      2
Other                                   35        585      2                   39      1,328      4                   8        665      9
519    26,221   100                   655    35,328   100                   162      7,324   100
6. By Geographical Location
Cairo Zone                           241    14,793    57                    218    18,608    52                    59      2,430    33
Alexandria Zone                       182     5,570    21                    218     4,999    14                   49      1,821    25
Lower Egypt                            58     1,467      6                  172      6,353    18                   43      1,331     18
Upper Egypt                            29     4,006    15                     40     3,744    11                   10      1,735    24
Canal Zone                              9       385      1                     7     1,624      5                    1          7    -
519    26,221   100                    655    35,328   100                  162      7,324   100
= ......      ---                  ---_.... =_..= =   .. 
7. By Purpose & Loans
Land & Bldga.                          54     5,163    20                     61    11,623    33                    -         -       -
Machinery & Eouipment                 235    13,940    53                    312    20,633    58                    29      5,880    80
Working Capitol                       214     6,838    26                    272      3,026      9                  81        811    11
Others                                 16        280     1                    10         46    -                   52        633      9
519    26,221   100                   655    35,328   100                   162      7,324   100
8. By Type of Project
New Projects                         205    13,839    53                      76    18,430    57                    17     3,748    51
Expansion/Modernization              100      5,544    21                   307    13,872    43                    64      2,765    38
Working Capitol                       214      6,838    26                   272      3,026     10                  81        811    11
519    26,221   100                   655    35,328   100                    [62     7,324   100
9. By Jobs Created in Projects
1 -  9  Jobs                        261      1,232      5                  375      2,186      6                  97      1,086    15
10 - 24  Jobs                         67      1,579      6                  114      2,887      8                  25        356       5
25 - 49  Jobs                          51     2,389      9                    68     3,591    10                   15      1,544    21
50 - 99  Jobs                          94     4,138    16                    42      5,881    17                   12      1,651    22
Over 100  Jobs                         46    16,883    64                     56    20,783    59                    13     2,687    37
519    26,221   100                    655    35,328   100                   162     7,324   100
EMENA/ IDF
July 1979



Annex III
- 37 -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1. Audited Income Statements and Balance Sheet, 1976-1978
2. Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursments 1980-1983
3. Projected Income Statement and Balance Sheet, 1980-1983
4.  Data on Sub-projects financed under Credits 412-UAR,
576-EGT and Loan 1533-EGT
5. DIB's Policy Statement






IBRD 14925
TURKE Y          .                                                                                                                                                  FEBRUARY 1980
Los,'~ r~             RAO
('   _4   L*tE3gri AWR AO i                                   ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
3 i -9 J~~"UCOIDAN S
I A. R ( WW    SNE4>l'DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
- I 9 YU     EGYPT\-  
L I 8 I A    GYP  S AU0 D I                                          BRANCH  LOCATIONS
AS A DIA
' F u--g- --R
CU A           U                                                                                                     1 0            290             300
;   t  /  MEARNS                                                                 KILOMETERS
.,ETHIOPIA    I
-  / I    *      D18 H*odquortrs
A  Mediturrat7eatn                           SeaG                                                           113 /   0i18D Brnches
( q<  _-  S           \ InItIrnotionol Airpots
I.  4        DomeRstic Airpwrts
Al.xondr                                            Soid Y                                       *       Capital City
?          tfl E 0   E   \    \    o0  Cities and Tonns
To0to  ,>         cq)lsrroilh' ----    Riens
-----------                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadis
\3to ,  ~' t    -;  -    Inme,nationml B-Zodaries
1                   , ~~~~~~' ~~oottlrr,__ .Q    CAIRO                                                   Se               
/   '            ,___ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G   Hel-Q   SL),                                              g\    
-,t  /       ,  Depresi-o
W  E S T E R NI mmy
2      ')            +                             a         ~~~~~~~~~~S A U D I
efi |  A X                   \       H.rghod     t 2A  R A  B I A
                   ~~D E S E R T                                                                                      uc                    
I                                                                                                                                                                      0-A
jrh. -up h. b..np,p-otd bye f.
W., woAB-k. , ffel hWiWy fr,XeNsl/                                                                                              c
,I *h-      . conm f rh. red-n of
Ih- r.. por   -  hclh il .s tt.ch d                                                                                            i 
rhe1 d l-nlmffiom -se md th                                                                                       o     J ,
bo-d.fi.. Jh.- om th.s m-p 
do ror WmfTf - th. pAYT of th V.                                              
W.,dd 8.t md irt 0fist-,es -yX                                                              Abu lbrel                          
-mV 1.mi-y rr mV end-.-IntC 
221 0lg- a crop -oo h bom-. __ 
-  -                   ------                                                                          - -
i  ~~~~/z ai Haifa                                                                                                                                                        \
;              2,o-                                                               30Sp                                   U   D  A   N               34                                                i



