3FFICT.AL LOAN NUMBER 1804 EGT
DOcMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Fourth DIB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1804 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   (l/%I , 1980, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND O'S  ELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a banking institution established and operating under
the laws of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprises for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprises for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprises" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Egyptian Pound" and "FE" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Associa-
tion of the Borrower, issued under Ministerial Decree No. 65
of February 17, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the Policy Statement approv-
ed by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on July 28, 1976,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(i) "Strategy Statement" means the strategy statement
approved by the Borrower's Board of Directors, as amended to
the date of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(j) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means any outstand-
ing development credit agreement between the International Devel-
opment Association and the Guarantor in which the Borrower has
been the beneficiary, dated before the date of this Agreement and
"Prior Credit" means any credit provided for therein.
(k) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement (Third
DIB Project), concluded between the Bank and the Borrower on
April 12, 1978 and "Prior Loan" means the loan provided for
therein.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or legally controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
(m) "SSI" means any Investment Enterprise whose fixed
assets, excluding land and buildings, are estimated at no more
than EE200,000, or at such other amount as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree.
(n) "Hire-Purchase Operations" means, for the purpose
of this Agreement, the purchase by the Borrower, after authori-
zation from the Bank, of equipment and machinery for the purpose


﻿-3-
of renting the same to SSIs under arrangements whereby ownership
of such machinery or equipment may be transferred to such SSIs at
the end of the stipulated rent period.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account
of: (i) withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise or an SSI
under a sub-loan or investment to meet the reasonable foreign-
currency cost of imported goods and services required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless, (A)
the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Bank,
or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the
Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account, and
(ii) withdrawal made by the Borrower to meet the foreign exchange
cost of goods on account of Hire-Purchase Operations.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $650,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expen-
ditures before the date of this Agreement; (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
or investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit


﻿-4-
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement; or (iii) expenditures on account of a sub-loan other
than a free-limit sub-loan unless the Borrower has established
to the satisfaction of the Bank that the economic rate of return
of the Investment Project is estimated to be at least 12%.
(d) The Borrower may provide sub-loans, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 (i) to Invest-
ment Enterprises in the public sector of the Guarantor in which
the Guarantor holds the majority of voting stock or other pro-
prietary interests; and (ii) to Investment Enterprises in the
public sector of Egypt which are entirely owned by the Guarantor,
provided that such public sector Enterprises shall use the pro-
ceeds of such sub-loans for the implementation of Investment
Projects expected, on the basis of realistic estimates, to enable
such Enterprises to sell and to export not less than 20% of their
respective products for freely convertible currencies.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including the estimated economic rate of return of the
Investment Project and a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the invest-
ment; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) In making a sub-loan to an Investment Enterprise,
the Borrower shall charge on each sub-loan, in addition to the
corresponding amount of commitment charge, if any, borne by the


﻿-5-
Borrower in connection with such sub-loan, and except as the Bank
and the Borcower shall otherwise agree, an annual rate of interest
of not less than 11%.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1982.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and Hire-
Purchase Operations and the schedules of repayment to the Bank in
respect of investments, which have been approved or authorized for
withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided
that repayments due hereunder shall be made on February 15
and August 15 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule
1 shall include amendments to the table of premiums on repayment,
if necessary.


﻿-6-
(b) The amorization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace
not exceeding three and one-half years, and, unless the Bank and
the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond
fifteen years from the date of approval by the Bank of such
sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan,
of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for appro-
ximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) When repayment of a sub-loan is made in Egyptian Pounds,
the principal amount of such sub-loan shall be the equivalent in
terms of Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the respective dates of
debt service on the sub-loan) of the U.S. dollar equivalent
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan; the equivalents in
terms of Egyptian Pounds shall be determined on the basis of
the highest rate of exchange declared by the Central Bank of
Egypt.
(d) The Borrower shall include in its contracts with
SSIs for Hire-Purchase Operations to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan provisions whereby adjustments shall be
made so that such SSIs shall acquire all gains or bear any losses
due to changes in the exchange rate between the Egyptian Pound
and the United States dollar.
(e) The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor the equivalent
in Egyptian Pounds of any gains it shall make on account of
changes in the value in terms of U.S. dollars of the currency
or currencies in which debt service payments shall be made on
tfte Loan pursuant to Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the General
Conditions; conversely, the Borrower shall receive from the
Guarantor, pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement,
the equivalent in Egyptian Pounds of any losses due to such
changes.
(f) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan
or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amouat so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the
Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such invest-
ment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
and related services in Egypt as will contribute to the economic
and social development of the country. The Project consists
essentially of the financing of specific industrial and tourism
development projects through loans to, and investments in, private
and public enterprises including private enterprises established
as joint ventures between private and public enterprises, in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Articles of Association, Statement
of Policy, and Strategy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interest of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan
and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of
any investment or any Hire Purchase Operation, the right of the
Borrower to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such
as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
service shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds


﻿-9-
of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall resonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Invest-
ment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the Sub-loans
and Investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement, and which
may adversely affect the carrying out by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) allocate at least
thirty per cent (30%) of the amounts approved for term lending
in the years 1980 and 1981 for financing Investment Projects
sponsored by SSIs; and (b) allocate during such years the equi-
valent of not less than $10,000,000 out of its foreign currency
resources, including the Loan, for financing (i) investment
projects to be carried out by SSIs the total fixed assets of each,
excluding land and buildings, are valued at not more than
E100,000, and (ii) Hire Purchase Operations undertaken by, the
Borrower for the benefit of such SSIs.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) calculate the economic
rate of return of all projects, estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of E800,000, submitted to it for financing; and
(b) require a rate of return of not less than 12% for the provi-
sion of sub-loans from the proceeds of the Loan for the financing
of such projects.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and records the progress of the Pro-
ject and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning "he
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03 (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any


﻿- 11 -
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/eouity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
,subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater
than seven times the consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all of its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a) "debt" means any long-term or any short-term debt
incurred by the Borrower, any guarantee provided by the Borrower,
but only to the extent that it is not covered by a security, and
any cash deposited with the Borrower excluding cash held by the
Borrower as security for loans provided by it;*
*    This is the definition of debt provided in the Borrower's
Statement of Policy.


﻿- 12 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement, the Prior
Loan Agreement and any Prior Development Credit Agreement) on the
date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, excluding any debt owned by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-
up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Egyptian Pounds) used in its
operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01  For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Articles of Asso-
ciation or in the Statement of Policy which would materially
and adversely affect the operations or the financial condition of
the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of                  /   vis hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Development Industrial Bank
110 Galaa Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
DEVEBANK                           2643
Cairo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 15 -
of Columb-,ia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
By                                    L
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Date Payment Due                          Principal Amount Due**
February 15, 1984                               1,344,000
August 15, 1984                                 1,400,000
February 15, 1985                               1,458,000
August 15, 1985                                 1,518,000
February 15, 1986                               1,580,000
August 15, 1986                                 1,646,000
February 15, 1987                               1,714,000
August 15, 1987                                 1,784,000
February 15, 1988                               1,858,000
August 15, 1988                                 1,934,000
February 15, 1989                               2,014,000
August 15, 1989                                 2,097,000
February 15, 1990                               2,184,000
August 15, 1990                                 2,274,000
February 15, 1991                               2,368,000
August 15, 1991                                 2,465,000
February 15, 1992                               2,567,000
August 15, 1992                                 2,673,000
February 15, 1993                               2,783,000
August 15, 1993                                 2,898,000
February 15, 1994                               3,018,000
August 15, 1994                                 3,142,000
February 15, 1995                               3,281,000
50,000,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /day of          A    , 19712.
FOR SECRETARY


