LOAN NUMBER 1804 EGT
Guanntee Agreement
(Fourth DIB Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1804 EGT
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          (t              I         , 1980,
between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Development Industrial Bank (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations ot the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall make arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank to ensure the availability to the Borrower of
such amounts in Egyptian Pounds as shall be sufficient to meet the
local currency requirements of the Borrower's lending operations
during the period ending December 31, 1986.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarartor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the
Borrower to perform its obligations contained in the Loan Agree-
ment, and shall not take or cause to be taken any action which
would prevent oi interfere with the performance by the Borrower of
such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Gua-antor shall assume any losses that
the Borrower shall incur on account of changes in the value in
terms of U.S. dollars of the currency or currencies in which debt
service payments shall be made on the Loan pursuant to Sections
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the General Conditions; conversely, the
Guarantor shall receive from the Borrower, pursuant to Section
2.08 (e) of the Loan Agreement, the amount of any gains on account
of such changes.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation and the Under Secretary for International
Finance of the Guarantor are designated as representatives of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4-
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy and                  348-GAFEC-UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo, Egypt
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 5 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /LL     day ofA       , 19F2.
FOR SECRETARY


