                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR2614




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-31940)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.8 MILLION
                       (US$ 50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                     FOR A

            SECONDARY EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT



                                  June 14, 2013




Human Development Department
Djibouti, Egypt and Yemen Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 2/6/2013)

                      Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (EGP)
                          1.00 EGP = US$0.149
                           US$1.00 = 6.702 EGP

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAPMAS   Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCIMD    Center for Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EEP      Education Enhancement Program
EGP      Egyptian Pound
GAEB     General Association for Educational Buildings
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT      Information and communication technology
IDA      International Development Association
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE      Ministry of Education
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NAQAAE   National Authority for Quality Assurance and Accreditation of Education
NCEEE    National Center for Educational Evaluation and Examinations
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIRLS    Progress in International Reading Literacy Study
PISA     Programme for International Student Assessment
PPMU     Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SEEP     Secondary Education Enhancement Project
TIMSS    Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
TTL      Task Team Leader
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                                     ii
      Vice President: Inger Andersen
    Country Director: Hartwig Schafer
     Sector Manager: Mourad Ezzine
Project Team Leader: Ernesto Cuadra
   ICR Team Leader: Ernesto Cuadra




                    iii
                                     EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                                Secondary Education Enhancement Project


                                                          CONTENTS
Data Sheet

  A. BASIC INFORMATION ................................................................................................... V
  B. KEY DATES ................................................................................................................. V
  C. RATINGS SUMMARY .................................................................................................... V
  D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES ....................................................................................... VI
  E. BANK STAFF ............................................................................................................... VI
  F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS .............................................................................. VI
  G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN ISRS.......................................................... VIII
  H. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY) .......................................................................................... IX
  I. DISBURSEMENT PROFILE.............................................................................................. X

  1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN .................................... 1
  2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ................................. 12
  3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ...................................................................................... 19
  4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME .................................................. 31
  5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................... 31
  6. LESSONS LEARNED .................................................................................................... 35
  7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS
  ....................................................................................................................................... 37
  ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................................................... 38
  ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT ............................................................................. 39
  ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................................... 43
  ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES 44
  ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS .................................................................... 46
  ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ....................................... 47
  ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR .......... 49
  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ....... 55
  ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ................................................................ 56
  MAP




                                                                   iv
A. Basic Information
                          Egypt, Arab Republic                               Secondary Education
Country:                                              Project Name:
                          of                                                 Enhancement Project
Project ID:               P050484                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31940
ICR Date:                 06/14/2013                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                             EGYPT
Original Total
                          XDR 35.80M                  Disbursed Amount:      XDR 35.68M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 35.80M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education (MOE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           07/06/1998       Effectiveness:           06/29/2000       06/29/2000
                                                                                     06/29/2010
Appraisal:                02/13/1999       Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     07/03/2012
Approval:                 04/15/1999       Mid-term Review:
                                           Closing:                 06/30/2006       10/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          High
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                             Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                  Implementing           Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank              Moderately                  Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory              Performance:           Unsatisfactory



                                                      v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     5                      5
Other social services                                                 5
Secondary education                                                   80                   80
Sub-national government administration                                5                    10
Tertiary education                                                    5                      5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     33                   40
Education for the knowledge economy                                   33                   40
Other social development                                              17
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                   20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          Hartwig Schafer                      Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine                        Jacques Baudouy
Project Team Leader:       Ernesto P. Cuadra                    Mae Chu Chang
ICR Team Leader:           Ernesto P. Cuadra
ICR Primary Author:        Michael T. Mertaugh


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the quality and opportunity in secondary education by:



                                               vi
  a. Increasing access to general secondary education through upgrading commercial
schools to technological general schools and providing flexible options for study within
and between branches of the system;

  b. Better aligning curricula and assessment with the skills needs of employers and
higher education;

  c. Providing professional development for teachers and administrators on new
technologies, curricula, assessment and management techniques; and

 d. Strengthening institutional capacity.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally     Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target      Completion or
                                             documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Share of general secondary students increases from 30% to 50% by 2006
Value
quantitative or 30%                        50%                 40%             43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/13/1999                   04/16/1999          06/16/2010      06/28/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target value of the PDO was revised with no consultation to the Board
achievement)
                At least 70% of school management teams in project schools are judge
Indicator 2 :
                competent in duties outlined in new job criteria by 2006
                                                               At least 70%
                                                               of school
                                                               management
                                                               teams in
Value           No performance measure                         project schools
                                           70% of school
quantitative or was available at the time                      are judge       70%
                                           management teams
Qualitative)    of preparation                                 competent in
                                                               duties outlined
                                                               in new job
                                                               criteria by
                                                               2012
Date achieved 03/28/1998                   04/16/1999          06/15/2010      06/30/2008
Comments
                The 70% value is based on information about training. No performance
(incl. %
                measurement criteria were developed.
achievement)




                                              vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                A core curriculum framework developed, including the curriculum for core
Indicator 1 :
                subject areas
                                                               A core
                                            Core and elective
                                                               curriculum
                                            curriculum and
                                                               framework
Value                                       textbooks                           Curriculum
                No curriculum framework                        developed
(quantitative                               developed for                       framework
                exist                                          including the
or Qualitative)                             general and                         approved
                                                               curriculum for
                                            technical
                                                               core subject
                                            education
                                                               areas
Date achieved 02/13/1999                    04/16/1999         06/15/2010       04/27/2012
Comments
                Several MoE teams began working on the development of new subject
(incl. %
                curriculum before finalizing the general curriculum framework.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : School management responsibilities devolved to local levels
                                            315 project
                                            schools produce
                                            and implement      Board of
Value                                                                           All project schools
                No school action plan       school             Trustees set up
(quantitative                                                                   have Board of
                exist                       improvement plans in all project
or Qualitative)                                                                 Trustees
                                            with participation schools
                                            of new Boards of
                                            Trustees.
Date achieved 02/13/1999                    04/16/1999         06/15/2010       09/30/2012
Comments
                Schools did participate in the preparation of action plans but the activity was not
(incl. %
                sustained systematically.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/06/1999            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/17/1999            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     07/02/1999            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     12/20/1999            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  5     06/21/2000            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  6     11/22/2000            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  7     04/30/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.46
  8     10/29/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.51
  9     04/26/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.43


                                                viii
 10    10/25/2002       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory           7.21
 11    04/18/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          11.41
 12    10/20/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          13.05
 13    05/01/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          15.50
 14    11/08/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          16.99
 15    04/26/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          18.34
 16    12/01/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          19.57
 17    06/16/2006       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          23.00
 18    12/22/2006       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          25.66
 19    06/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   26.20
 20    12/21/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   27.52
 21    06/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   28.66
 22    12/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   29.94
                         Moderately
 23    07/04/2009                                  Moderately Satisfactory   33.32
                       Unsatisfactory
 24    05/26/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   40.23
                         Moderately                     Moderately
 25    02/20/2011                                                            42.07
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
 26    10/26/2011                                                            44.04
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 27    06/23/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   45.61


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To extend the Closing Date
                                                     from June 30, 2010 to June 30,
 06/29/2010       N       MS    MS           40.23   2012; and to introduce minor
                                                     changes to the PDOs and to add
                                                     new intermediate indicators
                                                     To extend the Closing Date
 07/03/2012               MS     MS          46.45   from June 30, 2012 to October
                                                     31, 2012




                                              ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
    1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and sector background. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Egypt emphasized the key role of human capital in the country’s economic development.
It recommended a range of measures intended to stimulate the productive sectors of the
economy by encouraging private industry, export-led growth, and investment in
technology. But it noted that these actions would succeed only if Egypt develops a
skilled, healthy, and competitive labor force.

Government spending on education had increased in the prior five years to a relatively
high 6.5% of GDP. Despite this fiscal effort, education quality remained low and many
graduates lacked the skills needed in the job market. Many secondary school graduates
were unable to find work. Excessively centralized decision-making and other obstacles
led to inefficiency in education delivery and misallocation of resources. The CAS cited a
need to improve curricula and develop cognitive skills at the basic education level, but
predicted that these would be politically and administratively difficult to implement.

Donor efforts in the education sector in Egypt focused principally on basic education,
After a long period in which secondary education 1 in Egypt gave preference to
(vocational) technical education over general education, the project supported a new
strategy by the Government to improve equity by restoring balance to secondary
education. Most students who wished to continue their education after the compulsory
primary and preparatory cycles had been oriented to technical secondary schools –
specialized either in industrial, commercial, or agricultural subjects. Most students in
these programs entered the labor market upon completion; only 5% of them went on to
higher education. Relatively few students were oriented to general secondary schools
that provided most entrants to higher education. The Government’s target under this
policy was to enroll 70% of secondary students in (vocational) technical programs, with
just 30% in general secondary schools. This vocational bias dated to the 1970s and
continued with the support of donor agencies throughout the 1980s.2 It was aided by
government policies that limited entry to general secondary education, while at the same
time facilitating the flow of students from general secondary education to higher
education by a seven-fold increase in the budget for higher education between the first
and fourth 5-year plans (1982 to 1998).3

Despite this vocational bias, technical education programs were not well aligned with the
skill needs of employers. A major Government paper on technical and vocational
education and training found that “most technical education students entered the labor
market directly after their studies, more often than not without completing their courses.
Even those who did complete their courses had high unemployment rates, competing less
successfully against an increasing number of university graduates going for the same
type of work, as well as against semi-skilled workers trained mostly on the job.?4 This
segmentation of secondary schooling was an important driver of unequal opportunity, as
graduates of technical schools faced poor employment prospects upon completion while
graduates of general secondary schools had better access to higher education and higher-
level jobs.

The vocational bias in secondary education persisted until the late 1990s. At the time of
project identification (1998), 66% of Egypt’s secondary students were enrolled in
technical schools. 5 Adult male workers in the labor force with technical secondary
education outnumbered those with general secondary education by 2½ to one in urban
areas; in rural areas, by more than five to one.6 Under the Government’s new policy and
with the support of the Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP), the
Government aimed to achieve equality in technical secondary and general secondary
enrollments by 2006.

The SEEP Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified four main sector issues:
      imbalance between technical and general schooling, with too many secondary
       students (66% of total enrollments) enrolled in technical schools and too few in
       general schools leading to higher education,
      poor quality and relevance of education due to deficiencies of curricula and
       teacher training,
      inadequate quality assurance mechanisms to monitor school performance and
       student learning, with excessive reliance on rote memorization and too little on
       application of knowledge, and
      inefficiencies in service delivery, reflecting deficiencies in resource management
       and lack of incentives for improved performance.

As part of SEEP preparation, the Government developed and adopted a “Strategic
Framework for Reform of Secondary Education.?7 This document set forth goals for
making secondary education more equitable and responsive to labor-market needs, and
established reform-program goals and related project output goals for each of several sub-
categories under two main reform-program intervention areas: a) improving quality and
opportunity, and b) strengthening institutional capacity. Major elements of that strategy
involved increasing the share of secondary enrollments in general schools and reducing
them in technical schools, and revising curricula and course options in order to provide
more flexibility to students during and after their secondary studies. The SEEP supported
implementation of the Secondary Education Reform Program through activities that
addressed each of the sub-categories in the Government’s Reform Program.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The PAD description of “Value added of Bank
support in this project,?8 emphasized the Bank’s role as a catalyst among other donors
and its experience with system-wide reforms and public-private partnerships. More
fundamentally, the rationale for Bank involvement in the project arose from: a) the
expected public-good benefits of the supported interventions in terms of improved equity
and productivity, and b) the fact that efforts of the Bank and other donors up to the time
of project preparation had focused on levels of education other than secondary


                                            2
education. 9 These efforts included an extensive USAID 10 program of support for
improvements in basic education, as well as the World-Bank supported Education
Enhancement Program (EEP). The EEP was approved in 1997 and was under
implementation at the time of the SEEP identification and early implementation. 11
Earlier Bank-financed projects in the education sector were the 1985 Vocational Training
Project, which trained technical staff for the electricity sector, and the 1993 Basic
Education Improvement Project, which supported school construction, training,
curriculum development and equipment for primary and preparatory education.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Project Development Objective. As described on page 2 of the PAD, the SEEP’s PDO
was:
       “to improve the quality and opportunity in secondary education by: a) increasing
       access to general secondary education through upgrading commercial schools to
       technical schools and providing flexible options for study within and between
       branches of the system, b) better aligning curricula and assessment with the skills
       needs of employers and higher education, c) providing professional development
       for teachers and administrators on new technologies, curricula, assessment and
       management techniques, and d) strengthening institutional capacity.?

The reference to “upgrading commercial schools to technical schools? in item a) of this
statement is an obvious error. 1 It is inconsistent with the statements on page 3 and
elsewhere in the PAD that: a) commercial schools are technical schools, and (b) that
there were reportedly already too many enrollments in technical schools. The project
indicator shown in the PAD for this objective is “share of general secondary students
increases from 30% to 50% by 2006,? and the discussion of sector issues on page 3 of the
PAD describes to the issue of balance between technical and general schooling at the
secondary level. Likewise, the first item in the project description on page 6 of the PAD
is “conversion of about 315 commercial schools to general schools through renovations
and equipment to reach a balance of 50% general, 50% technical school enrollments.?
This information makes it quite clear that the first item in the PDO was intended to be
“increasing access to general secondary education by upgrading commercial schools to
general secondary schools.?

The presentation of the Project Development Objective in Annex I of the PAD includes
no mention of the objective of improving access to general secondary education through
upgrading commercial schools to technical schools, but is otherwise similar to the
presentation on page 2 of the PAD:



1
 The Project Status Reports (PSRs) do not correct the error in the PAD’s presentation of the first element
of the project’s development objective. PSRs 1 through 7 retain verbatim the illogical description of the
PDO from page 2 of the PAD



                                                     3
       “Improving quality and opportunity of secondary education by: a) increasing
       equality of opportunity in access to general secondary education through flexible
       options for study within and between branches of the system, b) better aligning
       curricula and skill needs with the skill needs of employers and higher education,
       and c) providing professional development for teachers on the new curricula and
       assessment techniques. Strengthening educational management to strengthen the
       capacity of the education system at the central level and in selected governorates
       and schools to deliver quality education by: better defining responsibilities, b)
       strengthening accountability mechanisms, and c) providing professional
       development for school heads and administrators.?12

Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) describes the PDO in very
general terms: “to assist the Borrower to establish the basis for an equitable education
system through quality and opportunity improvement and strengthening of management
and accountability procedures.?

Key Indicators. The key indicators presented of page 2 of the PAD for monitoring and
evaluating achievement of the PDO were the following five outcomes:
     Share of general secondary students increases from 30% to 50% by 2006.
     Share of technical secondary graduates entering higher education rises from 5%
        to 8%.
     Employability of secondary-school graduates from project schools improves as
        assessed by tracer studies.
     Graduates from project schools achieve good pass marks on school-leaving
        examination as compared to non-upgraded schools.
     At least 70% of School Management Teams in project schools are judged
        competent in duties as outlined in new job criteria by 2006.13  
The presentation of the PDO in Annex 1 of the PAD includes a sixth key performance
indicator: “curriculum and assessment aligned.?  

The first of these bulleted key performance indicators addresses the objective of
increasing access to general secondary education by upgrading commercial schools to
general secondary schools, but there is no performance indicator for the second part of
the first instrument listed in the PDO: “providing flexible options for study within and
between branches of the system.? In addition to these performance indicators for
evaluating project performance in relation to the project development objective, Annex 1
of the PAD lists eighteen key performance indicators for evaluating project performance
in relation to the project’s planned outputs (or instruments for achieving the project
development objective).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Despite the inconsistencies in presentation of the PDO in various project documents and
the change that was made in monitoring indicators (described below), the PDO was not
officially revised from the version presented in the PAD. The June 16, 2010


                                           4
Restructuring Paper 14 includes on page v the altered description of the first project
objective that was introduced in PSR number 8, but states on page 2 that “the original
PDO remains unchanged.? The Restructuring Paper indicates that two of the PDO result
indicators were reformulated as follows:




This description of the change in the second result indicator is not quite accurate. The
original result indicator for the PDO of strengthened institutional capacity is “At least
70% of School Management Teams in project schools are judged competent in duties as
outlined in new job criteria by 2006.?15 Thus, the 2010 Restructuring changed the target
date for developing skills of school management teams, but not the content of that
indicator.

The following explanation is provided in the 2010 Restructuring Paper for the changes in
PDO results indicators:
“Two minor changes were introduced to the PDO indicators. First, the PDO indicator
related to the share of students enrolled in general secondary education was
reformulated and scaled down from 50% to 40% to reflect the decision to stop converting
commercial schools into general secondary schools. Second, the PDO indicator related
to school management practices was defined more precisely with a clear expected target
value. The instrument to monitor the second PDO indicator, which is related to school
management improvement, has yet to be developed. So far the project has been reporting
on the number of school managers and school management team being trained. During
the extension the project will develop an instrument to assess management competencies.
It is expected that the original goal of the project – i.e. 70% of project teams in project
schools are judged competent in duties outlines in the new job description – will be
achieved by the end of the third extension period.?16

The Restructuring Paper explains that the rationale for changing the results indicator for
the share of students enrolled in general secondary education was based on the decision
to suspend the conversion of commercial schools to general secondary schools, and to
instead use the funds which were allocated for that activity to upgrade schools. (See
section 1.6 below for a fuller description of this change.) The June 2010 project
restructuring also revised two intermediate results indicators and added three new ones,
as follows:




                                            5
The first of these revised results indicators scaled down expectations for curriculum
reform under the project by eliminating the development of common core courses under
the new curriculum framework. At the same time however, the new indicator on teachers’
mastery of the new curriculum framework added a more results-based measure of
whether teachers understood the new curriculum framework and what it implied for their
teaching. The second indicator for component one was added to provide a benchmark for
measuring infrastructure and equipment improvements following the decision to suspend
the conversion of commercial schools and to use the funds allocated for that purpose
instead for facilities and equipment improvements for existing general secondary schools
(Sections 1.6 and 1.7). The first indicator for component two was similarly scaled down
to involve only the establishment of Boards of Trustees in all project schools, without
requiring that school management responsibilities be devolved to schools. Boards of
Trustees were to have played a role in implementation of school improvement plans
under the school grant subcomponent. Elimination of school grants under the earlier
2006 project amendment (Sections 1.6 and 1.7) diminished the role of school Boards.
The new, second indicator for component two also added a more results-based measure
of whether school management teams could effectively use the new information and
communication technology (ICT) equipment provided under the project.                The
Restructuring paper stated that under the extension, the project would develop an
instrument to assess management competencies.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Targeted Beneficiaries. The PAD identified two levels of beneficiaries: a) the staff,
students, and communities in the catchment areas of the specific schools which were to
be converted from commercial to general and provided with enhanced facilities under the
project, and b) a wider population which was expected to benefit from project-supported
improvements in national-level programs, including secondary students who were


                                           6
expected to become more productive and “better prepared for life,? families and
communities who would benefit socially and economically from “better prepared
citizens,? private employers and consumers who would benefit from a better prepared
workforce, and higher education institutions which would benefit from more qualified
and flexible incoming students. 17 The DCA contains no statement on the project’s
expected beneficiaries.

Additional Beneficiaries. The project also provided benefits for additional beneficiaries
that were not recognized at appraisal. Under the project’s original design, the immediate
beneficiaries were to be the students that attended the commercial schools that were
upgraded and converted to general secondary schools under the project. Those students –
who would otherwise have faced limited options upon graduation from commercial
schooling -- would presumably benefit from higher-quality programs during their
secondary studies and richer options upon graduation. The decision taken during
implementation to suspend conversion of commercial schools and to use the remaining
proceeds of the school conversion component to upgrade existing general secondary
schools (Sections 1.6, 1.7, and 2.2) added a new category of beneficiaries – students who
attend the existing general secondary schools that were upgraded under the project.
Upgrading existing general secondary schools did not require as extensive an investment
in facilities and equipment as did conversion of commercial schools to general secondary
schools. For that reason, the suspension of commercial school conversion and its
replacement with general school upgrading allowed a larger number of schools and
students to benefit from this activity (Section 1.6): a total 205 out of the planned 315
commercial schools were converted to general secondary schools, and 593 existing
general secondary schools were upgraded under the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Improving Quality and Opportunity ($232.6 million)

As described in the PAD,18 this component comprised three sub-components designed to
improve quality and opportunity in secondary education:

      Converting about 315 commercial schools to general schools to reach
       balanced secondary enrollments of 50% general and 50% technical.
       Upgrading commercial schools to meet standards for general education core
       courses was to consist of provision of facilities (science labs and learning resource
       centers) and equipment (laboratory equipment, computers, and multimedia
       technologies).
      Developing the framework for a comprehensive general curriculum, relevant
       electives, a wider range of assessment methodologies, and associated teacher
       training and materials. This subcomponent comprised three distinct activities:
           o developing new curriculum frameworks for general and technical
               secondary schools with core courses and options for students of different
               ability levels,



                                            7
          o developing new tools for assessing the effectiveness of the courses which
            to be developed under the new curriculum framework. This activity was
            also to include the development of new school-based assessments of
            student learning achievement, and
          o designing instructional materials and in-service training programs to make
            teachers competent in delivering the new curriculum.
      Providing equipment and training to integrate computer technology into
       teaching practice. In-service teacher training under this sub-component had
       three main objectives:
           o to make teachers computer literate,
           o to make teachers competent in using computers to deliver the existing
              curriculum, and
           o to make teachers competent in using computers to deliver the new core
              curriculum when it is developed.
Component 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$17.4 million)
This component comprised short-term activities to improve local school management and
community and business involvement, and longer-term strategies to improve education
system management at the central level. This component comprised three sub-
components:
      Promoting community and private-sector involvement in supporting and
       monitoring school performance through parent-council activities and
       public/private partnerships. This involved two activities:
          o School improvement grants to finance the implementation of
              community-generated initiatives to improve local schools, and
          o Training of parents’ councils in generating and implementing school
              improvement proposals for financing under the school improvement grants.
      Developing new quality assurance mechanisms and improving management.
       This was intended as a long-term activity to modernize management practices and
       rationalize the functions of service-delivery agencies, including those responsible
       for in-service training. The sub-component included technical assistance to
       review existing management structures and personnel practices, to develop new
       incentives for improved performance on the part of education system staff, and to
       elaborate new approaches for school inspection and supervision.
      Building capacity. This sub-component was intended to support training for
       school managers on reform-program activities, including introduction of more
       effective teaching methods, use of technology as a management and learning tool,
       and planning joint activities with school councils and the private sector.

The presentation of the project components in the DCA is consistent with but generally
less specific than that in the PAD. The school upgrading component is presented in the
DCA as “rehabilitation, conversion, and equipment of selected technical schools.?19




                                            8
1.6 Revised Components

During implementation, the project experienced two significant changes in project
components, involving deletion of school improvement grants and suspension of
commercial school conversion and its replacement with general secondary school
upgrading.

Deletion of School Improvement Grants. The project was amended in March 2006 to
extend the project closing date from June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008 (Section 1.7). The
project disbursement schedule was also changed at that time to reallocate the funds
originally provided for school grants -- US$1.65 million – to civil works for school
upgrading. A March 20, 2006 staff memorandum to Bank management on the proposed
closing date extension explains that the Government’s request to delete school grants
from the project “was agreed as difficult to administer and implement in Egypt as
illustrated by other donors’ pilots in the recent past.? The Aide Mémoire of the
November 2007 project supervision mission further explained that school grants were
dropped from the project “due to the difficulties that would be encountered in tracking
the funds, as project funds are not allowed to be disbursed directly to schools.? The
school grant program is included in the project description in the PAD and DCA.20
The project description was not subsequently revised to reflect the removal of the school
grant activity from the project.

Suspension of Commercial School Conversion. As described above (Section 1.5), the
first sub-component of the first component of the project, and by far the largest
expenditure item in the project – accounting for US$199 million of a total project cost of
US$250 million – was the conversion of about 315 existing commercial secondary
schools into general secondary schools. This activity was designed to enable an increase
in general secondary enrollment in relation to technical secondary enrollments, thereby
promoting the goal of equal opportunity. It was also designed to improve quality of
secondary education, since general secondary schools were widely seen as providing
higher quality education than commercial secondary education.

The Aide-Mémoire of the October/November 2003 supervision mission reported that:
       “During discussions with MOE and Govemorate officials, it has been agreed that
       reaching the targeted number of 315 converted schools may be difficult. However,
       reaching the 50% ratio of students in general secondary education which is
       targeted by the project may be achieved through increasing numbers of students
       in existing secondary schools which are not functioning with their full capacity
       through lowering the score required for joining general secondary education.21

Because of public resistance to conversion of commercial schools under the project, the
Government suspended the school conversion program during the 2003/2004 school
year.22

The June, 2004 SEEP supervision mission endorsed this decision, apparently without
management review. It reported that:


                                            9
“The mission of June 04 has given options to speed up the project implementation and
focus on limited and achievable goals such as to stop school conversion, start the
curriculum process on a small scale, and move faster on training and institutional
development activities…. The supervision mission has noted resistance by communities
to the conversion in the absence of understanding the rationale behind it. The mission
has recommended to cease conversion by September, 2004 while addressing community
awareness to eliminate resistance in the existing converted schools areas.?23

Although this statement does not indicate what was to be done with the remaining funds
under the school conversion activity, the Aide Mémoire and ISR of the July 2006
supervision mission reported that they were being used for upgrading existing general
secondary schools. Subsequent supervision missions reported that this effort was
continuing. By the final closing date of October 31, 2012, a total of 584 general
secondary schools had been upgraded under the component. The Aide Mémoire of the
July 2004 mission reported that the PDO target of 50% of secondary enrollments in
general secondary schools would be met by building more new secondary schools rather
than by school conversion. Subsequent supervision missions reiterated the same
argument.

Despite the significance of this change and the fact that the Government requested in
February 2006 that the Bank revise the project description to delete mention of school
conversion,24 the project description was not revised and senior Bank management was
not notified of the change until the 2010 project Restructuring – six years after the change
was implemented. The June 2010 Restructuring Paper reported that school conversion
under the project was being suspended due to public resistance, and that the remaining
funds allocated for this activity were to be used instead for upgrading teaching conditions
in “the same original schools that the project had targeted for conversion.? This
statement was not entirely accurate, since the schools that were originally targeted for
conversion were commercial schools, whereas the schools that were upgraded after the
change were newly-selected, existing general secondary schools.

However worthy its intention, the decision to suspend the conversion of commercial
schools to general schools and to use the funds allocated for that activity instead for
upgrading general secondary schools was not consistent with the project description as
presented in the PAD and the DCA, both of which included conversion of technical
schools but not upgrading of general schools. It also altered the development outcome of
the school conversion activity--from reducing technical enrolment and expanding general
enrollment to improving general education quality, since upgrading of general schools
was not designed to expand their capacity. The suspension of school conversion also
implies an unrecognized change in project beneficiaries (Section 1.4), and raises
questions about consistency of general school upgrading with the project development
objective (Section 2.2) and about the rationale for the school conversion component
(Section 3.1).




                                            10
1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project was amended eight times during the course of implementation, including two
Level II Restructurings.25 Listed in chronological order, these were as follows:

Amendment of March 23, 2003 26 – allowed use of statements of expenditure and
financial management reports as basis of disbursements, and reallocated funds from the
“unallocated? category to “training? and “project management.?

Amendment of March 21, 200627 – extended the project Closing Date from June 30,
2006 to June 30, 2008 and reallocated funds from the deleted school fund component to
civil works for school upgrading. Although the school grant activity is specifically
included in the project description in the PAD and DCA,28 the project description was not
subsequently revised to reflect the removal of the school grant activity from the project.
The deletion of the school grant activity is not reflected either in the 2010 Restructuring
or the 2012 Restructuring.

Amendment of June 29, 200829 – extended the Closing Date from June 30, 2008 to
June 30, 2010 and further amended the project disbursement schedule.

Amendment of December 31, 200830 – modified Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement to
allow procurement of small works on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified
contractors.

Restructuring of June 29, 201031 – This Level 2 Restructuring extended the Closing
Date for the third time -- from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012 -- and revised PDO
indicators and intermediate results indicators as described above (Section 1.3). At the
same time, it reported that the school conversion program was being suspended due to
public resistance, and the remaining funds allocated for this activity were to be used
instead for upgrading the project’s targeted secondary schools.

Restructuring of April 17, 201232 – amended the disbursement schedule, reallocating
unused funds from other categories to allow completion of school upgrading to meet
infrastructure standards set by the National Quality Assurance and Accreditation
Authority.

Amendment of July 3, 201233 -- extended the project Closing Date from June 30, 2012
to October 31, 2012 to allow completion of the ongoing upgrading of 67 project schools.

Amendment of November 19, 201234 – amended the disbursement schedule to allow
completion of the ongoing upgrading of 67 project schools to meet infrastructure
standards set by the National Quality Assurance and Accreditation Authority.




                                            11
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project identification benefited from the experience gained through preparation and
implementation of the then-ongoing Education Enhancement Project (focusing on basic
education) and, especially, through a close working partnership with USAID and other
donors in the education sector.

There were several deficiencies in project preparation and design, some of which could
have been detected at the time of preparation while others became apparent in the course
of implementation. These include: inconsistent and inaccurate presentation of the
project development objective, weak rationale for the school conversion component,
incomplete social analysis and public awareness outreach, incomplete preparation of the
school grant activity, and lack of a baseline for evaluation of development outcomes.

Inconsistency and Inaccuracy in Presentation of the Project Development Objective.
As described above (Section 1.2) the various presentations of the first of four elements of
the Project Development Objective in the PAD, DCA, and ISRs and PSRs were
inconsistent, misleading, and, in one case, wrong. This lack of attention to presentation
of the project’s first development objective hinders the evaluation of project outcomes
and raises a question about the rationale for the school conversion component.

Weak Rationale for the School Conversion Component. The conversion of
commercial secondary schools to general secondary schools under the project was
consistent with the Bank’s education policy at the time of appraisal, which advocated the
introduction of specialized vocational and technical education only after completion of
general secondary education. This policy was based on widespread findings that general
secondary education tends to be more responsive than vocational or technical secondary
education to evolving skill requirements, and therefore that general secondary education
typically leads to higher returns for graduates and is less costly than secondary vocational
and technical education.35 The project’s support for conversion of commercial secondary
school to general secondary schools also reflected the fact that there were serious
problems in content and delivery of technical secondary education in Egypt. The
commercial-school curriculum, for example, included instruction in typing on mechanical
typewriters, but no instruction on computer-based word processing. In that environment,
replacement of commercial schools with more up-to-date and better-equipped general
secondary schools was seen as an appropriate means of raising quality and relevance of
secondary education in Egypt. However, apart from citing problems with existing
commercial secondary schools and asserting that education quality was higher in general
secondary schools than in technical secondary schools, the PAD did not present a strong
justification for the school conversion component – by far the largest component on the
project. It did not, for example, present evidence on quality differences or differences in
labor-market outcomes between general secondary and commercial secondary schools.



                                            12
Nor did it consider potentially more cost-effective alternatives to commercial school
conversion – such as the use of available places in existing general secondary schools, or
the improvement of commercial schools by updating their curricula and improving their
facilities and staffing. Ultimately, the objective of increased general secondary
enrollments was pursued outside the project, by building new general secondary schools
under the Government’s ongoing school building program rather than by conversion of
commercial schools (Section 3.1). The analysis in the PAD did not discuss this
possibility of meeting the goal of increased general school enrollments through this
activity rather than through project-financed commercial school conversion.

Incomplete Social Analysis and Public Awareness Outreach. As explained by several
supervision missions, the school conversion program was suspended because of public
resistance to school conversion (Section 1.6). Many parents of girls – especially in rural
areas -- opposed conversion of these schools to general secondary schools because they
considered that a technical school diploma offered their daughters better opportunities for
employment and marriage than a diploma from a general secondary school. Social
analysis during project preparation could have identified this concern as a possible
obstacle to implementation of school conversion, and could have addressed it either
through a change in the component design or through a public awareness campaign to
help overcome parental resistance to school conversion.

Incomplete Preparation of School Grant Activity. As described above (Section 1.6),
the November, 2007 project supervision mission reported that school grants were
dropped from the project “due to the difficulties that would be encountered in tracking
the funds, as project funds are not allowed to be disbursed directly to schools.?36

The fact that the activity had to be dropped from the project due to non-feasibility of
implementation is an indication that the activity was not adequately prepared. The
problems that emerged at the start of implementation could have been detected through
due diligence in preparing the project. Technical problems in implementing school
grants are a familiar problem in Bank-financed projects. It was already a well-established
practice in the Bank at the time of SEEP preparation to pilot school grants during project
preparation in order to identify and address potential problems in school grant
implementation. This lesson learned in implementation of other projects was apparently
not taken on board during preparation of the SEEP. It emerged, however, during SEEP
implementation. A supervision mission in 2002 reported that the Government had
decided to delay implementation of school improvement grants under the SEEP project
until they had been piloted under the ongoing EEP project.37

This plan was not followed up; the experience of the school grant pilot under the EEP
was not mentioned in any subsequent supervision reports or Aides Mémoires, nor was
there an effort to revive the school grant activity under the SEEP. Another indication of
incomplete preparation of the school grant activity is that it is not mentioned in the
project design summary in Annex 1 of the PAD among the activities to support
devolution of school management under component two of the project, and no
performance indicators are provided to track implementation progress.



                                            13
Lack of a Baseline for Evaluation of Development Outcomes. Annex 14 in the PAD
states that “as part of project preparation, a tracer study combining both retrospective
and prospective approaches will be carried out to provide a baseline for measuring the
success of SEEP interventions.? 38 In fact, no baseline survey was ever carried out;
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were neglected throughout project implementation
(Sections 2.3 and 3.2). Lack of a project baseline and of suitable outcome indicators
means that development outcomes of the project cannot be observed directly, but must be
inferred on the basis of indirect evidence.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

Project implementation was adversely affected by staffing discontinuities and by lack of
team staff with interest and expertise in monitoring and evaluation and in the qualitative
dimensions of the project (Section 5). This was true of staffing particularly on the
Borrower side, but staffing discontinuities also affected Bank supervision. Frequent
changes in Ministers of Education – with six successive Ministers between 2004 and
2012 – led to serious delays and discontinuities. Examples of ministerial decisions that
delayed implementation were the change of implementation responsibility from the
PPMU to the Educational Support Foundation and the decision to subject all project
implementation decisions to Steering Committee review (Section 5). An important
reason for the unusually long implementation period for the project was the
Government’s reluctance to relinquish concessionary funds under this final International
Development Association (IDA) operation. The Government made strong appeals for
each of the four extensions of the project closing date. On the occasion of the 2010
extension, the project team recommended closing the project, but the Country
Department supported another extension (and ultimately a fourth extension) in the
interest of maintaining country relations. Despite the shortcomings that necessitated four
closing date extensions, the prolonged implementation did provide an opportunity to
extend the dialogue with the Government on the importance of the educational changes
sought under the project, and to achieve more project outputs than would have been
possible if the project were closed earlier.

As described below, SEEP implementation was also significantly affected by the
suspension of commercial school conversion and its replacement with general school
upgrading. In addition to the effects of that change, a decision by the Government that
was not related to the project – restoration of six-year primary schooling – also had
implications for project implementation. Civic and political disruption associated with
the 2011 revolution also contributed to delays in project implementation and in release of
official enrollment statistics for recent years

Suspension of Commercial School Conversion. The decision to suspend the conversion
of commercial schools to general schools in 2004 and to use the funds allocated for that
activity instead for upgrading general secondary schools fundamentally altered the
approach of the largest component of the project -- from expanding general education



                                           14
capacity to improving general education quality, and from converting commercial
schools to upgrading existing general secondary schools. It also raised a question about
whether this new activity was consistent with the original PDO and project description as
presented in the PAD and the DCA. As stated on page 2 of the PAD, the Project
Development Objective provides both a general objective – “to improve the quality and
opportunity in secondary education? – and four specific instruments for achieving that
objective, including “by increasing access to general secondary education through
upgrading commercial schools to general secondary schools and providing flexible
options for study within and between branches of the system.?39

While the upgrading of existing general secondary schools is consistent with the PDO’s
general objective, it is not consistent with any of the four specific instruments which the
PDO provides for achieving its general objective. As stated in the PDO, the rationale for
the school conversion component was to improve access to general secondary education.
Upgrading existing general secondary schools presumably improved teaching and
learning conditions in those schools, but did not improve access to general secondary
education, since the upgrading effort did not increase schools’ capacity. Upgrading
existing general secondary schools also does not fall under any of the other three
instruments specified in the PDO for improving secondary education quality and
opportunity (Section 3.1). The suspension of commercial school conversion also raises
an important question about the original rationale for the school conversion component
(Section 3.1).

Lengthened Primary Cycle. In 1988, as a cost-saving measure, the Government
shortened the primary-schooling cycle to five years, leaving the content and duration of
preparatory and secondary education unchanged. But student performance in preparatory
and secondary schooling suffered as a result of the shortened primary cycle, and in 2005
the Government reinstated the sixth year of primary schooling. These changes in the
duration of the primary-school cycle caused significant disruption in education programs.
In the initial year of shortened primary schooling, students completing both grade 5 and
grade 6 were admitted to the first year of preparatory schooling, leading to a very large
cohort that strained classroom and teacher capacity as it made its way through
preparatory and secondary education. This ripple in enrollments was mirrored by an
enrollment deficit when the sixth year of primary education was restored in 2005. In that
school year as students from grade 5 entered the reinstated sixth grade, the only
enrollments in the first year of preparatory schooling were repeater students from the first
year of preparatory schooling. Preparatory and secondary enrollments remained below
normal for the next five years as this small cohort of “gap year? students made its way
through preparatory and secondary schooling. Normal enrollments resumed only in 2011.
These depressed enrollments during the six years of transition to the restored six-year
primary cycle make it difficult to compare secondary enrollments and student
performance in the years 2008 through 2010 with enrollments and performance in the
prior years (Section 3.2).

Civic and Political Disruption. There was widespread civic and political disruption
during the last two years of project implementation as a result of the 2011 revolution and
its aftermath. Although it is not specifically acknowledged in the project record, this


                                            15
disruption presumably contributed to the delays in project implementation that
necessitated the final two closing date extensions, as well as the delays in release of
official enrollment statistics for the final years of project implementation (Section 3.2).

Mid-Term Review. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was carried out in March
2005, just fifteen months before the original project Closing Date. Review findings are
summarized in the ISR of the MTR mission.40

There is no record in the project file of an Aide Mémoire for the MTR mission. As noted
during the MTR, implementation progress up to that point was limited largely to
hardware procurement (facilities and equipment) under the school conversion component.
The MTR attributed the lack of progress on the “quality-related activities? under the
project - including training and reform of curriculum and assessment – to “the inhibitive
reform context in the Ministry of Education.? The MTR also reported that monitoring
and evaluation under the project was “unsatisfactory.? With the exception of monitoring
and evaluation, for which it included specific recommended actions, the MTR did not
propose specific actions to address the implementation obstacles. It also did not discuss
the unresolved issues with the school conversion component following the suspension of
commercial school conversion in 2004 (Sections 2.2 and 3.1).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design. PAD Annex 14, “Social Assessment and
Evaluation Component,? acknowledged the importance of tracer studies and employer
surveys for evaluating the development outcomes of project interventions, and describes
a tracer study that was to be carried out during project preparation “to provide a baseline
for measuring the success of SEEP interventions.? 41 It also described the employer
survey and graduate tracer study that was to be carried out during implementation to
determine the labor-market and higher education experiences of graduates from project
schools and control-group schools. Annex 1 also listed monitoring instruments
(including tracer studies) for each of the project development objectives and project
outputs. But the only mention of these activities in the body of the PAD was the
performance indicators that are listed on page 2 of the PAD. These activities are not
otherwise described or discussed in the text of the PAD – either under the description of
project objectives, project components, or implementation arrangements. The only
mention of M&E in the text of the PAD is the statement that “The Planning,
Programming, and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) has the overall responsibility of project
planning and monitoring.?42 Even that briefest of references fails to mention evaluation
as an essential part of M&E.

The DCA includes a dated covenant that the Borrower will provide to the Bank by April
30, 2003 a report which reviews the outputs of the project and the progress made in
achievement of its development objectives, as well as a description of the measures
which are necessary to achieve project output and outcome targets during the remaining
term of the project, and will by June 30, 2003 review this report with the Bank and take
all necessary measures to complete the project efficiently.43



                                            16
Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation. Despite the elaborate plans for outcome
evaluations presented in Annex 14 and Annex 1 of the PAD, the only M&E actually
carried out under the project consisted of monitoring outputs. There was no evaluation of
project development outcomes during implementation and no baseline established as a
basis for such an evaluation. A stakeholders’ workshop which was held in the final
months of implementation 44 assessed stakeholders’ reported perceptions of the
effectiveness of project interventions, but there was no evaluation of actual effectiveness
in terms of higher-level outcomes, including new concepts and skills learned, changes in
teaching practices, learning outcomes for students, or labor-market and higher-education
outcomes.

To put that situation in perspective, it is important to recognize that evaluation of the
impact of interventions which are designed to improve learning and labor-market
outcomes of education is intrinsically more difficult than for any other category of
development interventions. Rigorous evaluation of interventions to improve student-
learning outcomes requires highly technical skills in design of assessment instruments, as
well as a very demanding experimental design for treatment and control groups. It is also
very costly. Even when such evaluation is well planned from the start, parents’ resistance
to having their children assigned to a control group (and therefore denied the advantages
of improved educational inputs) often makes this approach politically infeasible. Labor-
market outcomes are difficult to evaluate for another reason – because of the time lag that
occurs between the intervention (improved education inputs) and employment outcomes.
Tracer studies often suffer from low significance and bias because of low response rates,
due to the inherent difficulty in tracking students’ labor-market movements after
graduation. For all these reasons, rigorous evaluation of learning outcomes and labor-
market outcomes in Bank-financed education projects is rarely achieved.

Despite this caveat, however, it is difficult to overlook the fact that monitoring and
evaluation received essentially no attention from Bank supervision missions during the
first four years of project implementation. The first 13 ISRs, from May 1999 through
May 2004 reported the same issue and action for monitoring and evaluation:

                  Issue                                             Action
“PPMU needs to establish a strong monitoring        “PPMU will establish a monitoring and
         and evaluation system?                     evaluation system by hiring an expert in
                                                          monitoring and evaluation?

Despite the lack of progress in developing a monitoring and evaluation plan and the fact
that the dated covenant on monitoring was actually in non-compliance when the last three
of these ISRs were archived, the first 13 ISRs rated M&E progress as “satisfactory.? The
November 2004 ISR was the first to rate M&E performance as “unsatisfactory,? but it
provided neither a reason for the downgrading nor proposed corrective actions. It also
erroneously reported that the project was in compliance with all project covenants. The
Mid-Term Review mission of March 2005 maintained the “unsatisfactory? M&E rating
and reported that the project was in non-compliance with the dated covenant on M&E for
failing to establish a monitoring and evaluation reporting system.45



                                               17
It reported that the PPMU agreed that a full-time expert on M&E would be recruited by
May 2005. The March 2005 Mid-Term Review mission established several benchmarks
as a condition for the Bank’s consideration of the Government’s request for an extension
of the project Closing Date from June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008.46

Among those benchmarks was a requirement that the Government develop a suitable
monitoring and evaluation plan and recruit a qualified monitoring and evaluation
specialist to lead M&E implementation. The October 2005 supervision mission reported
that all benchmarks were fulfilled and on that basis recommended that the extension be
approved, even though the monitoring and evaluation specialist had not been recruited.47

Bank supervision of monitoring and evaluation improved after 2007 with the arrival of a
new team leader, a new education sector manager and a new Country Director (Section
5.1b), but these efforts were not able the make up for the neglect of monitoring and
evaluation during project preparation and the first years of implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial management under the project was briefly rated as “unsatisfactory? by two
SEEP supervision missions in 2010 after a 2009 Special Purpose Financial Management
Review recommended an external audit and quantification of payment of bonuses and
severance to consultants as well as seconded employees from other ministries in order to
establish their eligibility for financing under the project. Since this review had not yet
occurred at the time of the 2010 missions, project financial management performance
was temporarily rated as “unsatisfactory.? The June 2011 mission reported that the
financial management issues raised by the 2009 Special Purpose Review had been
resolved, but was still awaiting implementation of recommended improvements in
financial management reporting. On that basis, it upgraded the rating for financial
management performance from “unsatisfactory? to “moderately unsatisfactory.?

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Despite the urgings of the last several supervision missions, the Government did not
prepare a plan for maintenance and continuation of the actions launched under the project.
A number of actions – including approval and introduction of the 10th-grade common
core curriculum and preparation of new textbooks under the new curriculum framework –
need to be followed up to ensure that the actions carried out under the project deliver
their intended benefits.




                                            18
3. Assessment of Outcomes

The project is rated as “marginally unsatisfactory? for outcomes, based on “marginally
unsatisfactory? ratings for relevance, efficacy, and efficiency, as explained below.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation is rated as “marginally
unsatisfactory.? Although the overall objective of improved quality and relevance of
secondary education was and remains highly relevant to current development priorities
and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies,48 there are important
questions about the appropriateness of school conversion -- the largest component of the
project -- as an instrument for improved opportunity. Additional shortcoming of project
design involves the over-ambitiousness of the specific goals for educational change, the
lack of a satisfactory monitoring and evaluation design, and failure to detect the
constraints that led to suspension of school conversion and school grants.

A major objective of the project is to provide more market-relevant skills by increasing
the share of general secondary enrollments. This objective is consistent with the Bank’s
education policy and with much of the Bank’s recent work in the education sector:
general secondary education is often seen as providing more job flexibility and better
preparation in the skills most valued by employers–including quantitative, scientific, and
problem-solving skills–than does technical or vocational education. However, the
rationale provided in the project documentation for the component that addresses the
enrollment composition issue and accounts for more than 80% of project expenditures is
deficient in two respects: first, in establishing the need for changing the composition of
secondary school enrollments to give greater attention to general education and less to
technical education, and, second, in justifying conversion of commercial schools to
general secondary schools as the most appropriate instrument for achieving that
composition. As implemented, the project gave disproportionate attention to school
conversion as an instrument of greater flexibility among education programs, to the
neglect of other actions to improve flexibility. (See “Flexible Options for Study? under
“Outcomes? in Section 3.2.)

The PAD presents a weak rationale for supporting the reform program target of 50%
technical enrollment and 50% general enrollment in secondary education. That rationale
is based largely on assertions and assumptions, 49 rather than on evidence. The only
evidence-based part of the PAD’s rationale for moving to the target mix of
general/secondary enrollments is that only 5% of technical secondary students progress to
higher education. In Annex 4, the PAD presents an elaborate benefit-cost analysis of the
project, but its findings are based on unsupported assumptions about earnings of
graduates from upgraded schools. There is no comparison of the actual earnings or
employment experience of general secondary and technical secondary graduates in the
labor market (discussed in Section 3.3), and no discussion of earnings differentials for
technical and general school graduates as a rationale for school conversion.



                                                19
Apart from the question of the appropriateness of the goal of increasing the share of
technical secondary enrollments, there is also a question about the appropriateness of
school conversion as an instrument for achieving that goal. Several early supervision
missions reported (Section 1.6) that the enrollment target could be met more easily by
other means -- by lowering the admission threshold for entry into existing general
secondary schools with excess capacity, and by giving priority to building new general
secondary schools under the Government’s ongoing school building program and
building no new secondary commercial schools. Ambiguity in the rationale for this, the
largest component of the project, is particularly significant because it affects the nature
and appropriateness of the school conversion and upgrading actions carried out under the
project. These actions account for by far the largest share of planned project
expenditures -- US$199 million of the US$250 million total planned project expenditures,
and further augmented when the school fund component was deleted from the project.

If there had been excess capacity in existing general secondary schools as the June 2004
mission reports, this should have been acknowledged and reflected in project design.
And if indeed there were excess capacity in general secondary schools, the project’s
support for creation of additional general secondary school capacity through school
conversion would presumably not be needed, at least to the same degree. Yet the PAD
includes no mention of excess capacity in existing general secondary schools, or
discussion of how excess capacity could help meet the Reform Program’s enrollment
targets.50 The supply/demand analysis presented in the PAD as a basis for the school
conversion component 51 is based on unsubstantiated assumptions about how improved
quality of secondary education was expected to motivate higher overall demand for
secondary education. This does not establish a justification for conversion of commercial
schools to general secondary schools. Not only is it based on assumption rather than
evidence; it also does not differentiate between technical and general secondary
enrollments and does not examine the alternative of meeting the reform program’s
enrollment target through the planned expansion of secondary technical and general
education school capacity under the Government’s ongoing school construction program.

A more basic question that can be raised about the rationale for the school conversion
component is whether the Reform Program’s enrollment goal could have and should have
been met through new general secondary school construction under the Government’s
ongoing school construction program rather than through project-supported school
conversion. In its presentation of project alternatives considered and rejected, the PAD
stated that: “The Government chose not to construct new schools under the project.
Although access to secondary education remains an issue, the Government has a
significant construction program for new schools as demonstrated by the fact that almost
all triple-shift secondary schools have disappeared.?52 And in its supply and demand
analysis, the PAD stated that: “The existence of a significant number of shift secondary
schools (with 22% of enrollment) should be seen as an accommodation to student
demand, rather than an indication of an overall supply constraint. A second indicator of
the Government’s success in accommodating demand for secondary places is the large-
scale school-building program of recent years.?53




                                            20
These statements appear to undermine the rationale for the school conversion component
under the project. They appears to say that access goals in secondary education could be
met through the Government’s vigorous ongoing school construction program for
secondary schools, and do not need project resources to help augment school capacity.
Indeed, implementation experience under the project revealed that situation to be true:
When the Government suspended the school conversion program in 2004, it asserted that
it could still meet the target of raising the share of general secondary enrollments in
overall secondary enrollment by constructing new general secondary schools (but not
technical secondary schools) under its ongoing school construction program rather than
through project-financed school conversion. This approach has been endorsed by all
SEEP supervision missions since 2003, as well as by the 2010 Project Restructuring
(Sections 1.6 and 1.7). Since the suspension of school conversion, all project documents
report that the Government’s ongoing school construction program is expected to
eventually meet the original 50% target for general school enrollments, and to meet the
revised target of 40% general secondary enrollments by project closing. If the
Government’s ongoing school construction program could meet the Reform Program
enrollment goal -- as it is in fact doing since the suspension of school conversion -- it is
not clear why the project should have supported school conversion.54

Implementation experience revealed that the project’s specific goals for change in
education programs and processes were over-ambitious. Annex 2 lists the 23 specific
results that were sought under the project. Four of these involve upgrading of facilities or
delivery of training, and were overachieved during implementation. The other eighteen
results sought under the project involved changes in educational programs, processes, or
behavior of teachers, school managers and students. A flavor of the ambitiousness of
these targets is provided by two examples: a) development of a new curriculum
framework by 2000 and development and implementation of a new scheme of core
courses under that curriculum framework by 2003; and b) development and validation of
new instruments for assessing the quality of school facilities, management, and teaching
by 2003. Even with four closing-date extensions and 13 years of project implementation,
only two of these 18 targets were confirmed as achieved. For most of them, there was no
record of progress or effort of any kind. The single area of tangible progress in education
program reform – the development and approval of a new curriculum framework – has
yet to be implemented. There were also modest improvements in processes for
promoting teachers and for selecting school principals. In hindsight, this experience
reveals how overambitious the project appraisal team and sector management were in
setting performance goals for the project.

In addition to the problems of appropriateness of the school conversion component and
over-ambitiousness of aims for educational change, there were several deficiencies in
project design, described elsewhere in the ICR. These include:
         incomplete social analysis of school conversion component;
         incomplete preparation of school fund activity; and
         neglect of monitoring and evaluation.




                                            21
These shortcomings in project preparation contributed significantly to problems that
arose during implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

The project is rated as “marginally unsatisfactory? for achievement of project
development objectives, based on the extent to which the project objectives were
achieved or are expected to be achieved, as explained below.

Outputs. The project made significant progress against its output goals, and
overachieved project targets for rehabilitation of facilities and training (Annex 2).
Significant project outputs include the following:
    conversion of 205 commercial schools into secondary general schools,
        representing 65% of the planned target of 315, plus unplanned upgrading of 593
        existing general secondary schools;
    completion of a new outcomes and standards-based, modern curriculum
        framework for secondary education;
    development of a unified 10th grade core curriculum for technical and general
        secondary schools;
    training of almost 86,000 teachers in the converted schools on use of upgraded
        facilities and equipment;
    training of 48,000 teachers in the converted and upgraded schools in more
        effective teaching methods;
    training of 70,000 secondary-school principals and deputy principals in use of
        technology in school management and in other modern methods of school
        management;
       training of staff at the national examinations center on modern assessment
        methodologies and Egypt’s participation in the 2007 TIMSS international student
        assessment in science and math;55 and
       training of over 1,000 local school Boards of Trustees in their roles in support of
        school functions, including monitoring school quality.

Outcomes. In contrast to the situation for project outputs, there is much less evidence of
progress against the project’s development outcomes. As noted below (Section 3.2) and
in Annex 2, only one of the targeted changes in education programs and processes was
fully implemented. Implementation efforts by the Government and supervision efforts by
the Bank reflected insufficient attention to project outcomes throughout implementation
(Section 5b). The fulfillment status of project development objective indicators and
intermediate results indicators at closing is summarized in the following tables. A fuller
record of accomplishments against project goals is presented in Annex 2.

               PDO Indicator                                  Status at Closing
Share of general secondary students increases    Apparently achieved. 43.4 % general
from 30% to 40% by 2010 (revised from            secondary enrollments for 2010/2011 school



                                                22
“…50% by 2006?)                                 year, according to data provided to the mission
                                                by the MOE, but other MOE information
                                                reports a lower figure.56
Share of technical secondary graduates entering Not confirmed. Data not available.
higher education rises from 5% to 8%
Employability of secondary-school graduates     Not confirmed. No tracer studies carried out,
from project schools improves as assessed by    but rate-of-return evidence suggests that this
tracer studies.                                 objective was not met (Section 3.3).
Graduates from project schools achieve good     Not confirmed, but other evidence suggests that
pass marks on school leaving examination as     this objective was not met (Section 3.3).
compared to non-upgraded schools.
At least 70% of school management teams in      Not confirmed. School management teams
project schools are judged competent in these   were trained and reported satisfaction with
duties as outlined in new job criteria by 2012  training, but impact of training on skill
(revised from “….by 2006?).                     acquisition was not tested and impact on
                                                application was not observed. New job criteria
                                                were not developed as a basis for judging
                                                competence.
Curriculum and assessment aligned.              Not achieved. A new curriculum framework
                                                was developed and found satisfactory, but there
                                                was little progress in aligning assessment
                                                methods and instruments with that framework.

      Intermediate Results Indicator                              Status at Closing
A core curriculum framework developed,              Achieved. Core and elective curricula and
including the curriculum for core subject areas.    some related materials were developed for
(Revised from “a framework and common core          general and technical education. But the
courses developed for a comprehensive and           political decision to implement the new
unified secondary curriculum.?)                     framework, including the common 10th grade
                                                    core curriculum has not yet been taken.
At least 30% of project schools comply with         Achieved. 30% of project schools comply with
minimum accreditation standards with respect        national accreditation standards for facilities
to infrastructure and learning equipment.           and learning equipment.
(Added in 2010 Restructuring.)
Core subject matter teachers in participating       Not confirmed. 11,000 teachers in
schools master the new curriculum framework.        participating schools trained in new
(Added in 2010 Restructuring)                       curriculum, but impact of training on mastery
                                                    of the new curriculum framework was not
                                                    tested or observed.
Board of Trustees set up in all project schools.    Achieved. All project schools have Boards of
(Revised from “School management                    Trustees, but there is little evidence that they
responsibilities devolved to local level?)          are actively involved in quality monitoring and
                                                    other school affairs.
School administrators in project schools are        Not confirmed. School administrators in
competent in the use of ICT for enhanced            project schools received training in use of ICT
school management. (Added in 2010                   for management, but impact of training on
Restructuring.)                                     management competency was not tested nor
                                                    was an instrument developed to assess
                                                    management competencies.57




                                                   23
   School Conversion. Conversion of 205 commercial schools to general secondary
    schools under the project contributed to the apparent overachievement of the
    revised secondary-school enrollment target of 40% general school enrollments:
    according to data provided to the ICR mission by the MOE, 43.4 % of secondary
    enrollments were in general secondary schools during the 2010/2011 school year.58 (As
    described in endnote 53, other MOE data report a lower figure.) In principle, it did so
    by simultaneously raising the number of student places in general schools and
    reducing the number of student places in technical schools. Since there was
    already excess capacity of technical-school places at the start of school
    conversion (Section 3.1), school conversion contributed to achieving the
    enrollment target principally by expanding the number of student places in
    general schools rather than by reducing the number of places in technical schools.
    The Government’s ongoing school building program also contributed to
    achievement of the enrollment objective. Attributing an appropriate share of the
    credit to each of these sources – conversion of commercial schools to general
    schools under the project and creation of new general-school places under the
    Government’s ongoing school building program -- would require a more refined
    analysis which takes into account the evolution of the number of entry-level
    students, enrollment constraints in general education (including teacher
    constraints), excess capacity in technical education schools, evolution of multiple-
    shift schools, and the evolution of new student places in general education schools
    through, respectively, conversion of commercial schools to general schools and
    creation of new general-school places through the Government’s ongoing school
    building program.

   Flexible Options for Study. According to the PDO, another instrument for
    increasing access to general secondary education under the project was to have
    been the development of “flexible options for study within and between branches
    of the system.?59
    As described in the Project Results Summary,60 this effort was to have comprised
    several activities, including: a) development of a new curriculum framework; b)
    training of teachers and school managers in the new curriculum framework; c)
    development of common core courses; d) development of specializations and
    electives; and e) development of equitable mechanisms to allow students to
    transfer between streams. For only the first two of these activities was there any
    tangible progress under the project (See Annex 2 for details).

   Curriculum Development. The new common core curriculum framework which
    was developed under the project was reviewed and found consistent with the
    Government’s objectives and with international best practice. The Ministry of
    Education issued a decree authorizing private publishers to develop new
    textbooks under the new curriculum framework for competitive selection. A new
    unified core curriculum for 10th grade has been developed and submitted for
    approval by the Minister of Education. The common core curriculum was
    intended to be implemented in both general secondary schools and technical
    secondary schools as a means of providing greater flexibility between the general



                                          24
    and technical education streams. Delays in approval and implementation have
    been attributed to the disruptions surrounding the 2011 revolution and its
    aftermath. 61

   Training. As summarized in the above description of project outputs, five types
    of training were carried out under the project, including training of almost 86,000
    teachers in converted schools on use of upgraded facilities and equipment and
    training of 48,000 teachers in converted and upgraded schools in more effective
    teaching methods. Evaluations of training effectiveness were conducted under the
    project, typically at the conclusion of each training session. A retrospective
    evaluation was also carried out in the May 2012 stakeholders’ consultation and
    evaluation workshop (Annex 6). This evaluation consisted of participants’
    reported levels of satisfaction with the training (often referred to as “level 1
    evaluation? 62 ) and evaluators’ observations on the effectiveness of training
    delivery (including availability of resources, use of teaching strategies, attendance
    rates etc.) and on interview data from participants, trainers, and others involved
    on the quality and relevance of program content and the effectiveness of delivery.
    The evaluations of project-supported training reported a high level of participant
    satisfaction with the training that they received, but they do not shed light on the
    actual outcomes of training. More revealing insights on training outcomes would
    require higher-order evaluation that looks at: a) learning outcomes, or actual new
    knowledge and skills acquired through training as evaluated by a post-training
    assessment examination (level 2 evaluation), b) behavior outcomes, or actual
    application of new knowledge and skills as assessed by observation in the
    workplace (level 3 evaluation), or c) result outcomes as measured by various
    measures of productivity such as student learning achievement or eventual labor-
    market performance (level 4 evaluation). Although Annex 1 of the PAD includes
    observation of training outcomes (level 3 evaluation) among the monitoring and
    evaluation instruments that were to be used to assess the impacts for project-
    supported training, this observation of actual outcomes of project-supported
    training did not take place. Admittedly, evaluation of higher-order outcomes of
    teacher training is difficult, and rarely achieved in Bank-financed operations.

   Upgrading Existing General Secondary Schools. An important unplanned
    activity under the project was the upgrading of 593 existing general secondary
    schools through the provision of computer labs, science labs, multimedia rooms,
    and furniture and equipment (including books for school libraries). Although this
    activity was neither included in the project description nor implied by the PDO, it
    was expected to make an important contribution to the project’s general objective
    of improved education quality by improving teaching and learning conditions in
    project schools. A major thrust of the project-supported training was to equip
    teachers and school managers to use the upgraded facilities and equipment
    effectively. Although there were no outcome measures of the effect of school
    upgrading on student learning, there was an output measure in the form of
    certification of school upgrading to meet the infrastructure standards set by the
    National Quality Assurance and Accreditation Authority for Education



                                         25
       (NAQAAE). Forty-seven of the 593 upgraded general secondary schools have
       received this NAQAAE certification.63 A study conducted in Egypt in 2006 64
       however, raises questions about whether school upgrading did in fact lead to
       improved student learning. The study examined the effects of several variables,
       including availability of specialized school facilities on student performance in
       the national general secondary school certification examination, a uniform
       standardized exam developed by the Central Directorate for Examinations and
       administered in all general secondary schools. Using data for all 1,942 public and
       private general secondary schools in Egypt for the 2002/2003 school year and
       controlling for other variables, the study looked at the effect on student
       performance of availability of computer labs, science labs, libraries and other
       specialized facilities – the same types of facilities which were provided to general
       secondary schools under the project after the suspension of commercial school
       conversion. The study found no consistent relationship between variations in
       school resources and student achievement. Another finding that raises question
       about the outcome of school upgrading under the project is that the science
       laboratories which were provided to schools as part of the project-supported
       upgrading of general secondary schools are underutilized because most students
       select a humanities specialization rather than a science specialization.65

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The project is rated as “marginally unsatisfactory? for efficiency, based on the extent to
which the project achieved or is expected to achieve expected benefits at least cost
compared to alternatives. The reservations described above about the appropriateness of
commercial school conversion – by far the largest component of the project – and the
research evidence described below suggest that this instrument was not a least-cost
approach for bringing about improved opportunity in secondary education. This ICR
does not attempt to update the cost-benefit analysis that was provided in the PAD.
Because that analysis was based on unsubstantiated assumptions about how enrollments
might respond to school upgrading and how school upgrading might affect graduate
earnings, it would be pointless to do so.

According to PAD Annex 14 and PAD Annex 1, the employment and earnings outcomes
of school conversion were to be evaluated on the basis of tracer studies of the labor-
market experiences of graduates of these schools by comparison to those of graduates of
control-group schools. Done properly, this analysis would have provided valuable
insights on the labor-market outcomes of school conversion and the associated
investments in upgraded facilities and teacher competence under the project.
Unfortunately, it was not done.

Lacking that information, the most appropriate sources of information on the outcomes of
project interventions are indirect. Indirect evidence is available from the recent research
literature that can shed light on the labor-market outcomes of the two largest actions



                                            26
under the project: school conversion (from commercial secondary schools to general
secondary schools), and upgrading of general secondary schools:

      School Conversion. A recent research paper by staff of the Bank’s Cairo office
       raises further questions about the appropriateness of school conversion under the
       project. Whereas most earlier studies of labor-market outcomes in Egypt have
       looked at the returns to education only by level of attainment, the authors of this
       study use the findings of the 1998 Egyptian Labor Market Survey of 1998 (based
       on a sample size of 24,000) and of the 2006 Egypt Labor Market Panel Survey
       (based on a sample size of 37,000) to examine the returns to education for
       disaggregated categories of labor-market participants, including those who
       formerly attended general secondary schools and those who formerly attended
       technical secondary schools. The authors find that the returns to general
       secondary education in Egypt were higher than the returns to technical secondary
       education in 1998, but lower than the returns to technical secondary education in
       2006. 66 It is particularly significant that the relationship between returns to
       general and technical education reversed itself between 1998 – ironically, the year
       of SEEP identification – and 2006 -- the original closing date for the SEEP. What
       this suggests is that the labor-market advantage brought about by converting
       commercial schools to general secondary schools under the project is likely to be
       significantly less than anticipated on the basis of earnings patterns at the time of
       project identification and appraisal, and could even be negative. This finding
       raises yet another reservation about the appropriateness of the school conversion
       component.

      School Upgrading. After the Government’s decision to suspend conversion of
       commercial schools to general secondary schools, the remaining funds which had
       been allocated for school conversion plus unused funds from other components
       were used to upgrade 593 existing general secondary schools. Although general
       school upgrading was not explicitly included in the project description and the
       project’s PDO, it was expected that this action would lead to improved quality
       and opportunity in secondary education, the project’s overall objective. As noted
       above, recent research findings raise questions about whether school upgrading
       did in fact lead to improved student learning. Reports in the Government’s
       contribution to this ICR of underutilized science laboratories in upgraded schools
       raise further questions about the efficiency of school upgrading under the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The project is rated as “marginally unsatisfactory? for outcomes, based on “marginally
unsatisfactory? ratings for relevance, efficacy, and efficiency as explained in Sections 3.1
through 3.3, above.




                                             27
Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory.

Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation is rated as “marginally
unsatisfactory.? Although the overall objective of improved quality and relevance of
secondary education was and remains highly relevant to current development priorities
and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies,67 there were significant
shortcomings in project design and implementation. As explained above, there are
important questions about the appropriateness of school conversion -- the largest
component of the project -- as an instrument for improved opportunity. Other
shortcoming of project design include the over-ambitiousness of the specific goals for
educational change, lack of a satisfactory design for monitoring and evaluation, and the
fact that preparation of the school grant activity did not reveal the technical reasons that
led to its cancellation. The ICR notes that a QAG68 review rated the project’s quality at
entry as “highly satisfactory.? The very different rating provided in this ICR is based on
the relevance of project objectives, design and implementation as assessed at the time of
preparation of this ICR, consistent with OPCS 69 guidelines and based on evidence
available in the project file and summarized in Section 3.1 above.

Achievement of PDOs

Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory

The project is rated as “marginally unsatisfactory? for achievement of project
development objectives, based on the extent to which the project objectives were
achieved or are expected to be achieved. The project had many positive outputs,
including overachievement of its quantitative training target. It also made a major
unplanned contribution to upgrading existing secondary schools. But there were,
nonetheless, significant shortcomings in achievement of project objectives:
     Only one of its six key project indicators was confirmed as achieved, and that by a
       combination of actions inside the project and outside the project; one was not
       achieved; and four were not confirmed as achieved.
     None of the many planned changes in educational programs and governance
       under the project was actually implemented, with a single exception:
       incorporation of a performance indicator among the criteria for teacher promotion
       and selection of school principles. A new curriculum framework was developed
       and approved, but not implemented.
     Quantitative targets for training were overachieved, but there is no evidence that
       training led to improved skills or application of those skills to improved teaching
       and school management.
     There was no tangible progress in other project actions to improve flexibility in
       secondary education, including development of common core courses,
       development of specializations and electives, and development of equitable
       mechanisms to allow students to transfer between streams.



                                            28
Efficiency

Rating: Marginally Unsatisfactory

The project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory for achievement of objectives at least
cost compared to alternatives because of questions about the appropriateness of
commercial school conversion as an instrument of improved opportunity (Section 3.1).
Research evidence (Section 3.3) also raises questions about whether expenditures for
commercial school conversion and general school upgrading under the project in fact led
to the expected benefits of improved secondary education quality and opportunity.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Equity Effects. As described above (Section 1.4), the decision taken during
implementation to suspend conversion of commercial schools and to use the remaining
proceeds of the school conversion component to upgrade existing general secondary
schools added a new category of beneficiaries – students who attend the upgraded (but
not converted) general secondary schools. The component as originally designed aimed
to convert about 315 commercial schools to general secondary schools. As implemented,
it supported the conversion of 205 commercial schools into secondary general schools,
plus the upgrading of 593 existing general secondary schools, implying a significantly
larger total number of direct beneficiaries under the component. In doing so, however, it
may have diluted the activity’s equity-enhancing benefit: According to the rationale
provided in the PAD, students who historically attended technical secondary schools
faced poorer economic opportunities upon graduation. In Egypt, as in most countries
with segmented secondary schooling systems, students who attend technical schooling
are more likely to be from lower-income households than students who attend general
secondary schooling. The school conversion component was originally designed to allow
some of these students who would have gone to technical schools in the absence of the
school conversion component to improve their options by attending general secondary
schools instead. Since the beneficiaries of general-school upgrading were likely to be
already-privileged students who were admitted to general secondary schools, the
suspension of school conversion may have involved replacement of a small number of
lower-income beneficiaries with a larger number of higher-income beneficiaries, thereby
diluting the equity-enhancing benefits of the project (Section 3.2). This effect may have
been outweighed by the fact that many of the existing secondary schools selected for
upgrading under the project were located in relatively low-income areas. In any case,
research findings on the lack of significant correlation between upgraded school facilities
and student achievement (Section 3.3) suggest that those effects are likely to be modest
unless they are accompanied by significant improvements in use of those upgraded
facilities. This was a specific objective of the project-supported training.




                                               29
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

In addition to strengthening teaching skills, project-supported training helped strengthen
the capacity of education management staff at the central, regional, and local levels, as
well as the professional skills of staff at the national agencies for curriculum development
and assessment. Recipients have evaluated the training very positively, although its
impact on application (Level 3), and outcome (Level 4) of relevant skills has not been
assessed.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

As discussed above (Sections 3.3 and 3.5a) the project support for upgrading existing
general secondary schools following the suspension of commercial school conversion
may or may not have contributed to learning improvement in those schools. Gaps in
M&E make this outcome indeterminate.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The May 2012 stakeholders’ consultation and evaluation workshop (Section 3.2 and
Annex 6) assessed participants’ reported levels of satisfaction with project-provided
training and evaluators’ observations on the effectiveness of training delivery (including
availability of resources, use of teaching strategies, attendance rates etc.) and on
interview data from participants, trainers, and others involved on the quality and
relevance of program content and the effectiveness of delivery. The workshop involved
72 participants. Most of the participants were from agencies involved in project
implementation. Only 19 were teachers or school managers. Seventy-two percent of
participants reported that they were satisfied with SEEP’s contribution to project
objectives. Seventy-four percent of participants rated SEEP’s overall performance as
“moderately satisfactory.? The most revealing findings of the workshop were
participants’ reports of what they viewed as the project’s most significant achievements
and expected results that were not achieved. The most frequent responses to those
questions are summarized below:

            SEEP Achievements                               SEEP Disappointments
Development of a new curriculum framework         Non-implementation of new curriculum
                                                  framework
Effective use of technology in schools            Dilution of educational benefits through private
                                                  tutoring and other sources of student absences
Upgrading and establishing science and IT labs    Uninspired training delivery
Converting commercial schools into general        Insufficient attention to improving teaching
secondary schools                                 methodologies
Upgrading school libraries                        Insufficient attention to technology for school
                                                  management
Training for school librarians                    Perpetuation of separate schooling streams
                                                  rather than moving toward comprehensive
                                                  secondary schools


                                                 30
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The overall risk to achieving or sustaining the project development outcome is rated as
high because the Government lacks a plan for achieving the key educational outcomes
that were sought but not achieved under the project (Section 3.2). There are also other
sources of risk to achieving the project’s objectives. Public resistance to the conversion
of commercial schools to secondary general schools and the Government’s reversal of its
school conversion policy early in project implementation provides a valuable lesson on
the public’s sensitivity to some of the changes that the project sought to achieve. Full
implementation of the new curriculum framework that was developed under the project,
including development of a common core curriculum for 10th grade classes in technical
and general secondary schools, could also encounter public resistance when (and if) the
Government proceeds with implementation.

Secular and religious interests are in daily conflict in Egypt, reflecting their
fundamentally different beliefs and visions for Egypt’s future. Because of its role in
shaping future generations, education is always a coveted tool of persuasion in such
conflicts. It is likely to play the same role in Egypt’s current political struggles.
Conflicting aspirations of secular interests and religious interests could also affect some
of the education reforms that were supported under the SEEP. Curriculum reform, in
particular, could be vulnerable to competing political or religious interests, as it is even in
the United States. Another risk to implementation of the new curriculum comes from
another source: As one of the project supervision missions reported, private tutors resist
implementation of the new curriculum because they have vested interests in the current
rote-learning-based curriculum.70

Another risk element for sustainability of SEEP’s development objective is the possibility
of underutilization of science and computer laboratory facilities that were supported
under the project. The 2012 Stakeholders’ Workshop reported that students’ preference
for non-science specializations leads to underutilization of laboratory facilities in some
project schools. Another problem identified in the Stakeholders’ Workshop was the
problem of student absences due to private tutoring in the final year of secondary
schooling. Student absences could also lead to underutilization of the facilities and
equipment provided under the school conversion and upgrading component of the project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                              31
The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
The design deficiencies described above (Section 2.1 and 3.1) – including overambitious
targets for reform of education programs and processes, the absence of a suitable baseline
and monitoring and implementation for evaluation of outcomes, incomplete preparation
of the school grant activity, and the questionable rationale and incomplete social analysis
for conversion of commercial schools -- the largest component of the project -- reflect
significant shortcomings in Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry. These
deficiencies contributed to problems during implementation, including the cancellation of
the school grant activity and problems in responding to the suspension of commercial
school conversion early in implementation.

 (b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The quality of supervision is rated as moderately unsatisfactory, reflecting significant
problems in ensuring effective implementation of the project, particularly during the
initial years of project implementation. The first seven years of supervision neglected
project actions to improve education quality improvement and monitoring and evaluation,
including failure to react to violation of a dated covenant until two year after the date had
passed. A revealing example of less-than-diligent supervision during the initial years of
project implementation was that the first 14 ISRs repeated verbatim the same summary of
issues and actions, including: “issue – PPMU needs to establish a strong monitoring and
evaluation system,? and “action – PPMU will establish a monitoring and evaluation
system by hiring an expert in monitoring and evaluation.? A serious shortcoming of
supervision occurred in 2004, when Bank supervision missions inappropriately agreed,
apparently without management consultation, to the Government’s suspension of
commercial school conversion and its replacement with general school upgrading. It was
not until six years after the event that senior management was notified of the change,
even then without mention of the fundamental change in project approach that this
entailed. On their own, these shortcomings would have justified an “unsatisfactory?
rating. But later supervision efforts, particularly after the arrival of a new team leader,
new sector manager and new Country Director in 2007, showed a more serious resolve to
address the areas neglected during the earlier years of implementation. On their own,
these more recent supervision efforts would have merited a “satisfactory? rating. The
overall rating for supervision reflects this evolution. Because 75% of project
disbursements occurred during the first seven years of implementation, the overall rating
is more heavily weighted by the lower rating of early supervision.

Staffing decisions appear to have played a role in the change from initially unsatisfactory
supervision to more satisfactory supervision in the later years of project implementation.
There were several changes in project supervision responsibility during the thirteen years
of implementation. The headquarters-based education specialist that led project appraisal
in 1999 was responsible for project supervision for just one and a half years before
departing for a new assignment. At that point, just after project effectiveness in June



                                             32
2000 and the September 2000 project launch mission, responsibility for project
supervision was decentralized to the Cairo field office under two successive team leaders,
the second of whom was newly recruited from the USAID Cairo field staff. It was under
this team leader, who was inexperienced in Bank procedures, that the supervision team
agreed to the suspension of school conversion and its replacement with upgrading of
existing general secondary schools. Between March 2005 and January 2008, project
supervision was managed by a succession of four headquarters-based TTLs. The
education specialist who was named as TTL in January 2008 remained as TTL through
closing in October 2012, providing the first effective continuity in project supervision
under a team leader with the professional qualifications and experience to address the
quality issues which by then had become critical.

These changes in staffing are reflected in supervision performance. As noted by the
March 2005 Mid-Term Review, 71 progress up to that point was limited largely to
hardware procurement (facilities and equipment) under the school conversion component,
although – as discussed at length above -- there were important unresolved issues with
that component following the suspension of school conversion in 2004. There was very
little progress in implementing project activities that were designed to improve education
quality, including curriculum reform, teacher training, school grants, and monitoring and
evaluation.

One indication of supervision shortcomings during the first five years of implementation
was that the first 18 ISRs rated PDO and implementation as “satisfactory?, despite: a) the
lack of progress on most project activities, including non-compliance with the dated
covenant on monitoring and evaluation, b) the suspension of school conversion under the
largest component of the project, which called into question the attainment of the general-
education enrollment target and led to a disconnect between the PDO and project
activities, and c) the fact that slow implementation had already necessitated the first of
four closing-date extensions. The lack of progress in monitoring and evaluation was not
reflected in a downgraded M&E rating until November 2004, when supervision
management was relocated to headquarters-based staff. Shortly thereafter as the request
for the first Closing-Date extension was being finalized, the rating for monitoring and
evaluation was upgraded to “satisfactory,? despite the fact that an evaluation specialist
had not yet been recruited to lead implementation of monitoring and evaluation as earlier
agreed.72

The Mid-Term Review of the project occurred in March 2005, just fifteen months before
the initial Closing Date -- far too late to serve its intended purpose of initiating timely
corrective action on project issues. The review expressed concern about the lack of
progress on actions to improve education quality under the project and the absence of a
monitoring and evaluation plan and the staff to implement it. It did not mention the
unresolved issues related to the suspension of commercial school conversion and its
replacement with general school upgrading.

June 2007 – a year into the first extension of the project -- marked a turning point in
project supervision under a new TTL, a new Education Sector Manager, and a new



                                            33
Country Director. The June 2007 ISR was the first to report the long-standing problems
with project implementation – particularly, with the lack of Government action on the
common 10th grade curriculum for technical and general secondary schools and the delay
in progress on the general education enrollment target following the decision to suspend
conversion of commercial schools to general education schools -- and to reflect them in
down-graded “marginally satisfactory? ratings for PDO and overall implementation
progress. It was also the first time that the management team weighed in seriously and
constructively to address implementation problems, and to urge specific corrective action.
This new supervision team intervened creatively to bring about progress on the
educational change agenda under the project – for example, using Bank budget to hire a
consultant to help prepare a new curriculum framework and to organize an evaluation of
project-supported training. But there were limits to what these efforts could accomplish
in view of the shortcomings of project design and early supervision, the discontinuities
arising from continuing changes in ministerial responsibilities, and the political
disruptions of the Revolution and its aftermath.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall rating for overall Bank performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory, reflecting
the combined result of the ratings for Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and
quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for Government performance for the project is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory. As noted above, the thirteen-year implementation period for this project
is ipso facto evidence of less-than-full diligence in implementation performance by the
Government and supervision performance by the Bank. It was not until 2005 – six years
into implementation of the project – that the Government appointed a full-time project
manager. In addition, several actions by the Government during project implementation
– including the delays in implementing the new curriculum framework -- suggest a less-
than-full commitment to the objectives of the project, particularly for the quality
enhancement and monitoring and evaluation actions under the project.

Project implementation was adversely affected by staffing discontinuities and by lack of
team staff with interest and expertise in monitoring and evaluation and in the qualitative
dimensions of the project (Section 5). This was true of staffing particularly on the
Borrower side, but staffing discontinuities also affected Bank supervision. Frequent
changes in Ministers of Education – with six successive Ministers between 2004 and
2012 – led to serious delays and discontinuities. Examples of ministerial decisions that
delayed implementation were the replacement of the entire implementation team in
March 2010 and the shift of implementation management responsibilities from the PPMU



                                           34
to the Education Support Fund, and the creation in 2011 of a Ministerial Steering
Committee that constituted a further bureaucratic hurdle in project implementation. A
particular case of Steering Committee obstruction was its decision to stop implementation
of the planned second stage of training for School Board members under the project.73

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for implementing agency performance for the project is rated as “Moderately
Unsatisfactory.? In addition to the overall unenergetic implementation that necessitated
four closing date extensions, this rating is based on the consistent neglect of the quality
and evaluation dimensions of the project – including the PPMU’s non-responsiveness to
efforts by the Bank supervision team after 2007 to motivate more serious attention to the
qualitative dimensions of the project and to evaluation of project outcomes. The
implementation team at the Education Support Fund worked hard to complete school
upgrading and training activities during the final two and a half years of implementation
despite an almost-total lack of institutional memory following the 2010 staffing change
and shift in responsibilities from the PPMU. Nonetheless, implementation of the
qualitative and evaluative dimensions of the project continued to languish right up to
project closing. Creative actions by the supervision team, including use of Bank budget
to hire consultants for development of the new curriculum framework and for evaluation
of project-financed training, helped bring about some progress on lagging activities. But
these interventions could not compensate for the lack of educational commitment and
expertise on the part of the implementing agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for overall Borrower performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory, based on the
ratings and underlying assumptions presented above.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Project objectives should reflect the difficulty of education reform. In this first
venture into the secondary education subsector, goals for change in content and processes
should have been much more modest. Project teams and sector management need to
resist the temptation to try to fix all problems in a single operation – particularly, in a first
operation in a subsector.

The Results Framework is critical for aligning project design to desired outcomes.
As described above (Section 3.1), the insufficient attention to causal links in developing a
justification for the school conversion component led to important questions about the
rationale for the largest component of the project. Actual implementation experience
strongly suggests that school conversion was not necessary for achieving the reform
program objective of increasing the share of secondary enrollments in general education.



                                               35
This disconnect between interventions and objectives could have been avoided through
more meticulous care in developing the results framework for the project.

PDOs and indicators should be clear and consistent throughout project
documentation. The errors and inconsistencies in presentation of the PDO and the gaps
in performance indicators obscured the links between interventions and objectives in the
SEEP, and hindered project implementation. Statements of a project’s development
objective should be clear, logical, and consistent – ideally, repeated verbatim across
project documentation and throughout the course of project implementation. Key
performance indicators should reflect all of the main elements of the PDO.

Project restructuring should be timely, and appropriately directed.                 The 2010
project Restructuring was seriously late in reflecting changing implementation
circumstances. Even then it did not address the disconnect between the new activity –
upgrading general secondary schools -- and the project description and PDO instruments.
The Restructuring was also directed to senior management, without a documented
consideration of whether circumstances may have warranted Board approval. In order to
be the constructive tool that it is meant to be, project restructuring needs to be timely and
appropriately directed.

Effective implementation of monitoring and evaluation may require a new approach.
Design of the project seriously neglected outcome evaluation (Sections 2.1, 2.3). Despite
this neglect at entry, a number of Bank supervision missions worked with implementing
authorities to develop a meaningful evaluation strategy as implementation progressed.
But although several evaluation plans were developed through these efforts, the
Government failed to implement any of them. The neglect of outcome evaluation in
Bank-financed projects is not new. IEG’s review of Bank-financed education sector
lending over the decade 2110-2010 reported that:
       As is evident from in-depth analysis of the results of projects that explicitly aimed
       to improve learning and labor market outcomes, even when programs have been
       executed well, it has been difficult to assess whether they have had the intended
       impact because of weaknesses in M&E. The problem starts with conceptual
       weaknesses in the results framework that should link the activities or policies to
       intermediate and final outcomes, problems identifying reasonable indicators to
       measure all parts of the chain for both short- and long-term outcomes, and the
       failure to track other factors that could positively or negatively affect outcomes.
       In implementation, there is a strong emphasis on monitoring; evaluation—which
       would consider the counterfactual—has been greatly neglected. [Page 55,
       Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank Support to Education Since 2001: A Portfolio Note,
       December 28, 2010.]
Since impact evaluation generates external benefits for a global audience on what works,
but none of the patronage benefits and ribbon-cutting opportunities that civil works and
large-scale equipment procurement provide, it is not surprising that implementing
agencies rarely take impact evaluation seriously. In view of the global external
knowledge benefits of impact evaluation, it would make sense for the Bank or other
donors to finance project impact evaluation and to insist on access to the necessary


                                              36
performance documentation. Another approach would be for the Bank to use whatever
leverage is available during project implementation to ensure that outcome evaluation is
being taken seriously. Closing date extensions and other amendments offer a particularly
good leverage point for motivating better performance on outcome evaluation. With
eight project amendments and four closing-date extensions, the SEEP provided ample
opportunity for using such leverage to motivate better government performance on
evaluation. In at least one case, this was attempted under SEEP implementation, but the
effort failed when the supervision team reported that the M&E conditionality was met
when in fact progress was not satisfactory. Closing-date extensions should be granted
only after the implementing agency has taken corrective action to address the constraints
that have delayed project implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           37
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component 1: Improving
                                      177.7                318.3              179.1
Quality and Opportunity
Component 2: Strengthening
                                       15.3                  1.9               12.4
Institutional Capacity
            Total Baseline Cost       192.9                320.2              167.0
Physical Contingencies
                                       19.8                  0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       37.2                  0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs      250.0                320.2              128.0
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                 0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                 0.00               .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00                 0.00




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
Borrower                                          200.0       242.0       121.0
International Development
                                                    50.0            53.8         107.6
Association (IDA)




                                          38
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                      Egypt Secondary Education Enhancement Project
                               Key Performance Indicators2

                                                 Key
               Objective                     Performance           Baseline          End of Project
                                              Indicators
                                           Outcome/Impact
Project Development Objective                 Indicator                         Target          Actual
Improving Quality and Opportunity of       Share of general        30%         40%          43.4%3
Secondary Education by: a) increasing      secondary students
equality of opportunity in access to       increases from 30%
general secondary education through        to 40% by 2010
flexible options for study within and      (revised
between branches of the system, b)         from…“30% to
better aligning curricula and assessment   50% by 2006?).
with the skill needs of employers and
higher education, and c) providing
professional development for teachers
on the new curricula and assessment
techniques.
                                           Curriculum and          None        None         Not
                                           assessment aligned.     provided    specified    accomplished.
                                           Percentage of           5%          8%           Not
                                           technical secondary     (asserted                documented
                                           graduates entering      but not
                                           higher education        document
                                           rises from 5% to        ed)
                                           8%.
                                           Graduates from          None        None         Not
                                           project schools         provided    specified    documented
                                           achieve good pass
                                           marks on school
                                           leaving exam as
                                           compared to non-
                                           upgraded schools.
Strengthening Educational                  At least 70% of         None        70%          New job
Management. To strengthen the              school management       provided                 criteria not
capacity of the education system at the    teams are judged                                 developed.
central level and in selected              competent in duties
governorates and schools to deliver        as outlined in new
quality education by: a) better defining   job criteria by 2006.



2
  From PAD Annex 1, “Project Design Summary,? and 2010 Restructuring Paper, except for first sub-
objective, which is from PAD page 2 with the correction described in Section 1.2.

3
 Based on figures provided by the Ministry of Education to the ICR mission. UNESCO enrollment data
for 2010 lead to a considerably higher figure of 49.3% (table 3f, UNESCO Institute for Statistics online
database), while the 2011 OECD mission reports a lower figure of 38.7%.



                                                    39
responsibilities, b) strengthening
accountability mechanisms, and c)
providing professional development for
school heads and administrators.




                                                                                    End of Project
         Project Outputs                 Output Indicators        Baseline
                                                                                 Target      Actual
Flexible secondary education             50% of commercial        None          None         The 205
provided which maximizes                 schools converted to     provided.     provided.    commercial
opportunities available to all           general secondary                                   schools which
students.                                schools by 2006.                                    were converted
                                                                                             to general
                                                                                             secondary
                                                                                             schools under
                                                                                             the project
                                                                                             amounted to
                                                                                             28% of the 722
                                                                                             commercial
                                                                                             schools in
                                                                                             operation in
                                                                                             2001/2001.4
A framework of common core               New overall              No new        See          New
courses developed for a                  curriculum               curriculum,   preceding.   framework
comprehensive and unified                developed by 2000.       no core                    curriculum
secondary curriculum consisting of a     .                        courses.                   developed and
common core of essential skills and                                                          approved, but
competencies. Specialization                                                                 not
requirements for the various                                                                 implemented.
branches, and optional subjects
within each branch.
                                         Core courses                                        Core courses
                                         developed and                                       not developed.
                                         instituted by 2003                                  Specialization
                                                                                             requirements
                                                                                             and optional
                                                                                             subjects not
                                                                                             developed.
System of student evaluation             School-level                           See          No assessments
restructured to: a) validly assess       assessments for                        preceding.   developed.
common core courses, b) incorporate      common core                                         New common
a student diagnostic framework           subjects used at the                                core subjects
based on skills assessment, and c)       end of first                                        not
report students’ achievements and        secondary level in all                              implemented.
abilities in forms more suitable to      schools by 2005.
the requirements of further education
and the labor market.
                                         Profiles of                            See          Achievement



4
 Table 2, Annex 2, Ministry of Education, National Strategic Plan for Pre-University Education Reform in
Egypt: Towards an Educational Paradigm Shift, 2007/2008 – 2011/2012, Annexes.



                                                       40
                                       achievement in           preceding.   profiles not
                                       common core                           developed.
                                       courses used in 50                    “Strengthening?
                                       schools to place                      groups not
                                       students in                           established.
                                       “strengthening?
                                       groups by 2006.
Information and multimedia             Computer literacy in     See          Assessment not
technology integrated into             first secondary level    preceding.   carried out.
curriculum, teaching, and learning     assessed through a
by: a) integrating computer literacy   science or social
into the common core courses, b)       studies project in 315
supporting the provision of teacher    project schools by
resource centers in project schools,   2005.
and c) promoting the use of
technology in teaching.
                                       Teacher resource         See          205 converted
                                       centers in 315           preceding.   commercial
                                       project schools                       schools and 593
                                       provided with                         upgraded
                                       hardware and                          general schools
                                       software by 2005.                     equipped with
                                                                             computer labs,
                                                                             science labs,
                                                                             multimedia
                                                                             rooms, and
                                                                             libraries.
                                       At least five teachers   See          Teachers from
                                       in each of the 315       preceding.   205 converted
                                       project schools use                   commercial
                                       information                           schools and 593
                                       technology in                         upgraded
                                       teaching by 2005.                     general schools
                                                                             were trained in
                                                                             use of
                                                                             information
                                                                             technology in
                                                                             teaching, but no
                                                                             assessment
                                                                             carried out on
                                                                             their use of
                                                                             information
                                                                             technology in
                                                                             teaching.
Improved capacities and capabilities   At least five teachers   See          No assessment
of teachers to deliver the secondary   in each of the 315       preceding.   carried out.
teaching and learning reforms.         project schools use
                                       appropriate
                                       methodology to
                                       teach skills
                                       objectives [sic.] in
                                       common core
                                       courses by 2005.
                                       In-service training      See          Overachieved.
                                       for teachers planned     preceding.   (See Annex 7.)
                                       and delivered at the


                                                    41
                                        local level by 2005.
Improved and efficient management       New job descriptions    See          Not
structures and practices established    for positions within    preceding.   accomplished.
at the MOE governorate                  the inspectorate
(muddiriya), district (idara), and      adopted by 2004.
school levels to assure efficient
service delivery and adaptability to
reforms.
                                        Ministerial decree      See          Decree adopted
                                        setting criteria for    preceding.   in 2007.
                                        promotion by merit
                                        published by 2004.
Quality assurance mechanism             National criteria for   See          Not
established linking basic, secondary,   assessing school        preceding.   accomplished.
and tertiary education to implement     effectiveness
a national sector-wide quality          adopted by 2002.
framework for accountability and
management practices.
                                        Instruments for         See          Not
                                        assessing quality of    preceding.   accomplished.
                                        school facilities,
                                        management, and
                                        teaching validated by
                                        2003.
                                        Senior inspectors in    See          Accomplished.
                                        2-3 selected            preceding.   (See Annex 7.)
                                        muddiriya trained by
                                        2003.
                                        Five schools in each    See          Not
                                        muddiriya inspected     preceding.   accomplished.
                                        by trained inspectors
                                        using prepared
                                        instruments by 2005.
School management responsibilities      315 project schools     See          Not
devolved to local levels and relevant   prepare action plans    preceding.   accomplished.
responsibilities devolved to            for school
governorates and districts within       improvement with
defined parameters.                     participation of
                                        parents’ councils.




                                                     42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

This ICR does not attempt to update the cost-benefit analysis that was provided in the
PAD. Because that analysis was based on unsubstantiated assumptions about how
enrollments might respond to school upgrading and how school upgrading might affect
graduate earnings, it would be pointless to do so. See Section 3.1 for a description of the
deficiencies of cost-benefit analysis for the project, and Section 3.3 for a summary of
indirect evidence from the recent research literature on the labor-market outcomes of the
two largest actions under the project: school conversion (from commercial secondary
schools to general secondary schools), and upgrading of general secondary schools.




                                            43
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                            Title            Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Mae Chu Chang              Lead Education Specialist       EASHD TTL
Supervision/ICR
Mohamed Yahia Ahmed
                         Financial Management Specialist   AFTME FM
Said Abd El Karim
Raghada Mohamed Abdel
                         Team Assistant                    MNCEG ACS
Hamed
Suzy Edward Bazerghi     Temporary                         MNCEG
Mona Sabet Zikri         Education Technology Specialist   MNCEG TTL
Ahmed Mohamed
                         Consultant                        MNSHD
Mahmoud Dewidar
Andrew Burke             Consultant                        MNHD
Marwa El-Mossalamany     Temporary                         MNSHD
Akram Abd El-Aziz        Senior Financial Management
                                                           SARFM FM
Hussein El-Shorbagi      Specialist
Emma Paulette Etori      Language Program Assistant        MNSHD   ACS
Brigitte S. Franklin     Program Assistant                 MNSHD   ACS
Mahmoud Gamal El Din     Senior Operations Officer         MNSHE   Procurement
Sahar Mohamed Hegazy     Program Assistant                 MNC03   ACS
Arun R. Joshi            Senior Education Specialist       AFTEE   TTL
Maiada Mahmoud Abdel
                         Finance Officer                   CTRLA FM
Fatt Kassem
Sebastian Martinez       Senior Economist                  HDNCE
                         Senior Financial Management
Josephine Masanque                                         OPSOR FM
                         Specialist
James L. McCloud         Consultant                        MNSHD
Mona Ezzat Abdel Hamid
                         Temporary                         MNC03
Mostafa
David Michael Sprague    Consultant                        MNSHD
Hisham Ahmed Waly        Manager, Financial Management     MNAOS   FM
Christina D. Wright      Operations Officer                MNSHE
Celine Gavacj            Senior Operations Officer         AFTDE
 Sara Youssif            Temporary                         MNC03
Ernesto P. Cuadra        Lead Education Specialist         MNSHE   TTL
Michel J. Welmond        Lead Education Specialist         CMEIC   TTL
Michael Mertaugh         Consultant                        MNSHE   ICR author




                                           44
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                           USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                       44.33
  FY99                                                      282.19
  FY00                             7                          4.85
  FY01                             4                          4.90
  FY02                                                        4.46
  FY03                                                        0.08
  FY04                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                        0.00
  FY08                                                        0.00
 Total:                            11                       340.81
 Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                        0.00
  FY99                                                       22.41
  FY00                             14                        52.27
  FY01                             22                        77.38
  FY02                             18                        57.82
  FY03                             16                        29.50
  FY04                             18                        53.51
  FY05                             34                       109.87
  FY06                             31                        96.10
  FY07                             32                        87.26
  FY08                             34                       104.30
  FY09                                                      100.56
  FY10                                                       80.99
  FY11                                                      139.28
  FY12                                                      119.43
  FY13                                                       70.08
 Total                          219                        1200.76




                              45
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Project-supported training sessions usually concluded with an inquiry into participants’
satisfaction with the training that they received. As reported in the Borrower’s ICR
(Annex 7), training sessions reported a high level of participant satisfaction with training.
Apart from this, the only other beneficiary feedback obtained under the project was
through the May, 2012 Stakeholder’s Workshop, described in Annex 6.




                                             46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)


Introduction

A Stakeholders’ Workshop was held in Cairo on May 8, 2012 to assess stakeholders’
views of and reactions to project-supported training. A total of 81 individuals
participated in the workshop. The purpose of the Workshop was to collect feedback from
stakeholders and project beneficiaries on the achievements of SEEP, relevance of results,
and lessons learned.

Methodology

The Workshop was conducted to respond to two major evaluation questions:
      Evaluation Question 1: What is the evaluation of the stakeholders and
       beneficiaries of SEEP of the project’s results? How satisfactory is the project
       according to their perceptions?
      Evaluation Question 2: What suggestions and recommendations do they have for
       improving the secondary education sector in Egypt?

Three procedures were used to collect data to respond to the evaluation questions:

1. Survey on Stakeholders and Beneficiaries’ Evaluation of Project Results. A
survey was designed by the consultant and conducted at the beginning of the
Workshop in order to avoid any biases that would have possibly occurred because
of presentations on project results. The survey questionnaire, “Stakeholders and
Beneficiaries’ Assessment of SEEP Results?, was designed in English and then translated
into Arabic to enhance the validity of the procedure since Arabic is the first language of
all of the participants. Back translation was also conducted to ensure equivalence in both
languages. The survey was completed by 72 respondents, consisting of teachers, school
principals, school inspectors, MOE central and governorate-level officials, and staff of
the national curriculum development center (CCIMD) and national examinations center
(NCEEE).

2. Presentations on project goals and achievements by the Project Manager and
representatives of the key implementation partners, and discussion by Workshop
participants.

3. Focused Discussions. After each presentation delivered by MOE and project
partners, a focused discussion was conducted to validate the achievements
presented.




                                           47
Findings

Detailed findings are available in the full report of the Stakeholders’ Workshop (attached).

Overall findings are summarized as follows: 71% of SEEP stakeholders and
beneficiaries were satisfied with the results achieved by SEEP. Participants reported that
the most significant accomplishments of the project were:
       the professional development programs               provided     to   teachers,    school
        administrators and non-teaching staff,
       school maintenance and upgrading, and
       the new secondary school curriculum framework.

The most revealing findings of the workshop were participants’ reports of what they
viewed as the project’s most significant achievements and expected results that were not
achieved. The most frequent responses to those questions are summarized below:

            SEEP Achievements                               SEEP Disappointments
Development of a new curriculum framework         Non-implementation of new curriculum
                                                  framework
Effective use of technology in schools            Dilution of educational benefits through private
                                                  tutoring and other sources of student absences
Upgrading and establishing science and IT labs    Uninspired training delivery
Converting commercial schools into general        Insufficient attention to improving teaching
secondary schools                                 methodologies
Upgrading school libraries                        Insufficient attention to technology for school
                                                  management
Training for school librarians                    Perpetuation of separate schooling streams
                                                  rather than moving toward comprehensive
                                                  secondary schools


The participants rated the project’s overall performance as “Moderately Satisfactory,?
and recommended further professional development programs for all the human
resources involved in secondary education, continuity of support by the World Bank in
completing the process of creation of the new secondary education curricula, and
enhancement of e-learning at the secondary stage.




                                                 48
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s draft ICR listed project accomplishments as summarized below, but did
not provide performance ratings for the project.

Component 1: Improved Educational Quality and Opportunity

A. Converting commercial schools to general schools.

In collaboration with the General Association for Educational Buildings (GAEB), SEEP
achieved the following:

From 2001 to 2005, a total of 205 commercial secondary schools were converted into
general secondary schools. The conversion process included rehabilitation and provision
of science laboratories, equipment, computers for these labs, multimedia centers for
classrooms, libraries and computer laboratories as follows:
      205 schools were rehabilitated with computer labs, science labs, multimedia
       rooms and libraries as a preparation for equipment.
      409 science labs (biology – chemistry – physics) were equipped with furniture,
       appliances, tools, instruments, chemicals.
      297 computer labs were equipped with 15 personal computers and a printer per
       each in addition to furniture.
      205 multimedia rooms were equipped with a personal computer for each, a
       television set 29?, a video cassette recorder, a receiver, a video projector and a
       stabilizer in addition to furniture.
      Equipping each school with 2 sorts of applied activities (industrial – agricultural-
       housekeeping) up to the nature of the school; i.e. gender.
      Equipping each school with 2 fire extinguishers, ceiling fans and curtains as a
       kind of protection for the computer labs, science labs and multimedia rooms.
      Equipping each school with iron doors and windows to protect the computer labs
       and multimedia rooms.
      205 school libraries including furniture, 2 personal computers, a printer, books,
       dictionaries, references and encyclopedias for each.


B. Upgrading Existing General Secondary Schools

From 2006 to 2008, a total of 584 existing general secondary schools out of 593 targeted
schools were selected by GAEB for upgrading in collaboration with the Central
Directorate for Secondary Education. GAEB established criteria and standards for the
selection of schools such as available spaces for equipping computer labs, science labs or
multimedia rooms, number of classes, teachers, administrators, etc. On this basis:



                                           49
      307 schools were equipped with a computer lab including 19 personal computers,
       3 printers, 24 benches, 48 seats in addition to 5 personal computers for school
       administration.
      277 schools were equipped with 5 personal computers for school administration
       and 3 printers in addition to 5 benches and 5 chairs. Quantities of equipment were
       reduced for these schools due to either an already adequate supply of equipment
       or unavailability of space for additional equipment.
      184 schools were equipped with a multimedia room that includes a personal
       computer, a video projector, a trolley and a seat.
      584 school libraries were equipped with furniture.
      390 school libraries were provided with books, dictionaries, reference books and
       encyclopedias.

From 2008 to 2010, a total of 85 schools were rehabilitated according to the needs of
each school, and 100 schools were equipped with classroom furniture including 20
student benches, 40 student chairs, 1 teacher bench, 1 teacher chair, one white board and
one blackboard.

In 2012, 907 secondary schools were equipped with physical education equipment
including 4 footballs, 4 basketballs, 4 handballs, 4 volleyballs, and table tennis and a
handball net.

C. Training

Staff of the 205 Converted Schools. Training programs were delivered to the teaching
staff at the 205 converted schools so as to achieve the objectives of component 1.
Training for these schools was as follows:

               - 2,918 teachers of commercial subjects were trained on         2001 – 2002
                   the use of computers
               -   79,680 teachers were trained on the use of computers        2002 – 2004
                   (computer literacy)
               -   2,801 science teachers were trained on the use of the new   2002 – 2006
                   science labs
               -   442 teachers of instructional computer were trained on      2005
                   the use of the new computer labs
               -   480 school librarians were trained on the E-library         2007
                    86,321                                                     Total


Training took place both centrally and regionally, depending on the nature of the training
program and the availability of the training sites.




                                               50
D. Addressing the Poor Quality and Relevance of Education Courses and
Assessment Methods.

New Curriculum Framework. With the assistance of local and international
consultants, a new curriculum framework for secondary education was developed. To
help with this process, a new framework for all education stages was designed and
revised with a special reference to the general secondary stage. Core subject documents
were also prepared under the supervision of the Center for Curriculum and Instructional
Materials Development (CCIMD) and subject counselors in addition to experts as well as
specialists at universities and other stakeholders. Technical assistance was provided to
staff of the CCIMD in text books manuscript writing and school textbook design. The
MOE has authorized the launching of preparation of new textbooks based on the new
curriculum under a competitive process.

Experts and consultants were hired to design instructional materials for in-service
training and training programs were delivered to help teachers improve their teaching
skills. While awaiting the new curriculum framework, training focused on enhancing
teachers’ teaching skills and competencies that were aligned with internationally accepted
good practices, including active learning, cooperative learning, constructive learning, and
comprehensive evaluation, as well as the use of technology in teaching. This was
achieved in collaboration with various educational institutions including faculties of
education, the Professional Academy for Teachers, the Central Directorate for In-service
Training, the General Directorate for Instructional Computer, and the National Center for
Educational Evaluation and Examinations (NCEEE). Training activities were delivered
to different clusters of teachers whether at the 205 converted schools or the 593 upgraded
schools as shown below:

               - 640 teachers were trained on the use of technology in      2000 – 2003
                  teaching
               - 180 teachers of economics were trained on education        2006
                 economics
               - 7646 core subjects teachers were trained on the use of     2008 2009
                 technology in teaching methodology (1st phase)
               - 6429 core subjects teachers were trained on the recent     2009 - 2010
                 trends in teaching methodology (2nd phase)
               - Additional 33474 teachers subjects teachers were trained   2011 - 2012
                 on the recent trends in teaching methodology
                 48,369                                                     Total


Student Assessment. Egypt’s participation in the TIMSS-2007 international student
assessment survey was supported by the project, including fees for NCEE staff
attendance at meetings and conferences for the survey. The project also supported
technical assistance and training for NCEE staff by foreign consultants specialized in
item banking and psychometrics.




                                             51
                 Component 2: Strengthening Institutional Capacity

Training for School Boards. The Project provided training for School Boards in all
governorates. A total of 1,079 School Board members were trained in their new roles
and responsibilities. In 2006, due to community feedback, the ministerial decree
concerning both the structure of the School boards and their roles and responsibilities was
amended. Training materials were modified to reflect that amendment, and the project
planned to offer additional training to School Boards on that basis. But the SEEP
Steering Committee declined to proceed with this training, arguing that there were other
donor agencies working on this topic. Consequently, the money allocated for this activity
was reallocated to support school upgrading.

School Grants.       The SEEP implementation team found it hard to work on this
subcomponent due to the absence of both a realistic vision and a practical mechanism to
apply decentralization. During the supervision mission of March 5-19 2005, it was agreed
by both the World Bank staff and SEEP implementation team to reallocate the money for
this category to school upgrading.

Developing New Quality Assurance Mechanisms and Improving Management
Practice.
A number of consultations with stakeholders – including education experts, senior
officials from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Local
Development – were held to revise and improve management and personnel practices and
introduce performance incentives for teachers and school managers. That process resulted
in the issuance and application in 2007 of a new Law, No. 155, for teaching staff. In
addition to seniority, the new law adds a performance criterion as a basis for teacher
promotion. Moreover, competitions for selecting the best secondary school principals
were held by MOE. These competitions were based on specific standards such as the
ability to manage secondary schools using modern principles such as authority delegation,
crisis management, time management, school self-evaluation, English language
proficiency, and proficiency in use of computers in school management.

The project provided computers for the school administration to help with school
management. Training programs were delivered to school managers and deputies as
shown below:




                                            52
               - 32 secondary school managers were trained on the use of    2003
                 computers
               - 120 secondary school managers were trained on school       2006
                 management
               - 200 secondary school managers were trained on the use      2008
                 of computers
               - 2,287 secondary school managers and deputies were          2009
                 trained on recent trends in secondary school management
               - An additional 67,278 secondary school managers and         2011 - 2012
                 deputies were trained in recent trends in secondary
                 school management
                 69,917                                                     Total

Training was also delivered to school supervisors and inspectors to meet project
objectives:

              - 306 supervisors of instructional computer were trained in   2006
                 the use of the new computer labs
              - 4,831 core subjects and activities supervisors were         2009
                trained in the use of technology in teaching (1st phase)
              - 4,260 core subjects and activities supervisors were         2009
                trained in the new trends of supervision (2nd phase)
                9,397                                                       Total

The evaluations of this training found that supervisors were pleased to be able to use
computers at last and be able to cope with both teachers and students. Activities
supervisors were extremely pleased with that kind of training as it was the first time it
was provided. Both core subjects and activities supervisors asked for more specialized
training programs so that they don’t feel isolated in their work.

Building capacity. The project contributed to the improvement of administration and
school leadership through the following training actions:

              - 184 Members of school-based training and evaluation         2005
                units were trained on training management and national
                standards.                                                  2008
              - 1,354 MOE quality and monitoring reviewers were
                trained on quality assurance and accreditation              2008 - 2009
              - 1,921 mudiriya and idara undersecretaries, managers
                and deputies were trained on modern educational
                leadership
                3,275                                                       Total

Those trainees became the main pillars for establishing a quality assurance department at
each idara nationwide to work on examining the capacities of schools and encourage
them to become accredited through the techniques described in NAQAAE’s handbooks.




                                             53
In 2006 and 2007 an E-school training program was delivered for 509 school
administrators (2 school administrators per school at the 205 converted schools). Most
of the converted schools, where the software of this program was installed, are managing
students’ affairs and staff affairs using this program.

Technical support was given through funding research in several project areas, including:
      Core subjects at the 10th grade
      Strategies for teaching and educational supervision
      Secondary education in Egypt from 1990–2004
      Utilizing technology in teaching
      Enhancing the role of school based training and valuation units
      Enhancing the role of Boards of Trustees

The project contributed to workshops conducted for the purpose of developing the
National Strategic Plan 2007 -2012, with particular attention to secondary education
strategy.

The project provided support to a number of educational institutions to help strengthen
their capacity:
      145 out of 286 educational idaras nationwide were provided with a computer lab.
       Each lab contains 19 personal computers, a printer, a network, 19 benches and 37
       seats.
      8 computer labs were equipped at 7 training sites: 2 at CDIST and 1 at Cairo, Port
       Said, Kafr El Sheikh, Assuit and Aswan.
      A computer lab and a video projector for the National Center for Educational
       Researches and Development (NCERD)
      Policy and Strategic Planning Unit at the Ministry was provided with personal
       computers and printers.
      CCIMD was provided with personal computers and printers to help with school
       textbook design.
      A computer lab for the General Directorate for Examinations
      A computer lab for the Inspection Department




                                           54
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                    55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Ahmed Dewidar, “Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP), Report on
Stakeholders’ Consultation and Evaluation Workshop,? consultant report, May, 2012.




                                         56
                        
    Secondary Education Enhancement Project 
                    (SEEP) 
                         
                             
                             
                        Report on  
                             
                             
       Stakeholders Consultation and 
           Evaluation Workshop 
                      
                         May, 2012 
                                




 
                             
                             
                        Consultant 
                                
                 Dr. Ahmed Dewidar 
                                
                         President 
                         Validity,  
             Research & Evaluation for Development 
                    adewidar@gmail.com  

                              57
     
     
     
1. INTRODUCTION & PURPOSE 
 

During  SEEP  supervision  mission  from  22  to  27  April  2012,  a  stakeholders  consultation 
and evaluation workshop was planned as part of the end of project assessment of results 
that  feeds  the  Implementation  Completion  Report  (ICR).   The  workshop  was  conducted 
on 8 May 2012 and the purpose of this report is to provide a description of the workshop 
procedures  and  present  findings  of  the  evaluation  of  stakeholders  of  SEEP’s  results  and 
its developmental contributions to the education sector in Egypt. 

 
2.  WORKSHOP OBJECTIVES AND PROCESS 
 

The  purpose  of  the  workshop  was  to  collect  feedback  from  stakeholders  and  project 
beneficiaries  on  the  achievements  of  SEEP,  relevance  of  results  and  lessons  learned.  The 
target participants of the workshop were: 
    1. MoE Undersecretary for Secondary Education 
    2. PAT  director  and  his  staff  who  designed,  supervised  and  managed  training 
        provided by SEEP 
    3. Sample  of  teachers  who  benefited  from  SEEP  training  with  diversity 
        representing  different  subjects,  governorates,  rural  versus  urban  areas  and 
        gender  (Converted  Schools  should  be  represented  with  at  least  40%  of  the 
        sample of teachers) 
    4. Sample  of  school  directors  who  benefited  from  SEEP  capacity  building 
        (Representing  converted  schools,  upgraded  schools  and  non  beneficiary 
        schools from different governorates, gender and rural versus urban areas) 
    5. Sample  of  secondary  education  supervisors  who  have  benefited  from  SEEP 
        with  diversity  of  representation.   Sample  should  include  also  supervisors 
        who  monitor  teaching/learning  in  schools  benefited  from  SEEP  (converted, 
        upgraded and non?upgraded but their teachers were trained by SEEP). 
    6. Sample of other educational staff such as IT technicians, librarians and social 
        advisors,  etc.   who  benefited  from  SEEP  interventions  with  diversity  of 
        representation 
    7. A sample of undersecretaries from 3?4 governorates for overall assessment of 
        teachers,  supervisors,  school  managers,  GAEB,  etc.  as  a  result  of  SEEP 
        interventions. 
    8. GAEB staff who worked on SEEP interventions 
    9. CCIMD staff who have worked on the new curriculum design  
    10. CCIMD  former  director,  who  worked  with  SEEP  for  a  long  term  on  earlier 
        versions of curriculum design 
    11. NCEEE who worked with SEEP and benefited from its interventions  
    12. Sample of trainers, who conducted SEEP training 
    13. Evaluators  who  are  contracted  to  conduct  level  3,  implementation,  of 


                                                58
        training 
    14.  Current and Former Staff of SEEP 
    15.  Current and former WB staff worked on SEEP 
    16.  A representative from MIC 

The  project  director,  Dr.  Mohamed  Abu  Rezka,  and  his  team  worked  so  hard  on 
planning  for  the  workshop  and  on  inviting  the  target  audience.   More  than  a  hundred 
candidate  were  invited,  out  of  which,  81  attended  the  workshop.    This  is  considered  a 
very  high  response  rate  as  the  time  of  the  workshop  coincides  with  the  end  of  the 
academic year examinations.  Following is a summary of the workshop events. 
1.  Opening by Project Manager 
2.  Survey on the project results 
3.  Presentation by Project Manager on project achievements & open discussion   
4.  Presentation by GAEB & open discussion 
5.  Presentation by PAT & open discussion 
6.  Presentation by CCIMD & open discussion 
7.  Wrap up and closure 
 
3.  METHODOLOGY 
 

The workshop was conducted to respond to two major evaluation questions: 
 
Evaluation Question 1.    What  is  the  evaluation  of  the  stakeholders  and  beneficiaries  of 
                          SEEP  of  the  projects  results?    How  satisfactory  is  the  project 
                          according to their perceptions? 
Evaluation Question 2.    What  suggestions  and  recommendations  do  they  have  for  the 
                          secondary education sector in Egypt? 
 

A number of procedures were used to collect data to respond to the evaluation questions.  
They were as follows. 
   1.  Survey  on  Stakeholders  and  Beneficiaries’  Evaluation  of  Project  results.    A 
       survey  was  designed  by  the  consultant  and  conducted  at  the  beginning  of  the 
       workshop  in  order  to  avoid  any  biases  that  would  have  possibly  occurred 
       because of presentations on project results.  
   2.  Focused  Discussions.    After  each  presentation  delivered  by  MoE  and  project 
       partners,  a  focused  discussion  was  conducted  to  validate  the  achievements 
       presented. 
     

The findings with details relevant to evaluation questions are presented below. 
 
                                  




                                                59
4.  FINDINGS 

 

Following are the findings of the quantitative and qualitative analyses of the 
survey and then a summary of the participants’ comments, suggestions and 
recommendations for future development of secondary education in Egypt. 
 
4.1 Stakeholders and Beneficiaries’ Assessment of SEEP Results 
 

The  survey  was  designed  in  English  and  then  translated  into  Arabic  to  enhance  the 
validity of the procedure since Arabic is the first language of all of the participants (Back 
translation  was  also  conducted  to  ensure  equal  forms  in  both  languages).    The  survey 
was completed by 72 respondents whose affiliations are described in table 1.   
 
             Table 1.  Respondents to Survey on Assessment of SEEP Results 
                                         by Affiliation 
       Affiliation                                             Number of Participants 
       CCIMD                                                               9 
       FOA                                                                  7 
       GAEB                                                                3 
       IT for Education                                                    4 
       MIC                                                                 2 
       NCEEE                                                               1 
       NCERD                                                               4 
       NTS                                                                  3 
       PAT (Head & Director of Training)                                   2 
       School Management                                                   7 
       Senior Administrator (MoE & Governorates)                           9 
       Supervisors                                                         9 
       Teachers                                                            12 
       Grand Total                                                         72 
 
The survey consisted of 5 questions: 
1.    The  participants  were  required  to  rate  16  statements  on  a  4  point  scale  (4=strongly 
agree,  3=agree,  2=disagree  and  1=strongly  disagree)  and  indicate  that  they  do  not  have 
enough  info  to  respond  to  a  particular  statement  by  selecting  NOT  Applicable  (NA).  
The statements were designed according to the objectives of SEEP.   
2.   Participants  were  required  to  rate  the  project  on  a  6  point  scale  ranging  from  Highly 
Satisfactory = 6 to Highly Unsatisfactory = 1, which is the same scale used in the ICR. 
3.  The participants were asked to list the most significant results of SEEP. 
4.  The participants were asked to list what did not work for SEEP and why they think so. 
5.    Participants  were  asked  to  provide  their  comments,  suggestions  and 
recommendations for SEEP and the development of secondary education in Egypt.  



                                                  60
The English version of the survey can be found in Annex 1, page 10. 
 
4.1.1 Achievement of SEEP Objectives 
 

Table  2  shows  the  participants’  mean  scores  on  each  of  the  statements  and  the  overall 
assessment of SEEP results.  One reverse item was used to check for the reliability of the 
responses  provided  by  each  individual  (item  13  was  the  reverse  of  item  5).    The  table 
shows mean scores for “all cases? (n=72) and “most reliable? subgroup (n=49).   
 

          Table 2. Mean Scores of Participants’ Assessment of SEEP Achievements 
Most Reliable   All Cases                                                                       No
                                                       Statement
  %   Mean   %   Mean                                                                            .

  77%      3.07     79%       3.16   The objectives of SEEP were clear to me.                    1

                                     I believe the conversion of commercial schools 
  62%      2.47     66%       2.65   into general schools by SEEP was a positive step            2
                                     for secondary education reform in Egypt.
                                     The commercial schools converted into general 
  59%      2.34     65%       2.61   schools have been providing good quality                    3
                                     general secondary education.
                                     SEEP has contributed significantly to the new 
  74%      2.97     74%       2.96   curriculum framework for secondary education                4
                                     in Egypt.
                                     The professional development programs 
                                     provided by SEEP were relevant to the 
  72%      2.87     74%       2.96                                                               5
                                     development needs of secondary education in 
                                     Egypt.
                                     SEEP has contributed significantly to the 
  71%      2.83     70%       2.81   development of more valid and reliable                      6
                                     assessments in secondary education in Egypt.
                                     SEEP has contributed significantly to effective 
  78%      3.11     81%       3.25                                                               7
                                     use of ICT in secondary education.
                                     The professional development programs SEEP 
  74%      2.97     75%       2.98                                                               8
                                     provided were with high quality. 
                                     The performance of teachers who received SEEP 
  72%      2.90     74%       2.94   professional development programs improved                  9
                                     because of such programs.
                                     SEEP contributed to effective school 
                                     management through the professional 
  71%      2.84     74%       2.96                                                               10
                                     development programs provided to school 
                                     administration.




                                                61
Most Reliable           All Cases                                                                         No
                                                                 Statement
  %   Mean             %   Mean                                                                            .
                                         The performance of supervisors who received 
  69%       2.74      58%       2.34     SEEP professional development programs                           11
                                         improved because of such programs.
                                         SEEP contributed significantly to upgrading 
  79%       3.14      80%       3.18                                                                      12
                                         secondary schools in Egypt
                                         *The professional development programs 
  68%       2.74      61%       2.44     provided by SEEP were relevant to the                             13
                                         participants’ needs
                                         SEEP has significantly supported secondary 
  77%       3.08      78%       3.12     schools to meet the requirements for                              14
                                         accreditation
                                         SEEP provided successful professional 
                                         development programs to non teaching staff in 
  66%       2.64      69%       2.75                                                                       15
                                         secondary education schools in Egypt 
                                         (Librarians, Social Specialists, ICT, etc.)
                                         Overall, I am satisfied with the results SEEP has 
  72%       2.86      75%       2.98                                                                       16
                                         achieved.

  71%      2.85       72%       2.88                                   Overall
*Reverse item of #5. It was corrected to average it with the rest of the items for overall mean.
 
Figure  2  shows  a  comparison  of  all  participants’  mean  scores  (n=72)  and  the  most 
reliable subgroup (n=49).  It can be seen that there are no significant differences between 
both.    In  75%  of  the  items  (n=12),  the  mean  scores  of  the  most  reliable  subgroup  were 
less  than  the  whole  group  and  in  25%  (4  items),  they  were  equal  or  higher.   This  shows 
that  there  is  a  relatively  high  overall  level  of  reliability  of  the  ratings  of  the  participants 
even when the responses of some of the participants were less in reliability (n=23). 
 


                                     




                                                     62
    Figure 2.  Comparison between “All Cases? and “Most Reliable? Subgroup Mean 
                                        Scores  




                     i1   i2    i3   i4   i5   i6     i7   i8   i9   i10 i11 i12 i13 i14 i15 i16
       All Data     79% 66% 65% 74% 74% 70% 81% 75% 74% 74% 58% 80% 61% 78% 69% 75%
       Reliable Data 77% 62% 59% 74% 72% 71% 78% 74% 72% 71% 69% 79% 68% 77% 66% 72%


 
The above findings were interpreted according to the following scale. 
         

          3.60?4.00 = Highly Satisfied (90%?100%) 
          2.60?3.50 = Satisfied (65%?89%) 
          1.60?2.50 = Dissatisfied (40%?64%) 
          1.00?1.50 = Strongly Dissatisfied (25%?49%) 
It  is  noteworthy  that  the  mean  scores  of  the  “Most  Reliable?  subgroup  are  used  for  the 
following interpretations. 
 No items received “High Satisfaction? from the participants. 
 They participants were “satisfied? with SEEP results in terms of 
          o SEEP’s significant contribution to upgrading secondary schools in Egypt
          o SEEP’s significant contribution to effective use of ICT in secondary education.
          o Clarity of project objectives 
          o SEEP’s significant support to secondary schools to meet the requirements for 
              accreditation 
          o SEEP significant contribution to the new curriculum for secondary education 
              in Egypt
          o The quality of the professional development programs provided by the 
              project 
          o The relevance of the professional development programs provided by project 
              to the development needs of secondary education in Egypt 
          o The improvement in teachers’ performance because of the professional 
              development programs provided by the project



                                                 63
        o  SEEP’s significant contribution to the development of more valid and reliable 
           assessments at secondary education in Egypt
       o SEEP’s significant contribution to effective school management through the 
           professional development programs provided to school administration
       o The improvement of supervisors’ performance because of the professional 
           development programs provided by the project.
       o SEEP’s effective professional development programs provided to non 
           teaching staff (Librarians, Social Specialists, ICT, etc.)  
   The participants were dissatisfied with 
       o the conversion of commercial schools into general schools  
       o the quality of  general secondary education provided by the converted 
           schools 
   No items received strong dissatisfaction from the participants. 

 
The  overall  satisfaction  level  of  the  participants  was  2.85/4.00,  71%,  which  was 
“Satisfied?.    To  demonstrate  the  reliability  of  the  findings,  item  16  which  describes  the 
overall  satisfaction  of  the  participants  received  a  mean  score  of  2.86/4.00,  72%,  which  is 
almost identical to the average of all items (2.85, 71%). 

 
4.1.2 Participants’ Rating of SEEP Overall Performance 
Table 3 shows the frequency of ratings of project overall performance by the participants on the 6
point scale that matches the World Bank scale.

                  Table 3. Participants’ Ratings of SEEP Overall Performance
       Rating                    Descriptor              Frequency       Overall Score 
         1            Highly Unsatisfactory                  0 
         2            Unsatisfactory                         4 
                                                                            4.42/6.00 
         3            Moderately Unsatisfactory              3 
                                                                                 
         4            Moderately Satisfactory                22 
                                                                              74% 
         5            Satisfactory                           24 
                                                                                 
         6            Highly Satisfactory                    6 
                                                                          Moderately 
        NA            Not Enough Info to Evaluate            11 
                                                                          Satisfactory 
       Blank                          ?                      2 
                      Grand Total                            72 

59  of  the  participants  rated  the  project  overall  performance,  while  11  indicated  that  they 
do  not  have  enough  information  to  assess  the  project  and  2  left  this  section  blank.   The 
mean  score  rating  the  project  performance  was  4.42  (74%),  which  is  “Moderately 
Satisfactory?.    It  is  noteworthy  that  the  rating  almost  matches  the  satisfaction  level  of 
the participants (71%). 
 
                                     


                                                  64
4.1.3 Most Significant Achievements of SEEP 
Table 4 shows the most significant results achieved by SEEP according to the 
participants and the frequency of each as listed by them. 
  
          Table 4.  Most Significant Results Achieved by SEEP by Frequency 
No.                                                       Significant Results Frequency
  1.     Professional Development programs for Teachers, Supervisors and           31
                                                   School administration, etc.
  2.                                 Upgrading and Maintenance of Schools          23

       Table 4.  Most Significant Results Achieved by SEEP by Frequency (Cont.) 
No.                                                         Significant Results Frequency
  3.                                           The new Curricula Framework           14
  4.                                    Effective use of technology in schools       11
  5.                          Upgrading and establishing science and IT labs         10
  6.          Converting commercial schools into general secondary schools           6
  7.                                                 Upgrading school libraries      2
  8.                                 Professional development for librarians         2
  9.                                                Establishing activity rooms      1
 
According  to  the  participants,  the  most  significant  results  achieved  by  SEEP  were  the 
professional  development  programs  provided  by  the  project,  the  upgrading  and 
maintenance of schools and the new curricula framework.  
 
4.1.4 Expected Results that were Not Achieved  
Table  5  shows  the  expected  results  by  the  participants  that  were  not  achieved  by  SEEP 
and their frequencies.  It is noteworthy that the implementation of the new curricula was 
not an objective of SEEP nor was the project aiming at establishing new schools.   
 
Table 5.  Participants’ Expected Results that were not Achieved by SEEP by Frequency 
No.  Expected Results that were NOT achieved                                                Frequency 
 1. Implementation of New Curricula                                                              3 
 2. No real change took place at the student and teacher levels because of the                   3 
     deficiencies in the secondary stage itself through private tutoring and 
     absence of students 
 3. Professional development programs were conducted in a traditional                            2 
     format and did not reach many.  More effective programs were expected. 
 4. New and modern methodologies for teachers were needed.                                       2 
 5. More use of technology in school management was needed                                       2 
 6. The project should have established “Comprehensive Schools? that                             1 
      include general, technical and vocational education 
 7. Completion of infrastructure in all secondary schools                                        1 



                                               65
8.   The project should have been more “visible?                                               1 
9.   More attention should have been given to areas of specialization during                   1 
     training. Not one size fits all! 
10. More attention should have been given to non?curricular activities                         1 
 
4.1.5 Participants’ Comments, Suggestions and Recommendations 
Table  6  shows  the  comments,  suggestions  and  recommendations  made  by  the 
participants  and  their  frequencies.    While  SEEP  has  contributed  significantly  to  the 
professional  development  of  teaching  and  nonteaching  staff,  the  need  for  more  is  still 
very  strong  as  indicated  by  the  participants’  most  frequent  recommendation  (almost 
40%  of  all  comments  made).    The  second  most  frequent  recommendation  was  to 
continue  to  support  and  supervise  the  process  of  the  development  of  the  new  curricula 
followed by enhancing e?learning opportunities at the secondary stage. 
                                 




                                               66
             Table 6.  Participants’ Comments, Suggestions and Recommendations  
No.                                  Comments, Suggestions and Recommendations Frequency
1.        Professional development programs are still  needed for all involved               16 
          in the education process (Teaching, Admin & Non Teaching Staff) 
2.         The project should continue supervising the process of development                3 
                                                         of the new curricula until the end
3.                     More e?learning should be developed at the secondary stage            3 
4.             School maintenance should happen according to plans for school                1 
                                      development not according to contractors’ views
5.                   Application of “quality? measures through good governance               1 
6.                     New methodologies in Assessment should be implemented                 1 
7.                    Use of technology in school management:  “ e?management?               2 
8.           More responsiveness in requests of support from the project (Speed              1 
                                                                                 & Quality)
9.              Transfer at least 30% of the students’ assessments into electronic           1 
                                                                               assessments
10.                                               A reform project for technical education   1 
11.                               Linking secondary education to labor market needs          1 
12.                Secondary students’ participation in community development                1 
13.                      The new curricula should promote talents and innovations            1 
14.                More focus should be given to the graduates of the faculties of           1 
                                     education to prepare them well for the classroom
15.                                      Projects need to be monitored more effectively      1 
16.                        The project should have been evaluated by a neutral body          1 
17.                                         Follow up on the implementation of training      1 
18.              There should be one entity responsible for managing education               1 
             projects with staff competent to successfully implement the project 
19.                                             More support to non?curricular activities    1 
20.                                       Attention should be given to education media       1 
21.                 Attention should also be given to primary, prep and technical            1 
                                                                                     schools
 
4.2 Focused Discussions of Project Partners’ Presentations on Project Achievements 
As  described  earlier,  4  presentations  were  delivered  during  the  workshop  (Project 
Management,  GAEB,  PAT  and  CCIMD)  followed  by  discussions  on  the  content 
presented  in  each.    Following  is  a  summary  of  the  observations  and  main  points  of 
discussion. 
     A  database  of  all  secondary  schools  should  be  created.    Short  and  long  term 
       development plans should be  designed according to priorities. 
     A  chronic  problem  with  non?curricular  activities  is  that  equipment  is  stored  and 
       never  used  to  protect  it  from  damage.    The  end  result  is  that  no  activities  are 




                                                 67
        conducted  and  the  equipment  becomes  obsolete  not  to  mention  the  waste  of 
        resources buying the equipment in the first place. 
      More  than  half  of  the  Egyptian  population  lives  in  rural  areas;  however,  the 
        secondary  education  schools  in  rural  areas  are  very  much  less  in  quality  than 
        urban areas in all aspects: the building, the teachers and the learning resources. 
      There  is  a  need  for  real  cooperation  between  the  professors  at  the  faculties  of 
        education and the education directorates. 
      While  there  is  considerable  focus  on  science  labs,  most  of  the  students  avoid  the 
        scientific  section  and  join  the  literary  one.    In  some  schools,  the  number  of 
        scientific section students does not exceed 10% of the total number, while the rest 
        are  in  the  literary  section  (90%).    This  is  a  serious  problem  that  needs  to 
        researched and solved. 
      Most of the schools lack the “safety? requirements needed for accreditation. 
      Cancellation  of  buying  music  equipment  because  of  its  being  expensive  is  not  a 
        good excuse. 
      PAT  has  15  branches  in  governorates  and  is  looking  forward  to  opening  new 
        ones to cover all 26 governorates to better serve teachers. 
      The  process  for  designing  and  implementing  training  should  to  be  revisited 
        according to well?defined standards. 
      The  curricula  issue  is  a  highly  significant  and  sensitive  issue  in  Egyptian 
        education.    Once  the  presentation  on  the  new  curricula  framework  was 
        completed,  the  participants  gave  so  many  comments  being  unfamiliar  with  a 
        “curricula  framework?  since  this  is  the  first  time  Egypt  has  one.    Upon 
        clarification  of  the  definition  of  a  curricula  framework,  and  explanation  that  it 
        will  be  shared  with  all  stakeholders  in  the  Egyptian  society  for  discussion  and 
        refinement,  the  participants  showed  appreciation  of  what  has  been  achieved  up 
        to that point. 
                                                      
5.  CONCLUSIONS 
The  following  conclusions  can  be  made  in  light  of  the  data  collected  in  response  to  the 
evaluation questions. 
SEEP  stakeholders  and  beneficiaries  were  satisfied  with  the  results  achieved  by  SEEP 
(2.85/4.00, 71%).  The most significant results of the project were 
      The  professional  development  programs  provided  to  teachers,  school 
        administration and non teaching staff 
      The school maintenance and upgrading  
      The new secondary school curricula framework 
The  participants  rated  the  project  overall  performance  as  “Moderately  Satisfactory? 
with a score of 4.42 out of 6.00 (74%). 
The  participants  recommended  more  professional  development  programs  for  all  the 
human  resources  involved  in  the  secondary  education,  continuity  of  support  by  the 
World  Bank  in  completing  the  process  of  creation  of  the  new  secondary  education 
curricula and enhancement of e?learning at the secondary stage. 



                                                 68
 
Overall,  the  stakeholders’  consultation  and  evaluation  workshop  was  very  successful 
and provided insights on the achievements of SEEP. 
                                                
                                                
                            END OF EVALUATION REPORT 




                                            69
1
  Pre-university education in Egypt consists of six years of primary education, three years of preparatory
education, and three years of secondary education (either technical or general). School attendance is
compulsory only in the primary and preparatory cycles.
2
  Manos Antoninis, “The Vocational School Fallacy Revisited: Technical Secondary Schools in Egypt?,
Working Paper, Robert Schuman Center for Advanced Studies, European University Institute, San
Domenico di Fiesole, Italy, 2001.
3
  “Egypt, Review of Technical and Vocational Education,? DFID and World Bank, December, 2003 Page 5
in Alan Abrahart.
4
  Report of the Employment, Education and Training Foundation (2001), as reported in Abrahart, ibid, page
5.
5
  The figures reported for general secondary and technical secondary enrollments in the first of the tables in
PAD Annex 13 imply that 33.6% of secondary enrollments are in general schools and 66.4% in technical
schools. The enrollment shares reported in the second table of Annex 13 are consistent with these figures:
the “% distribution? row at the bottom of that table reports secondary enrollment shares of 34% general and
66% technical. But there is a problem with the actual enrollment figures in that table. The figure provided
for technical secondary enrollments is 124,000 higher than in the preceding table, implying slightly
different enrollment shares (32.2% general and 67.8% technical). Moreover, the figures for general and
technical secondary enrollments are not at all consistent with the reported figure for “total secondary
students? in that table. General and technical secondary enrollments are reported as 908,493 and 1,917,277,
respectively, while total secondary enrollments are shown as 5,069,454. The latter figure is evidently an
error, and may represent a combined total of preparatory and secondary enrollments. UNESCO’s Institute
for Statistics reports total secondary enrollments in all programs, public and private, as 3,248,278 in 2000,
the earliest year in that series (online database table 3f). The reference year for the enrollment figures
provided in PAD Annex 13 is not identified, but is presumably 1998/1999.
6
  Egypt Labor Market Panel Survey, 1998, as reported in Ragui Assad, “Labor Supply, Employment and
Unemployment in the Egyptian Economy, 1988-2008,? Working Paper No 0701, Economic Research
Forum for the Arab Countries, Iran, and Turkey, September, 2007.
7
  Described in the PAD, Annex 16.
8
  PAD, page 14.
9
  In particular, USAID was supporting an extensive program of assistance for improvements in primary and
preparatory education at the time of SEEP’s preparation.
10
   United States Agency for International Development
11
   The EEP project was originally scheduled to close in December, 2002. After several extensions, it closed
in August, 2006.
12
   PAD, page 26.
13
   PAD page 2.
14
   Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Secondary Education Enhancement Project,
Credit 3194-EG (Board Date: April 15, 1999) to the Arab Republic of Egypt, June 10, 2010.
15
   PAD page 2 and page 26.
16
   Restructuring Paper, page 2.
17
   PAD, pp 8 and 9.
18
   PAD, Page 6 and Annex 2.
19
   Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 2.
20
   SEEP Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B.1.
21
   Aide Mémoire of October/November 2003 supervision mission, page 5.
22
   Aide Mémoire of March/April, 2009 supervision mission, and Ministry of Education, Strategic Plan,
2007/2008-2011/2012, 2007, Annex 2, page 102.
23
   ISR number 14, archived November 8, 2004.
24
   February 22, 2006 letter from Ministry of International Cooperation to Country Director.
25
   Involving approval by the Regional Vice President.
26
   March 26, 2003 letter from Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Bank Country Director.
27
   March 21, 2006 letter from World Bank Country Director to Minister of International Cooperation.



                                                     70
28
   SEEP Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B.1
29
   June 29, 2008 letter from Country Director to Minister of International Cooperation. (This disbursement
schedule is reproduced verbatim from Attachment 2 to that letter. No explanation is provided there for the
discrepancies between the figures in columns 3 and 5, and between the figures in columns 4 and 6.)
30
   December 31, 2008 letter from Country Director to Minister of International Cooperation.
31
   Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Secondary Enhancement Project to the
Arab Republic of Egypt, June 16, 2010, and June 29, 2010 letter from Country Director to Minister of
International Cooperation.
32
   Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Secondary Enhancement Project to the
Arab Republic of Egypt, April 17, 2012, and April 17, 2012 letter from Country Director to Minister of
International Cooperation.
33
   July 3, 2012 letter from Country Director to Minister of Planning and International Cooperation.
34
   November 19, 2012 letter from Country Director to Minister of Planning and International Cooperation.
35
   Middleton, John; Ziderman, Adrian; Van Adams, Arvil. 1993. Skills for Productivity : Vocational
Education and Training in Developing Countries. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/1993/06/437284/skills-productivity-vocational-education-
training-developing-countries.
36
   Aide Mémoire of the November 2007 SEEP supervision mission.
37
   ISR number 10, archived October 25, 2002.
38
   It was an oversight of management review that this statement was retained in the final version of the
PAD because preparation should have been completed and this statement should have been revised in the
Board package to state that a baseline survey had been carried out as a basis for evaluating project
outcomes.
39
   This statement incorporates the revision to correct the error described in Section 1.2.
40
   ISR number 15, archived April 26, 2005.
41
   PAD, page 80.
42
   PAD, page 10.
43
   Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4.
44
   Ahmed Dewidar, Secondary Education Enhancement Project (SEEP) Report on Stakeholders
Consultation and Evaluation Workshop, May 2012. (See Annex 6.)
45
   ISR number 15, archived April 26, 2005.
46
   ISR number 15, archived April 26, 2005.
47
   Page 4, October 2005 SEEP Mission Aide Mémoire and ISR number 16, archived December 1, 2005.
48
   Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank Support to Education Since 2001: A Portfolio Note,
December 28, 2010.
49
   The rationale which is presented in the PAD for supporting a change in the composition of secondary
enrollments starts with several assertions: “Secondary education in Egypt is divided into a two-track
system which provides neither a good general education, nor technical skills relevant to the
marketplace….As Egypt becomes increasingly integrated into the international economy through the free
trade agreement with the European Union and other initiatives, pressure on its labor force to become
internationally competitive is increasing.? “The Government has chosen to increase the number of general
schools with provision for movement between technical and general schools to provide greater educational
opportunities for the majority of students.? “There is limited access to general secondary schools.
Students need to be able to choose from a variety of learning experiences during and after secondary level.
Increasing the share of general schools, as well as the quality of education in all schools, is intended to
address this issue.?
50
   Section B.3 of the PAD on “Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices? would
have been an appropriate place for this discussion, but no such discussion of alternative approaches for
meeting the Reform Program target for technical/general secondary enrollment composition is presented in
this section or elsewhere in the PAD.
51
   page 17 and Annex 4.
52
   PAD, page 11.
53
   PAD, page 17.



                                                    71
54
   It is an established principle of World Bank lending that Bank-financed projects should not replace
actions that would have taken place in the absence of Bank financing.
55
   Egypt participated in the TIMSS 8th grade math test in 2003 and 2007, but not in 2011. It has not
participated in either of the other two prominent international student assessments : the OECD’s PISA, and
PIRLS. Egypt scored in the 22nd percentile in the TIMSS 8th-grade math test in 2003 and in the 23rd
percentile in the 2007 8th-grade science test. Girls scored 17 points higher than boys in both tests, unlike
the pattern among most participating Arab countries.
56
   Other sources report different figures: UNESCO enrollment data for 2010 imply a considerably higher
figure of 49.3% (table 3f, UNESCO Institute for Statistics online database), while a 2011 MOE draft report
prepared for the OECD reports a lower figure of 38.7% (Table 10, MOE, “Pre-University Education
System in Egypt. Background Report, 2011?). Enrollment data as published by Egypt’s official state
statistics agency, the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS), do not distinguish
between general secondary and technical secondary enrollments. Repeated requests by the ICR team to
CAPMAS for a customized tabulation of general secondary and technical secondary enrollments at project
closing went unanswered.
57
   According to the June, 2010 Restructuring Paper, the project was to develop a new instrument to assess
management competencies.
58
   But see the discussion of alternative enrollment coverage estimates in endnote 60.
59
   First bulleted instrument in the PDO, PAD page 2.
60
   PAD Annex 1.
61
   Borrower’s draft ICR.
62
   A widely-used classification of levels of evaluation of training effectiveness distinguishes four levels of
evaluation, as summarized in the text. (See Donald L. and James D. Kirkpatrick, Evaluating Training
Programs, 3rd edition, 2006.)
63
   Section 4.2, Government draft ICR.
64
   Iman Fouad Shafik Shafik, “School Resources and the Quality of Education,? International Institute for
Education Planning, Paris, June, 2006.  
65
   Government’s draft ICR, Section 6. In some of the project-upgraded schools, 90% of students are
enrolled in a humanities specialization, and only 10% in sciences.  
66
   Page 13, Santiago Herrera and Karim Badr, “Why Does the Productivity of Education Vary Across
Individuals in Egypt? Firm Size, Gender, and Access to Technology as Sources of Heterogeneity in
Returns to Education,? World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 5740, July, 2011, Middle East and
North Africa Region, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit. It would be inappropriate to
conclude from Herrera and Badr’s finding that all graduates of general secondary schools in Egypt
experience lower earnings than graduates of technical schools, since most graduates of general secondary
schools go on to higher education, which presumably yields significantly higher returns than either stream
of secondary education. (The conventional rate of return to secondary education tends to understate the
true rate of return because it reflects only the earnings of students whose highest level of educational
attainment is secondary education. It thus excludes the typically higher earnings of secondary graduates
who progress to higher levels of education.)
67
   Independent Evaluation Group, World Bank Support to Education Since 2001: A Portfolio Note,
December 28, 2010.
68
   Quality Assurance Group
69
   Operations Policy and Country Services, “Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines,
August, 2006.
70
   ISR number 14, archived November 8, 2004.
71
   March, 2005. See ISR number 15, archived April 26, 2005.
72
   All subsequent ISRs reported the dated covenant on monitoring and evaluation as “complied with?,
although at best it should have been reported as complied with delays.?
73
   See Government draft ICR, Annex 7.




                                                     72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33400R1


                                                                                               A R A B R E PU B L I C O F E GYP T
                                                                                                         CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 GOVERNORATES IN NILE DELTA:
        ARAB REPUBLIC
            OF EGYPT                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                         1       KAFR EL SHEIKH              8   MENOUFIYA
                                                                                                                                                                         2       DAMIETTA                    9   SHARGIYAH
                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS                                                      3       PORT SAID                  10   QALIUBIYA
                                                                                                                                                                         4       ALEXANDRIA                 11   ISMAILIA
                                                                                                         RAILROADS                                                       5       BEHEIRA                    12   CAIRO
                                                                                                                                                                         6       GHARBIYA                   13   GIZA
                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                          7       DAGAHLIYA

                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                    25°E                                                                      30°E                                                                              35°E

                                                                                                                                             WEST BANK                  To
      To                                                                                                                                     AND GAZA
    Darnah                                            Mediterranean                                 Sea                                                              Tel Aviv

                           Salum
                                                     Marsa Matruh                                                       2 Damietta
                                                                                                          Kafr el
                                                                                                        1 Sheikh                      Port Said El'Arish
                                                                                Alexandria
         Libyan Plateau                                                               Damanhur                   El Mansura 3                                         ISRAEL                     JORDAN
                                                                                                          6 Tanta 7 9
                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                  Zagizig
                                                                                            Shibin el Kom 8                 Ismailia
                                                                                                        Benha                                    NORTHERN
                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                 5              10                                 SINAI
30°N                                                                                                                  CAIRO                                                                                                   30°N
                                                           Qattara                                        Giza
                                                                                                          Giza                           Suez
                                                                                                          13          12       SUEZ
                                                          Depression
                                            Qara                                                                     Helwan                                              Taba

                                                                                               El Fayoum             HELWAN                          SOUTHERN
                     Siwa
                                                                                              EL FAYOUM                                                SINAI
                                  MARSA MATRUH                                                                     Beni Suef




                                                                                                                                                                                 Aqaba
                                                                                                                                         Gu
                                                                                               BENI SUEF                                            Abu Zenima
                                                                                                                                           lf
                                                                            GI ZA                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SAUDI



                                                                                                                                                                         Gulf of
                                                                                                                                              Su
                                                                                                                                 Ras Gharib     ez
                                                                                            AL MINYA                                                       El Tur
                                                                                               Al Minya                                                                                                ARABIA
                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                            a




 LIBYA
                                                                                                                                                s t
                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                  AL BAHR
                                                                                                               ile




                                                                                              ASSIUT                                                          Al Ghurdaqah
                                                                                                                                                    e r



                                                                                                                     Assiut
                                                                                                                                AL AHMAR
                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                       Riv




                                                                                                                                                                Bir Seiyala
                                                                                                                        er




                                          W e s t e r n                                                                       Sohag
                                                                                                                                  SOHAG                                                   Red
                                                                                                                                                           D e
                    L i




                                                                                                                                            Qena                         Quseir
                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                               s e




                                                Desert
                        b y




                                                                                                                                                QENA
                                                                                                                                           Luxor
                                                                                                                                                                   r t




                                                A L WA D I                Mut
                                                                            .               El-Kharga                                      LUXOR
                            a n




25°N                                            AL JADID                                                                                                                                 Marsa 'Alam                          25°N

                                                                                                                                                    ASWAN
                            D e




                                                                                                                                                 Kom Ombo

                                                                                                                             Aswan Dam           Aswan
                                s e r




  To
 Jalu
                                                                                                                                Lake
                                      t




                                                                                                                               Nasser


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Halaib




                                                                                  SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                       0        50       100             150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                       To                                    To                                                                  Port Sudan
                                                                                                     Dongola                               Berber
                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                               0              50                  100        150 Miles
20°N                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                      20°N
                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
             25°E                                                                            30°E                                                                                         35°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEBRUARY 2013
