Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB3825 
Operation Name 
BD Transitional Support Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (20%); General industry and trade 
sector (20%); Central government administration (20%); Banking 
(20%); Law and justice (20%) 
Project ID 
P110167 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 11, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 14, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
June 10, 2008 
1.  Country and sector background 
 
Bangladesh’s development record in recent years has been impressive.  Annual economic growth has 
averaged over 6 percent over the last five years; the poverty rate fell from 49 percent of the population in 
2000 to 40 percent in 2005; and progress toward several other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
has been satisfactory.  This performance is all the more noteworthy when viewed against the many 
development-constraining factors that the country faces.  Growing population in Bangladesh – among the 
most densely populated countries in the world – is crowding out land for agriculture.  In addition, one-
third of the country’s scarce land is normally flooded for three months each year and natural disasters 
(floods and cyclones) are a frequent occurrence.  Yet, despite all this and a meager endowment of natural 
resources, Bangladesh has continued its steady economic and social progress. 
 
Weak governance and ineffective institutions, however, remain a persistent threat to Bangladesh’s 
development.  Successive governments since the early 1990s have focused on economic liberalization, 
deregulation and macroeconomic stability, which generated good growth and enabled decline in the 
poverty rate.  Efforts to strengthen governance and build effective institutions necessary for a mature 
market economy and service delivery have been sporadic in comparison.  A transformation of the 
governance landscape has begun under the current Caretaker Government (CTG), which assumed power 
in January 2007 under difficult political circumstances.  A key element of the governance agenda has 
been a crackdown on high-level corruption.  The CTG is giving clarity to the legal status of important 
institutions of accountability while enhancing their autonomy and effectiveness.  The CTG has also 
confirmed its commitment to holding free and fair elections to the national parliament before the end of 
2008. Most notably, it has reconstituted the Election Commission (EC) and provided it operational 
independence to reform the electoral process, political parties and campaign financing. 
Complementing its efforts on strengthening governance, the CTG is also deepening economic 
reforms.  It is extending the bonded warehouse facility to a broader universe of exporters to promote trade 
diversification.  This builds on reduction in the average nominal protection levels in the FY08 budget.  
Macroeconomic stability, which remains a 
sine qua non
 for the development agenda, has required greater 
Page  2
2
government attention because of heightened external pressures.  Confronted with steep commodity price 
inflation in global markets and unable to pass the price increases to domestic consumers, the CTG has 
nonetheless sought to maintain fiscal prudence by curtailing low priority investment projects and ramping 
up tax collection.  Policy measures to modernize tax administration and improve the institutional 
oversight of financial management functions have also been important, especially in light of the poor 
record on revenue mobilization and expenditure prioritization at the sector level which hampers 
government effectiveness. 
2. Operation objectives 
The proposed TSC will support a subset of the wide-ranging reform agenda, which is heavily focused 
on tackling critical and long-festering weaknesses in core governance functions.  Notably, the reforms 
have sought to strengthen and enhance the autonomy of important institutions of accountability such as 
the Election Commission and the Anti-Corruption Commission.  Other measures have included separation 
of the lower judiciary from the executive, preparation of the Right
–to-Information legislation, and 
formation of the Regulatory Reforms Commission to streamline the business processes.  The CTG is also 
deepening economic reforms in a number of areas, trade liberalization, macroeconomic stability, and 
strengthening public financial management and tax mobilization. 
3.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
The CTG is keen for Bank support for its ongoing policy and institutional reform program.  The TSC 
will create fiscal space for Government’s developmental expenditure at a time when the budget is 
staggering under the weight of the adverse external shocks that include the twin floods and cyclone Sidr 
in 2007 as well as rising commodity prices.  The additional fiscal space will further help strengthen 
follow-through with the difficult and often contentious governance reforms and deepening economic 
policy reforms without having to cut social expenditure or fuel inflation. 
The proposed TSC directly responds to Government of Bangladesh’s (GoB) specific request.  The 
“Transitional” part of the TSC name reflects the transitional nature of political situation in the country.  
The World Bank Group’s most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in 
April 2006, envisaged a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits being initiated in FY08 under a new 
elected government.  Because of the changed political situation and the tenure of the CTG getting 
prolonged to around two years, a one-off budget support operation seemed to be a more appropriate 
instrument under the circumstances. 
 
The emphasis on governance reforms in the proposed operation is fully consistent with the Bank’s 
most recent FY06-09 CAS, which puts governance at center stage cutting across the two pillars of the 
Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS)—
improving the investment climate 
and 
empowering the 
poor
.
To be sure, there are associated risks, not least of which has to do with the unusual political 
situation in the country and the possibility of reversal by the next elected government.  However, this has 
to be balanced against the opportunity to tackle weak governance, the single most important development 
challenge facing the country. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: (US$million.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
Page  3
3
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Monitoring and Evaluation.
Bangladesh’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) includes monitoring 
indicators, data sources, and institutional arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback to policy 
makers.  Repeated rounds of Household and Income Expenditure Survey (HIES) conducted by the 
Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) are the most important basis for poverty monitoring and analysis.  
HIES 2005 incorporates poverty trends and patterns based on a revised poverty line.  The next round of 
the HIES is planned for 2009.  A Labor Force Survey (LFS), last conducted in 2005-06, provides 
information on employment and characteristics of the labor force.  Other important sources of information 
on MDG indicators include the Demographic and Health Surveys, and the Child Nutrition Surveys.  GoB 
has also developed baseline ratings of the core public financial management (PFM) functions and has 
initiated a PFM Implementation Plan to implement its PFM strategy and provide a platform for 
harmonized development assistance. 
In recent years, capacity improvement in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) has occurred along 
multiple dimensions.  Technical assistance (TA) from the Bank has helped BBS improve the survey 
quality and speed of data processing over successive rounds of HIES.  The capacity of BBS to measure 
and analyze poverty data has benefited from close on-the-job collaboration with the Bank.  A number of 
training courses and workshops have further enhanced the analytical capacity at BBS as well as other 
government departments and non-government think tanks. With TA from the Bank, BBS has embarked 
on poverty mapping that estimates poverty for highly disaggregated geographic areas.  Country capacity 
for poverty mapping and its policy applications are also being enhanced. The Bank is also expanding its 
project assistance to BBS, which would include help on designing systems to monitor (a) welfare 
indicators and correlates of consumption poverty more frequently, and (b) labor market indicators 
annually rather than the current practice of every 3–4 years through the LFS.  The Bank with assistance 
from other donors is also engaged in a broader effort to improve the information base to inform policy 
interventions intended for the poorest.  This involves collaborating with NGOs to collect systematic data 
and design program evaluations in areas affected by 
Monga
 (a particular form of seasonal deprivation). 
Fiduciary Aspects
.
Fiduciary arrangements for this operation are the same as those used for managing 
GoB’s own foreign exchange reserves at Bangladesh Bank (BB) and budgetary resources through the 
treasury system.  While recent assessments of these fiduciary arrangements continue to highlight a weak 
environment, efforts have been made in recent years to improve the systems, with significant results. 
·
First, a comprehensive reform effort to improve PFM institutions, supported by this operation and 
parallel TA activities, is ongoing.  This includes reforms to improve budget planning, accounting and 
auditing of government transactions, financial reporting and procurement.  Accounting transactions 
are being computerized to improve the accuracy and timeliness of public financial information.  
Reconciliation of budget accounts and corresponding bank accounts is improving and 
computerization is being extended to capture these transactions. 
 
·
Second, on the foreign exchange side, the most recent IMF safeguard assessment confirmed that 
progress had been made on strengthening BB’s safeguards framework in a number of areas, including 
through the publication of BBs financial accounts (according to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS)), reconciliation of monetary data reported to the IMF with the audited accounts and 
improvements in foreign exchange management.  Starting from FY03, BB has had its financial 
statements audited by internationally affiliated audit firm in full compliance with international 
standards on auditing. 
Disbursement
.
Proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed to a specific deposit account of the Ministry of 
Finance established at BB for this purpose.  An amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will then be 
credited to an account of the Government to finance budgeted expenditures.  Transactions and balances of 
Page  4
4
the Government account will be fully incorporated into its accounting records and financial statements.  
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be 
needed.  If any portion of the Credit proceeds is used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Financing 
Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the deposit account or refund 
the amount directly to IDA. 
6.  Benefits and risks 
Benefits:
Weak governance has long been recognized as the principal development challenge for 
Bangladesh.  Since coming to power in January 2007, the CTG has pursued a wide-ranging reform 
agenda to arm the core institutions of accountability with clearer mandates, and more resources and 
operational autonomy. At the same time, it has sought to bring about more transparency and 
accountability among public entities and reduce systemic corruption.  If sustained, for which broader 
political buy-in and some early gains visible to the public would be important, these measures promise to 
reshape the governance landscape of the country in a way that did not seem possible not too long ago. Not 
only is this a major aspiration in itself, it would also be critical for reviving private sector business 
confidence, raising income levels and improving human development. Many of the critical governance 
reforms, accordingly, are at the very heart of the proposed TSC. Moreover, the reform measures aimed at 
trade diversification and improving regulatory quality are also important for stronger economic growth. 
Finally, the policy dialogue under the TSC on macroeconomic stability has helped inform better policy 
decisions to confront the various challenges currently being faced. 
Political Risks
:
Although the election process remains broadly on track, a number of associated risks 
remain.  The two dominant political parties, the Awami League (AL) and the Bangladesh Nationalist 
Party (BNP), are yet to present a coherent election strategy.  An internal feud that surfaced within the 
BNP over party leadership has been taken to the high court for resolution.  Moreover, both parties have 
demanded that the state of emergency be lifted or significantly r
elaxed ahead of the elections.  The CTG’s 
position with respect to that is not yet clear.  The US, UK, and other major bilateral development partners 
are in regular contact with the CTG over the election timetable and remain positive in their assessment of 
the progress being made. 
Sustainability of Reforms:
Reversal of governance reforms by the next elected government is a significant 
associated risk. The main assurance on the longer-term sustainability of the reforms comes from the 
broad-based public support these enjoy and from the fact that a number of key institutional reforms have 
been locked-in by government decrees and ordinances. Furthermore, in light of the crunch situation faced 
by the budget, the financing provided by the TSC would further strengthen the CTG’s resolve in 
continuing with the reforms without having to cut social expenditure or fuel inflation. 
Economic Risks
:
Extensive damage from successive floods followed by a devastating cyclone in the first 
half of FY08 and the unabated increases in global commodity prices in the absence of domestic price 
adjustment have put the economy under considerable strain. Losses at the concerned SOEs have 
escalated, draining the government budget and worsening the fragility of the public sector banks that are 
made to lend to the SOEs. Regular adjustments in domestic commodity prices would be important to 
secure sustainable macro balances. The poor in general have suffered considerably due to the rising food 
(especially rice) prices exacerbated by occasional disruptions in availability. Securing adequate food 
imports from global markets in the coming months and reenergizing competitive private sector 
participation in the domestic supply chains would be important. Over the longer run, agricultural 
productivity growth would need to pick up, for which GoB’s recent efforts to upgrade agricultural 
research bode well. Well-targeted support for the poorer segments to protect them from food inflation is a 
priority area 
Page  5
5
Natural Disasters:
The events of the past year are a cruel reminder of Bangladesh
’s inherent vulnerability 
to natural disasters, which the predicted global climate changes would only heighten. A combination of 
policy measures and improvements in safety net programs, disaster awareness, early warning systems, 
shelters and the improved capacity of civil administration have helped mitigate the impact of the natural 
disasters. The country’s renowned NGOs are also playing an increasingly important role in disaster 
prevention, recovery, and relief. GoB, together with the development partners, has also prepared a multi-
pronged strategy aimed at long-term mitigation of natural disaster damage. The World Bank, ADB, 
UNDAC, other specialized UN agencies, and several donor countries are helping strengthen the 
government’s capacity to respond to natural disasters. An area in need of improvement is the early 
warning signal alerting system to ensure that communities can better understand the level of actual risk 
they face and what they must do to protect themselves and their livelihoods. 
Fiduciary Risks:
Fungibility of funds implies that budgetary resources may be diverted or misused. GoB, 
however, has a good record of allocating public spending to key development sectors. Auditing 
arrangements and financial management within line ministries are being strengthened which further 
mitigates the risk of resources being misused. The new procurement law is expected to further reduce the 
scope for misuse of budgetary funds in contracting. External oversight by the C&AG’s office is also 
being strengthened.  To enhance the safeguard framework, BB is strengthening its financial management. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impact and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impact
.
This TSC operation seeks to strengthen the core institutions of accountability 
and deepen policy reforms to build a stronger investment climate for accelerated growth and, over the 
medium to long run, improve public service delivery by reducing systemic corruption and increasing the 
transparency and oversight of the core governance institutions.  Separation of the judiciary from the 
executive and greater institutionalized access to information will improve the dispensation of justice and 
transparency of public services, especially for the poor.  Measures to strengthen institutions for 
expenditure management will improve both the pro-poor and gender orientation of the budget.  Reforms 
geared toward export diversification and improving the regulatory quality are expected to stimulate labor-
intensive manufacturing, as was the case for the garments sector, with attendant positive impact on 
employment creation and poverty reduction.  
Reforms in administered prices are needed to improve the financial viability of energy and fertilizer 
SOEs – which account for more than two thirds of total SOE losses – and to improve the provision of 
energy and fertilizer in the country. Moreover, being completely non-targeted, there is substantial leakage 
of the subsidies to wealthier households.  Elimination of these subsidies would generate substantial fiscal 
space for expanding social programs.  Recent World Bank and IMF studies show that targeted transfers 
using the budgetary savings to compensate the poor would be a much more efficient way of protecting 
them from higher prices.  The direct effect of higher fertilizer prices on the poor households is also likely 
to be small. 
Nonetheless, any adverse impact, however small, is bound to be painful for the poor, with attached 
political and social sensitivities. Recognizing this, GoB has provisioned Tk 7.5 billion in the FY08 budget 
to compensate poor rice farmers for the increase in diesel prices that took effect in April 2007.  The cash 
subsidy would be offered to marginal and poor rice farmers with 2.5 acres or less farmland and to those 
that grow rice on the same amount of leased land.  Future increases in energy and fertilizer prices would 
also promote more efficient use of these products, discourage smuggling to India and Myanmar, and, 
above all, generate significant budgetary savings than can be used to expand social safety programs. 
Environmental Issues
:
The extent of environmental degradation in Bangladesh poses a substantial social 
and economic concern.  Analysis in the recently completed Bangladesh Country Environmental Analysis 
Page  6
6
suggests that policy initiatives to reduce environmental health risks associated with poor water quality and 
urban and indoor air pollution could result in economic savings of as much as 3.5 percent of GDP.  A 
number of critical issues regarding environmental health, natural resource productivity, and urban and 
industrial pollution have been at the center of Bank’s policy dialogue with GoB and will remain a 
strategic challenge of utmost importance.  Globally, Bangladesh is in the very frontline of countries 
vulnerable to the likely impacts of climate change. The Bank will fully support GoB efforts being 
initiated to strengthen adaptation to climate change.
 
Overall, the policies directly supported by the TSC will not have significant negative effects on the 
environment, natural resources, or forests.  
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Sandeep Mahajan 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0287 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: smahajan@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
