Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3866 
Operation Name 
BD Transitional Support Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (20%); General industry and trade 
sector (20%); Central government administration (20%); Banking 
(20%); Law and justice (20%) 
Project ID 
P110167 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 29, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 25, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 10, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bangladesh’s development record in recent years has been impressive. Annual economic growth has averaged 
over 6 percent over the last five years; the poverty rate fell from 49 percent of the population in 2000 to 40 
percent in 2005; and progress toward several other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has been 
satisfactory. This performance is all the more noteworthy when viewed against the many development-
constraining factors that the country faces. Growing population in Bangladesh – among the most densely 
populated countries in the world – is crowding out land for agriculture. In addition, one-third of the country’s 
scarce land is normally flooded for three months each year and natural disasters (floods and cyclones) are a 
frequent occurrence. Yet, despite all this and a meager endowment of natural resources, Bangladesh has continued 
its steady economic and social progress. 
 
Weak governance and ineffective institutions, however, remain a persistent threat to Bangladesh’s 
development. Successive governments since the early 1990s have focused on economic liberalization, 
deregulation and macroeconomic stability, which generated good growth and enabled decline in the poverty rate. 
Efforts to strengthen governance and build effective institutions necessary for a mature market economy and 
service delivery have been more sporadic. A transformation of the governance landscape has begun under the 
current Caretaker Government (CTG), which assumed power in January 2007 under difficult political 
circumstances. Complementing its efforts on governance, the CTG is also deepening economic reforms.  
The CTG is keen for Bank support for its ongoing policy and institutional reform program. The TSC will 
create fiscal space for higher government developmental expenditure at a time when the budget is staggering 
under the weight of the adverse external shocks that include the twin floods and cyclone Sidr in 2007 as well as 
rising commodity prices. The additional fiscal space will further help strengthen follow-through with the difficult 
and often contentious governance reforms and deepening of economic policy reforms without having to cut social 
expenditure or fuel inflation. 
The proposed Transitional Support Credit (TSC) directly responds to Government of Bangladesh’s (GoB) 
specific request. The “Transitional” part of the TSC name reflects the transitional nature of political situation in 
the country. The World Bank Group’s most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Bank’s 
Board in April 2006, envisaged a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits being initiated in FY08 under a 
new elected government. Because of the changed political situation and the tenure of the CTG getting prolonged 
to around two years, a one-off budget support operation seemed to be a more appropriate instrument under the 
circumstances. The emphasis on governance reforms in the proposed operation is fully consistent with the Bank’s 
most recent FY06-09 CAS, which puts governance at center stage cutting across the two pillars of the 
Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS)—
improving the investment climate 
and 
empowering the poor
.
To be sure, there are associated risks, not least of which has to do with the unusual political situation in the 
Page  2
country and the possibility of reversal by the next elected government. However, this has to be balanced against 
the opportunity to tackle weak governance, the single most important development challenge facing the country. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
Critical governance reforms are at the very heart of the proposed TSC. Weak governance has long been 
recognized as the principal development challenge for Bangladesh. Since coming to power in January 2007, the 
CTG has pursued a wide-ranging reform agenda to arm the core institutions of accountability with clearer 
mandates, and more resource and operational autonomy. At the same time, it has sought to bring about more 
transparency and accountability among public entities and reduce systemic corruption. If sustained, for which 
broader political buy-in and some early gains visible to the public would be important, these measures promise to 
reshape the governance landscape of the country in a way that did not seem possible not too long ago. Not only is 
this a major aspiration in itself, it would also be critical for reviving private sector business confidence, raising 
income levels and improving human development. The TSC would also support reform measures aimed at trade 
diversification, improving regulatory quality, and macroeconomic stability, needed for stronger economic growth.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed TSC will support a subset of the 
CTG’s wide-ranging reform agenda. Emphasis will be placed 
on reform measures that seek to strengthen the core institutions of accountability (such as the Anti-Corruption 
Commission) and deepen policy reforms to build a stronger investment climate for accelerated growth and, over 
the medium to long run, improve public service delivery. Among other TSC-supported measures, separation of 
the judiciary from the executive and greater institutionalized access to information would improve the 
dispensation of justice and transparency of public services, especially for the poor. Measures to strengthen 
institutions for expenditure management will improve both the pro-poor and gender orientation of the budget. 
Reforms geared toward export diversification and improving the regulatory quality are expected to stimulate 
labor-intensive manufacturing, as was the case for the garments sector, with attendant positive impact on 
employment creation and poverty reduction. Macroeconomic stability while remaining a 
sine qua non
 for the 
development agenda will require greater government attention because of heightened external pressures.  
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
The extent of environmental degradation in Bangladesh poses a substantial social and economic concern. 
Analysis in the recently completed Bangladesh Country Environmental Analysis suggests that policy initiatives to 
reduce environmental health risks associated with poor water quality and urban and indoor air pollution could 
result in economic savings of as much as 3.5 percent of GDP. A number of critical issues regarding environmental 
health, natural resource productivity, and urban and industrial pollution have been at the center of Bank’s policy 
dialogue with GoB and will remain a strategic challenge of utmost importance. Globally, Bangladesh is in the 
very frontline of countries vulnerable to the likely impacts of climate change. The Bank will fully support GoB 
efforts being initiated to strengthen adaptation to climate change.
 
Overall, the policies directly supported by the TSC will not have significant negative effects on the 
environment, natural resources, or forests. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Sandeep Mahajan 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0287 
Page  3
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: smahajan@worldbank.org
 
