Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 4422- BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Transitional Support Credit Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 17, 2008  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 17
,
2008, entered into between PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred and twenty one million, five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 121
,500,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. . 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or 
any Joint Secretary, or Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or 
Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or 
Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Facsimile: 
 
88-02-811-3088 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By: /s/ M. Humayun Kabir 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Xian Zhu 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has achieved sustainable fiscal balances through a mix of actions 
that include: (i) credible reforms to bolster revenue mobilization; (ii) reduction in 
the Annual Development Plan expenditures by dropping or putting on hold low 
priority new and ongoing investment projects; and (iii) initiation of measures 
including adjustment in administered prices to stem the flow of state-owned 
enterprise losses which in turn, will reduce the burden of subsidies on the 
Government of Bangladesh’s budget.   
 
2. 
The Recipient has adopted a new policy on export competitiveness.  
 
3. 
The Recipient’s Council of Advisers has approved a draft ordinance on public 
resources and budget management. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has approved an action plan to separate the accounts and audit 
functions of public financial management.  
 
5. 
The Recipient has: (i) established a Supreme Judicial Commission for the 
selection of High Court and Appellate Division judges; and (ii) taken all 
necessary and appropriate action to give effect to the Appellate Division’s 
judgment regarding the separation of the executive from the judiciary in 
Secretary, Ministry of Finance v. Masdar Hossain, 20 Bangladesh Legal 
Decisions 141 (Appellate Division 2000). 
 
6. 
The Recipient has undertaken the preparation of a draft ordinance on the right to 
information through a transparent and consultative process that includes 
discussions with civil society and other relevant stakeholders. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has: (i) established an electronic registry of regulations, which are 
in force and placed on the Bangladesh Government Press’s website; and (ii) 
taken appropriate action to ensure that its government agencies have adopted a 
majority of the recommendations in the Regulatory Reform Action Plan.  
 
8. 
The Recipient’s Council of Advisors has: (i) approved the corporatization of 
Biman Bangladesh Airlines as a company registered under the Bangladesh 
Companies Act 1994; and (ii) approved, in principle, an ordinance constituting 
the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board as a public limited company to 
Page  6
-
5
-
be called the Bangladesh Telecommunications Company Limited under the 
Bangladesh Companies Act 1994. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
121,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
121,500,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts
.
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 1 and August 1: 
 
Commencing August 1, 2018 to and including 
February 1, 2028 
1% 
commencing August 1, 2028 to and including 
February 1, 2048. 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Annual Development Program” means the Government of Bangladesh’s 
program for financing development expenditures during each fiscal year. 
 
2. 
“Council of Advisors” means the Recipient’s Council of Advisers constituted 
under Article 58C(1) of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 23, 2008, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
