                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR1115



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                ON CREDIT (IDA-44220)


                   FOR A TOTAL AMOUNT OF SDR 121.5 MILLION
                         (US$200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO

                     THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



                                           FOR

                         A TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT CREDIT




                                     DECEMBER 30, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Finance
Bangladesh Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                                    GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1 ­ June 30
                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (Tk)
                                US$1 = Tk 69.15 (December 28, 2009)

                                ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

ACC     Anti-Corruption Commission                     M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
ADB     Asian Development Bank                         MoF        Ministry of Finance
ADP     Annual Development Program                     MOLJPA     Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary
                                                                  Affairs
AL      Awami league                                   NBR        National Board of Revenue
BB      Bangladesh Bank                                NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
BBBF    Bangladesh Better Business Forum               PDB        Power Development Board
BBS     Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics                PDO        Program Development Objectives
BCIC    Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation     PFM        Public Financial Management
BOGMC   Bangladesh Oil, gas and Mineral Corporation    PPA        Public Procurement Act
BOI     Board of Investment                            PRBMO      Public Resources and Budget Management
                                                                  Ordinance
BPC     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation               PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
BTCL    Bangladesh Telecom Company Limited             PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers
BTTB    Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board       PSC        Public Service Commission
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                    RMG        Readymade Garment
C&AG    Comptroller and Auditor General                RRC        Regulatory Reforms Commission
CNG     Compressed Natural Gas                         RTI        Right to Information
CPI     Consumer Price Index                           SDR        Special Drawing Right
CTG     Caretaker Government                           SJC        Supreme Judicial Commission
DSC     Development Support Credit                     SOE        State-Owned Enterprise
FY      Fiscal Year                                    TIB        Transparency International Bangladesh
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         Tk         Bangladeshi Taka
GOB     Government of Bangladesh                       TSC        Transitional Support Credit
IDA     International Development Association          UN         United Nations
IFC     International Finance Corporation              UNDAC      United Nations Disaster Assessment &
                                                                  Coordination
IMF     International Monetary Fund                    VAT        Value-Added Tax
ISR     Implementation Status and Results              VRS        Voluntary Retirement Scheme
Kg      kilogram




                    Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
                 Country Director:          Ellen Goldstein, SACBD
                   Sector Director:         Ernesto May, SASPF
                  Sector Manager:           Miria A. Pigato, SASEP
                Task Team Leader:           Vinaya Swaroop and Sandeep Mahajan, SASEP
                ICRR Team Leader            Lalita Moorty, SASEP
                                          Preface


The Transitional Support Credit was extended to the Government of the People's Republic of
Bangladesh in May 2008 in the amount of SDR121.5 million (US$200 million equivalent). The
entire amount was drawn down upon effectiveness.

Lalita Moorty (SASEP) led the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) team and
was responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of the report. The ICRR team
consisted of Zaidi Sattar (Consultant, SASEP and principal author), Zahid Hussain, Sanjana
Zaman, Mehar Akhtar Khan, and Mildred Gonzalves (SASEP).

The report is based on interviews with and inputs from World Bank staff (headquarters and the
country office), key government officials, and materials from project files. The ICRR team is
especially grateful for inputs from Vinaya Swaroop (Task team leader of the operation, MDW),
Sandeep Mahajan (Task team leader, AFTP1), M. Khurshid Alam (SASFP), Suraiya Zannath
(SARFM), Sakuntala Akmeemana (SASGP), and Tenzin Norbhu (CITPO). Mehar Akhtar Khan,
Mildred Gonzalves, and Rita Soni (SASEP) retrieved SAP data and skillfully formatted the ICRR
document.

The ICRR team gratefully acknowledges overall guidance from Sanjay Kathuria (Lead
Economist and Country Sector Coordinator) and Miria Pigato (Sector Manager, SASEP). The
ICRR was virtually reviewed on December 15th, 2009. Agata Pawlowska (CFPIR) was the peer
reviewer for this document.

The ICRR team appreciates the cooperation of government officials who were interviewed for
this report (See Annex 7).
                          THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                         TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT CREDIT (IDA-44220)
                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                                                CONTENTS


Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................................ i
A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs....................................................................................v
H. Restructuring ...............................................................................................................................v


1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..............................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................................6
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................................13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................................14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................................15
6. Lessons Learned .........................................................................................................................17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............................18


Annex A: GOB views on the usefulness of The Transitional Support Credit (TSC) ....................19
Annex B: Ordinances ratified as Acts of the 9th Parliament of Bangladesh ..................................21
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..............................26
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................................27
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................................27
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.......................................28
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.........................................29
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................30
Annex 7: List of persons interviewed .............................................................................................31

MAP (BAN3368)
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Transitional Support
Country:                Bangladesh              Program Name:
                                                                          Credit
Program ID:             P110167                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44220
ICR Date:               01/26/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 121.5M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 121.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 121.5M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/20/2008     Effectiveness:                               06/18/2008
Appraisal:            04/25/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/17/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem        No                     Quality at Entry        None


                                                i
Program at any time                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                            6                    6
Central government administration                                  50                    50
General industry and trade sector                                  25                    25
Law and justice                                                    13                    13
Telecommunications                                                  6                     6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                           25                   25
Export development and competitiveness                              25                   25
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                    13                   13
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    24                   24
procurement
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization               13                   13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                  Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                  Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                     Ijaz Nabi
Program Team Leader:       Lalita M. Moorty                    Vinaya Swaroop
ICR Team Leader:           Lalita M. Moorty
ICR Primary Author:        Zaidi Sattar


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1.    The TSC supported the Government#s ongoing policy and institutional reform
program. The key elements of these reforms were to: (a) ensure a stable macroeconomic
framework and enhance growth by improving export competitiveness; (b) improve public


                                                ii
financial management through responsible budgetary stance and better oversight of
public finances; (c) strengthen institutions of accountability and improve the business
regulatory environment; and (d) improve the performance of state-owned enterprises.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Stable public debt to GDP ratio
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Macroeconomic stability was maintained despite recurring external shocks. As
(incl. %
                   a result, the ratio of public debt to GDP ratios remained stable in FY09.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Declining trend in energy and fertilizer State Owned Enterprises# (SOE) losses
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           In FY09, the administered sales prices were increased faster than the world
(incl. %           prices of crude and urea. This resulted in a decline in the losses of the four
achievement)       large SOEs in FY09 and therefore a decline in the budgetary transfers to them.
Indicator 3 :      Improving competitiveness of exports
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           While robust growth in both RMG and non-RMG exports were maintained in
(incl. %           FY08, this suffered a setback in FY09 largely because of the global economic
achievement)       crisis.
                   Budgetary outcomes consistent with quantitative targets in the final Public
Indicator 4 :
                   Resources and Budget Management Ordinance (PRBMO)
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   Unable to assess because the final Public Money and Budget Management Bill
Comments
                   (PMBMB) # now a law # no longer includes quantitative targets. It is,
(incl. %
                   however, noteworthy that fiscal discipline was largely maintained despite
achievement)
                   several external shocks.


                                                iii
                   Appointment of at least 200 #judicial magistrates# by the Judicial Services
Indicator 5 :
                   Commission (JSC)
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Despite initial problems, the JSC successfully appointed 329 magistrates in the
(incl. %           first batch and selected another 211 in the second batch. The latter group is
achievement)       expected to join in January, 2010.
Indicator 6 :      Improvement in the business regulatory environment
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   The improvements in the time taken to register a business, property, export and
(incl. %
                   import are noteworthy although they cannot be directly attributed to the TSC.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Financial and operational efficiency of Biman
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Biman#s losses have turned into a modest profit of US$10 million due to
(incl. %           improved operational efficiency although the commissioning of more aircrafts
achievement)       into the fleet is still months away.
                   Financial and operational efficiency of Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone
Indicator 8 :
                   Board
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
                   BTTB, revenues have improved because of greater organizational efficiency
Comments
                   achieved, partly through reforms but also because of pressure of competition
(incl. %
                   from private sector operators in this fast expanding sector. BTCL#s lines per
achievement)
                   employee increased.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      not applicable
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved


                                                iv
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                     Actual
        Date ISR
No.                         DO              IP   Disbursements
        Archived
                                                 (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                    v
                     TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT CREDIT
          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT (ICRR)


The Backdrop

1.       A transitional government provided a window of opportunity for reforms.
                                                   1
Bangladesh had a Caretaker Government (CTG) from January 2007 to December 2008. The
CTG was a transitional government whose principal mandate was to transfer power to an elected
                     2
civilian government. The CTG saw the two-year interregnum as an opportunity to undertake
several policy and institutional reforms, with support from development partners. For its part, the
World Bank continued its dialogue with the CTG (the government that was in charge) and
perceived it as a means to ensure a continuous focus on critical policy uses and to address long-
standing weaknesses in governance. To evaluate this IDA operation, the ICRR will focus on both
the wide-ranging reforms initiated by the transitional government as well as relevant actions
undertaken by the successor elected government.

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

         1.1     Context at Appraisal

2.      The Bank supported Bangladesh through a number of budget support operations.
From 2003-07, the Bank supported the Government's policy and institutional reform program
through a series of multi-sector, budget-support operations ­ the Development Support Credits
(DSCs). In addition, a fast-track emergency operation was prepared in October 2008 to mitigate
the impact of high food prices and enhance food security through an expansion of the food-
related safety net programs while maintaining sustainable public finances. Between the DSC
series and the Food Crisis operation, a Transitional Support Credit (TSC) was processed in June
2008. The TSC was designed to support a core set of institutional and policy reforms being
pursued by the government during the transition period. This stand-alone operation was a $200
million credit, which was drawn down upon effectiveness.

3.       There is an apparent paradox of development progress despite weak governance in
Bangladesh. In the years leading up to the TSC, Bangladesh grew at a healthy rate of over 6
percent leading to a decline in poverty by 2 percentage points each year. Sound macroeconomic
management ­ characterized by fiscal and external sustainability ­ helped underpin the robust
GDP growth and poverty reduction. This strong growth performance was all the more impressive
because it was achieved despite recurring natural disasters and a meager endowment of natural
resources. More interestingly, the GDP growth came despite corruption and lack of functional
institutions for checks and balances. This apparent disconnect between progress on development
and weak governance has often been referred to as the "Bangladesh paradox."



1
    There is a constitutional provision in Bangladesh for a 90-day transition period between two elected
    Governments to ensure free and fair elections during which the country is run by a CTG. For various
    domestic political reasons, this CTG remained in power for two years.
2
    A new elected government was formed in January 2009 by the Awami league (AL) party ­ one of the
    two main political parties in Bangladesh.

                                                   1
4.       During the transition period, the government took steps to tackle the deep-seated
governance problems. This included implementing an anti-corruption and governance agenda
upon assuming power in January 2007. Key related actions included: accession to the UN
Convention Against Corruption; enforcement of highly-visible judicial decisions across the
political spectrum; separation of the lower judiciary from the executive; strengthening of and
provision for greater operational autonomy to the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) and the
Public Service Commission (PSC); establishment of stronger local government structures; and
improvements in the quality and accountability of public administration, including the preparation
of the Right to Information legislation.

5.       In addition, the government undertook several complementary economic reforms
during the transition period. To improve dialogue between the private sector and the
government as well as to promote private investment, the GoB during the transition period
constituted the Bangladesh Better Business Forum and the Regulatory Reforms Commission
(RRC). In addition, to promoting trade diversification, the government extended the special
bonded warehouse facilities to a broader set of exporters. In response to steep increases in
international commodity prices, oil and fertilizer in particular, the government sought to maintain
fiscal prudence by adjusting administered prices of urea and CNG and strengthening revenue
collection.

6.       In light of the "Bangladesh paradox," it is ironic that just as the transitional
government began concerted efforts to tackle the deep-seated policy and intuitional
problems, the macroeconomic situation came under increasing strain. The macroeconomic
situation was well under control until June 2007 with the fiscal, monetary and external indicators
remaining within the thresholds of the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF under the
Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF) program. However, strains began to emerge due to
external shocks. Rising global food and commodity prices created inflationary pressures.
Meanwhile, the budget ­ already stretched thin because of additional expenditures to deal with
recurring natural disasters ­ was further strained by the insufficient adjustment of administered
energy and fertilizer prices in FY07/08 which resulted in large losses for the State-Owned
Enterprises (SOEs).

7.       Against this background, the TSC was processed in response to the government's
request for budget support. This operation helped create the necessary fiscal space for tackling
difficult and long-overdue governance and economic reforms. The "transitional" part of the TSC
name reflects the transitional nature of the CTG. As a background, the World Bank Group's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) envisaged a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits
being initiated in FY08 under a new elected government. Because of the changed political
situation and the tenure of the CTG getting prolonged to around two years, a one-off budget
support operation seemed to be a more appropriate instrument because the CTG was in no
position to make a credible commitment to a multi-year reform program. It is useful to note that
the underlying theme that runs through many of the reforms supported by the TSC is a marked
emphasis on improving governance. This emphasis was in line with the CAS, which put
governance at the center stage cutting across all sectors.

        1.2     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators:

8.      The Program had four main PDOs. Several relevant indicators were chosen to mark
progress on the PDOs.



                                                2
        a. Maintaining macroeconomic stability and enhancing growth by improving export
           competitiveness. The key indicators for the PDO are:

                 i. Stable debt to GDP ratio.
                ii. Declining trend in energy and fertilizer losses.
               iii. Strong growth of manufacturing exports, with rising trend in the growth of
                    non Readymade Garment exports.

        b. Strengthening institutions for improving public financial management.          The key
           indicators for the PDO are:

                 i. Consistency of budgetary outcomes with those specified in the finalized
                    Public Resources and Budget Management Ordinance (PRBMO).

        c. Strengthening institutions of accountability and the business regulatory environment.
           The key indicators for the PDO are:

                 i. Appointment of at least 200 "judicial magistrates" by the Judicial Services
                    Commission with training completed under the Judicial Administration or
                    Training Institute or equivalent program.
                ii. Sustained improvement in the key doing business indicators: time taken to
                    register a business, time taken to export and import, and time taken to
                    register a property.

        d. Improving the performance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs). The key indicators
           for the PDO are:

                 i. Improvements in operational and financial efficiency of indicators for Biman
                    (net losses and passenger payload) and Bangladesh Telegraph and
                    Telephone Board (lines per employee and net profit).

        1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification: Not applicable

        1.4     Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program:

       A. Maintain macroeconomic stability and enhance growth by improving export
competitiveness.

9.       The reforms supported under the TSC were designed to restore macroeconomic
stability by addressing the difficult fiscal situation. This difficult situation arose because of
the rising global oil and fertilizer prices, which when combined with upwardly rigid administered
domestic prices meant higher losses for the intermediating SOEs and therefore required larger
than anticipated transfers from the budget. The government undertook steps to achieve
sustainable fiscal balances by bolstering efforts to mobilize revenues and initiating measures to
adjust administered prices to reflect rising global trends. In addition, the government also took
steps to enhance the competitiveness of exports to support higher growth.

10.     Mobilizing revenues. Bangladesh has one of the lowest tax/GDP ratios among countries
at similar levels of development. Therefore, as part of its strategy to increase revenues, the
government focused on increasing tax collection. This was largely to be achieved by improving
compliance and collecting past arrears rather than attempting structural reforms of the tax system.

                                                3
The Government implemented the following measures: (i) introduced universal self assessment in
income tax; (ii) introduced direct trader input in import cargo clearance to improve efficiency in
customs; and (iii) offered a special time-bound opportunity to disclose undeclared income in the
early part of FY08. As a result, total tax revenue grew by 26.9 percent in FY08.

11.         Initiating measures to adjust administered prices. To reduce losses of the SOEs and
to lower the transfers from the budget, the administered prices of petroleum products, urea
fertilizer and compressed natural gas (CNG) were increased as indicated in Table 1 below. This
move was contentious but long overdue ­ indeed, the price of fertilizer was increased for the first
time since FY96. The rationale behind increasing the prices was not only to reduce the loss of the
SOEs, estimated to be about $950 million or 1.2 percent of GDP in FY08, and subsequently
reduce the burden of subsidies to the Government budget, but also to eliminate the gap between
                                                                                           3
domestic and border prices to discourage smuggling of fertilizer and diesel to India. The
government also made a commitment to adjust petroleum, particularly diesel prices, which it did
with effect from July 1, 2008.

                                    Table 1: Petroleum Prices and Urea Prices
                        Item                              FY06     FY07    FY08              FY09
                        Diesel Pump Price (Tk/litre)             30       35        40        55
                        Petrol Pump Price (Tk/litre)             42       58        65        87
                        LPG Cylinder (Tk)                       600       600       600      1000
                        Urea Buffer level (Tk/Kg) 1/            5.3       5.3       5.3      10.7
                        Urea for Farmers (Tk/Kg) 2/              6         6         6        12
                        Memorandum Items
                        Brent Crude Oil World Price               23     28         31        42
                        (Tk/Litre)
                        Urea World Price (Tk/Kg)                  15     15         21        34
                        1/ This is the price at which urea is supplied to the fertilizer factories
                        2/ Retail price of urea fertilizer to farmers
                        Source: IDA Report No. ICR00001297



12.     Liberalizing trade and enhancing export competitiveness. The government cut
nominal import tariff protection and took steps to simplify the tariff structure. In addition, the
government took measures to improve the efficiency of the Chittagong port, which handles 90
percent of the country's merchandise trade. Finally, the government adopted a new policy to
enhance competitiveness of exports and diversify the export base by extending the bonded
warehouse facility to all exports subject to some minimum thresholds. Implementation began
with the extension of the facility to the ship building industry in April 2008.




3
    The diesel price gap between India and Bangladesh was Tk 18.9/liter before the price adjustments.
    After adjustments this was narrowed to Tk 3.9/liter. The same applies to fertilizer. The pre adjustment
    price was half the Indian price. After adjustment the price was doubled to make it on par with the
    Indian prices.

                                                       4
          B. Strengthening institutions for improving public financial management.

13.     Tightening fiscal discipline and enhancing transparency. The transitional government
took several steps to enhance fiscal discipline and transparency (see Program Document pages
13-15). Among these steps, the government prepared a draft Public Resources and Budget
Management Ordinance (PRBMO) which put quantitative limits on public borrowing from
domestic sources (including the Bangladesh Bank), suppliers' credit and contingent liabilities
with government guarantee, domestic debt and foreign debt. The Ordinance further required the
Finance Minister to brief Parliament about revenue earnings and government expenditures every
three months, and to place in parliament a mid-term budget with projections on public incomes
and expenditures for the next two years. The Ordinance also required subsidy and investment
support to SOEs to be explicitly provided in the budget. In addition, to strengthen financial
accountability across ministries, the government sought to separate accounting functions from
audit functions. This would allow better deployment of skills to perform financial management
functions and eventually the development of a broader Public Financial Management Cadre to
provide full financial management support to ministries. As part of this effort, the government
approved an action plan to separate the accounts and audit functions of public financial
management.

       C. Strengthening institutions of accountability and improving the business regulatory
environment.

14.      Minimizing potential for politicization of judicial appointments. Among several
steps to reform institutions of accountability, the CTG made efforts to put in place processes that
would minimize the potential for politicization of institutions. As part of this, the government
took steps to implement the separation of the judiciary from the executive arm of the
government.4 In addition, in an effort to depoliticize appointments to the higher judiciary, the
government formed the Supreme Judicial Commission to make recommendations for candidates
to be appointed as judges in the High Court and Appellate Divisions of the Supreme Court. This
move was intended to make a break from past practices and facilitate greater transparency and
impartiality in the appointment of judges.

15.      Right to information. In the transition period, to further enhance transparency and
facilitate the sharing of information, the government adopted measures to institutionalize the
public's right to information held by the government. A committee was established to draft a
Right-to-Information Ordinance, which proposes an institutionalized framework for access to
information, including provisions for suo moto disclosure. The Ordinance was promulgated in
October 2008.

16.     Facilitating business. The government constituted the Regulatory Reforms Commission
(RRC) to amend the administrative rules and regulations to facilitate business activity. It also
constituted the Bangladesh Better Business Forum (BBBF) to foster dialogue between the
government and the private sector. The TSC supported actions that were undertaken to
operationalize the RRC. As part of this, the government established an electronic registry of
regulations that are in force and placed them on the Bangladesh Government's Press's Website.




4
    This was in compliance with the Supreme Court's judgment in the Masdar Hossain case.


                                                    5
In addition, appropriate action was taken to ensure that its agencies have adopted a majority of
the recommendations in the Regulatory Reform Action Plan.

       D. Improving the performance of State-Owned Enterprises.

17.      Restructuring key SOEs. Bangladesh has a large and dominant State Owned Enterprise
(SOE) sector spanning both the non-financial as well as financial enterprises. The SOEs span
various key sectors of the Bangladesh economy: manufacturing, electricity, gas, water, transport
and communications, trading, agriculture, construction, services, and finance. This dominant
SOE sector has important fiscal and macroeconomic implications for the Bangladesh economy.
The CTG continued with several efforts to restructure key SOEs. The TSC supported the
restructuring of the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB) and Bangladesh Biman.

18.     Improving telecommunication services. The SOE reform program includes the
changing of BTTB ­ an erstwhile monopoly and the largest fixed telephone line entity ­ into a
public limited company named Bangladesh Telecommunications Company Limited (BTCL).
The TSC supported the restructuring of BTTB into BTCL to improve telecom services by
offering cheaper domestic and leased lines to customers, expanding interconnection services and
creating a more level playing field.

19.      Making Biman more cost effective. The restructuring of Biman was also supported by
the TSC. Biman was registered under the Bangladesh Companies Act to make it a public limited
company. In addition, the CTG reconstituted the Biman Board, with eight out of its ten members
from the private sector. Biman was also planning on retiring more staff through VRS, while
working out public-private partnership models for its operation and ownership as well as other
restructuring measures to make its operations more profitable.

20.    The TSC operation was predicated on a number of prior actions (Table 2).

       1.5     Revised Policy Areas: Not applicable

       1.6     Other significant changes: Not applicable


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

       2.1     Program Performance

21.     Over the past decade, the government maintained macroeconomic stability despite
recurring shocks to the economy. Macroeconomic stability was helped along by a series of
budget support operations provided under the IDA's Development Support Credit program
(2003-07), and by IMF's PRGF that ended in June 2007. During the transition period, the
macroeconomic situation was threatened by a series of exogenous shocks in the form of floods
and cyclone "sidr" in 2007, food and oil price shocks during 2007-08, followed by the global
financial and economic crisis that began in the last quarter of 2008. Unless these shocks were
addressed proactively, the hard-earned macroeconomic stability could have been undermined.

22.      Against this background, the TSC helped the CTG maintain macroeconomic
stability. The immediate task at the time was to maintain fiscal balance in the face of sharp
increases in global commodity and food prices. Two supplementary financing operations totaling
US$175 million had already helped address the economic consequences of the natural disasters of

                                               6
2007. The sharp rise in global commodity prices (food grain, edible oil, fertilizer, and petroleum
prices rose 34 percent on average) presented the economy with a terms-of-trade shock and
constituted a major burden for the budget. Rising global prices of fertilizer and fuel caused
government subsidies to rise from 0.5 percent of GDP to over 2 percent within the year.


                  Table 2: Policy Areas and Prior Actions Supported by the TSC
 Reform Area Supported by                   Prior Actions as per the Program Document
          the TSC
Implementing               a The government took steps to (i) bolster revenues; (ii) reduce Annual
macroeconomic framework Development Program expenditures by putting on hold or dropping low
conducive for broad-based, priority expenditures; and (iii) initiate measures to stem the SOE losses
long-term economic growth by adjusting the administered sale prices implying lower transfers from
and strengthening export the budget to cover them.
competitiveness.
                              The government adopted a new policy for export competitiveness.
Strengthen public financial The government approved in principle a draft Public Resource and
management by instituting a Budget Management Ordinance (PRBMO) 2008.
framework      to     ensure
responsible budgetary stance The government approved an action plan to separate the accounts and
and improving oversight.      audit functions of public financial management.


Strengthen institutions of      Establishment of a Supreme Judicial Commission, which is mandated to
accountability to improve       undertake a selection process against various criteria (including academic
governance     and    reduce    qualifications, professional skills, integrity, experience) and to make
corruption. Strengthen the      recommendations to the President for appointments to the High Court and
business           regulatory   Appellate Divisions of the Supreme Court.
environment.
                                The government undertook the preparation of a draft Ordinance on the
                                Right-to-Information through a transparent and consultative process that
                                includes discussion with civil society and other relevant stakeholders.

                                The government established an electronic registry of regulations which
                                are in force and placed on the Bangladesh Government's Press website.

                                The government took appropriate action to ensure that its agencies have
                                adopted a majority of the recommendations in the Regulatory Reform
                                Action Plan.
Improving the performance       The Council of Advisers approved the corporatization of Biman
of SOEs.                        Bangladesh Airlines as a company registered under the Bangladesh
                                Companies Act 1994.

                                The Council of Advisers approved, in principle, an ordinance constituting
                                the Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Board as public limited
                                company to be called the Bangladesh Telecommunications Company
                                Limited under the Bangladesh Companies Act 1994.

23.     All key macroeconomic indicators show that macroeconomic stability was
maintained despite external shocks (Table 3). Real GDP grew by an average of 6.3 percent
during FY07-08, dipping to a still healthy 5.9 percent in FY09 despite the global economic crisis.
Thus the economy remained resilient to multiple shocks (natural, commodity prices, and the

                                                 7
global economic crisis). The overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) stayed within the range of
3.1-3.6 percent of GDP during FY07-09, with domestic financing contained below 2 percent of
GDP. This was helped by a reduction in SOE losses that fell below 1 percent in FY09, down
from 2.3 percent of GDP the previous year. As a result, the ratio of public debt to GDP declined
from 46.5 percent in FY07 to 44.8 percent in FY09 and is projected to decline further to 44.4
percent in FY10. Thus all macroeconomic indicators remained on target. These results were
achieved by adhering to prudent expenditure levels, enhanced revenue mobilization, restricting
fiscal deficits to reasonable levels, and capping domestic financing requirements.

24.      Some efforts were made to bolster revenue mobilization but structural problems
remain. As indicated in Table 3 above, after some years of stagnation, tax revenue responded to
the renewed efforts in improving compliance and expanding coverage, with stronger monitoring
and vigilance. The increase in the tax to GDP ratios so achieved (0.8 percent) in FY08 has been
maintained since then as tax revenues matched nominal GDP growth. However, increasing
                                                                                                    5
tax/GDP ratio to the 10-12 percent range requires deeper structural reforms of the tax system.
The key elements of the tax reform include: (i) restructuring the VAT to simplify the system,
move towards a modern invoice-based credit system, broaden the base and reduce reliance on
inefficient incentives and truncated levies; (ii) limiting the use of tax holidays and other measures
that erode the tax base; iii) rationalizing the tariff structure to minimize anti-export bias and
create incentives for export diversification; and (iv) restructuring and modernization of tax
administration by moving towards functional rather than tax-by-tax organization as is currently
the case.


                                                Table 3: Bangladesh Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                        FY02      FY03      FY04        FY05     FY06          FY07   FY08    FY09
Output and Prices                                                                annual percentage change
   Real GDP Growth                                       4.4       5.3       6.3        6        6.6      6.4          6.2    5.9
   CPI                                                   2.8       4.4       5.8      6.5        7.2      7.2          9.9    6.7
External Outlook
   Exports (f.o.b.) ($ bill)                             5.9       6.5       7.5        8.6        10.4        12.1   14.2    15.6
        Annual % change                                  7.6       9.5      15.9         14        21.6        15.8   17.4    10.1
   Imports (c.i.f.) ($ bill)                             7.7       8.7       9.8       11.9        14.7        15.5   19.5    20.3
        Annual % change                                  8.7      13.1       13        20.6        12.2        16.3   25.6     4.2
   Current account balance (% of GDP)                    0.3       0.3       0.3        0.9         1.3         1.4    0.9     2.8
   Gross official reserves ($ bill)                      1.6       2.5       2.7        2.9         3.5         5.1    6.2     7.5
        In months of GNFS imports                        2.1       2.9       2.8        2.5         2.7         3.3    3.4     3.6
Public Finance                                                                         percent of GDP
   Total Revenue                                         10.1     10.3      10.2       10.5        10.7        10.4   11.4    11.2
   Total Expenditures                                    14.8     13.7      13.3       13.8        14.1        13.5   15.0    14.8
   Overall budget deficit (excl. grants)                  4.7      3.4       3.1        3.3         3.4         3.1    3.6     3.6
      of which, budget support to 4 SOEs                                                            0.0         0.0    1.7     0.7
   Offbudget financing of 4 SOEs                                                                    0.9         0.9    0.6     0.0
   Budget deficit (incl. offbudget support to SOEs)                                                 4.3         3.9    4.2     3.6
   Domestic financing                                     2.5      1.2       1.8        1.7         2.2         1.9    1.4     1.8
   Public debt                                           52.9     51.1      49.1       47.5        46.9        46.5   44.4    44.8
Money and Credit                                                                 end of year; percent change
   Net domestic assets                                   11.6     12.4      13.4       17.1        19.5        12.6   18.1    17.8
   Private sector                                        14.4     24.4      14.1       16.8        18.1        15.0   24.9    14.6
   Broad money (M2)                                      13.1     15.6      13.8       16.7        19.3        17.1   17.6    19.2
Source: Government of Bangladesh and IMFWorld Bank Joint Debt Sustainability Analysis




5
    See IMF Selected Issues 2007, "Government Revenue Performance and Reform Potential."

                                                                    8
25.      SOE losses and therefore transfers from the budget have declined. The sharp
increases in SOE losses in FY08 were reversed in FY09, partly due to the upward adjustment of
fertilizer, petroleum and CNG prices by the government, but also due to the decline in world price
of urea and crude oil. The government on its part met the objective of reducing losses of the five
largest energy and fertilizer SOEs and consequently the budgetary transfers to them. In meeting
this objective, it was helped by the fall in world price of crude oil (from Tk. 42 per liter to Tk. 23
per liter) and Urea (from Tk. 34 per kg. to Tk. 17 per kg.) by June 2009. In parallel, the
Government did not fully reverse the increased administered prices of petrol and fertilizer,
thereby reducing the losses of the energy and fertilizer SOEs as indicated in the table below
(Table 4).

26.      Much remains to be done to enhance competitiveness of exports. For the past decade
or more, export concentration in one category ­ readymade garments (RMG) ­ has increased.
RMG exports constituted 80 percent of merchandise exports in FY09. While the high and
increasing concentration in FY09 is largely because of the global economic crisis which
disproportionately affected non-RMG exports, other problems remain. Tariffs on imported inputs
that are ineffectively reimbursed through the duty-drawback mechanism reduce competitiveness
of non-RMG exports. The Government passed a new rule to allow bonded (duty-free) facility to
non-RMG exports. However, Customs Bond Commissionerate reports only three export products
have so far availed of this facility: plastic pharmaceutical appliances, processed food, and some
handicrafts. A closer scrutiny of the implementation record suggests that there is little
understanding amongst customs officials about the rationale for introducing this facility, with the
result that numerous applications for the facility remain unattended.

                                Table 4: SOE Losses (percent of GDP)
                                                           FY06    FY07    FY08    FY09
            Net profit/Loss of State-owned Enterprises
            BPC                                             -0.8    -0.6    -0.8    -0.1
            BOGMC(petrobangla)                               0.1    0.1     -0.5    -0.1
            BCIC                                            -0.1    -0.1    -0.8    -0.5
            PDB                                              0.1    0.2     -0.1    -0.2
            Total                                           -0.6    -0.4    -2.3    -0.9
            Memorandum Items
            Brent Crude Oil World Price (Tk/litre)           23      28     31       42
            Petrol Pump Price (Tk/litre)                     42      58     65       87
            Urea World Price (Tk/Kg)                         15      15     21       34
            Urea for Farmers (Tk/Kg)                         6       6       6       12
            Source: Ministry of Finance


27.      A framework for ensuring a responsible budgetary stance was instituted but was
weakened by the removal of quantitative targets. Although the CTG prepared a draft PRBMO
to ensure fiscal discipline by imposing quantitative limits on such items as public borrowing,
suppliers' credits, and contingent liabilities, the Bill that was ratified by the Parliament in 2009
replaced the quantitative caps with qualitative constraints. Therefore the law watered down the
ordinance whose intent was to prevent fiscal excesses. Despite removal of quantitative targets,
overall fiscal discipline was largely maintained. Also on the positive side, a laudable institutional
change under this law is the provision for the revised budget to be placed in the Parliament every
March by the Finance Minister. This is an improvement over the current practice of formulating


                                                     9
a revised budget and placing it in the Parliament as a supplementary budget along with the
proposed budget for the next year in June.

28.     There was much less progress in the goal of improving oversight in public financial
management. There is little progress in the separation of account and audit functions in public
financial management. An action plan has been prepared but no follow-up actions have been
taken so far. There appears to be no buy in of this reform amongst stakeholders in the
Comptroller and Auditor General's office. Nor is there much progress in improving timeliness of
audit reports, which have piled up, creating a backlog. Current practices in accounting and
auditing remain where they were at the start of the TSC operation. Not much has happened to
bridge the gap between country practices and international standards.

29.     There is some progress in the separation of judiciary from the executive but
concerns remain. The decision to move ahead with the separation of judiciary from the
executive was a major step. The government had taken all necessary legal steps to implement the
Supreme Court judgment in Secretary, Ministry of Law vs. Masdar Hossain in November 2007.
There is progress in the appointment of a large number of new judicial magistrates by the Judicial
Services Commission, and the training of this new cadre by the Judicial Training Institute.
However, the Ministry of Law continues to wield significant administrative and financial control
over the subordinate judiciary, because an independent secretariat has yet to be established in the
Supreme Court. Furthermore, there is a substantial threat of the Masdar Hossain reforms being
undermined. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law has recommended that executive
magistrates be given similar powers as judicial magistrates (so that they can take "cognizance" of
cases), undermining the authority of judicial magistrates (and the whole point of the separation
exercise at the subordinate judiciary level).

30.      The newly elected government has reversed some of the changes made by the CTG
to reduce the politicization of judicial appointments. By way of a background, a nine-member
Supreme Judicial Commission (SJC) was formed in early 2008 by ordinance, headed by the Chief
Justice, with the Law Secretary as member secretary. The SJC was designed to provide an
institutionalized process for appointments to the High Court Division of the Supreme Court and
promotions to the Appellate Division, to reduce the extent of politicization in appointments.
However, the continuing role of the Law Ministry in preparing an initial list of nominees for the
Commission's consideration raised some controversy, as did the provision which allowed the
Government to bypass the recommendation of the Commission. The ordinance establishing the
SJC lapsed on 26 February 2009, and the process has reverted to what it was before ­ i.e., judicial
appointments to the High Court Division and promotions to the Appellate Division are made at
the discretion of the executive. The institutionalized process for judicial appointments is no
longer in place.

31.     Progress has been made on the Right to Information Act. The Right to Information
(RTI) Ordinance was promulgated in October 2008. The newly-elected government passed the
RTI Act 2009 (essentially the same Act with some slight amendments) on 29 March 2009. The
Commissioners were appointed in compliance with the statutory deadline of July 1. Rules and
regulations operationalizing the Act have yet to be promulgated and the Commission is waiting to
be staffed and housed in appropriate premises. Nevertheless, the fact that many government
departments now have functioning websites and have complied with a few of the requirements of
suo moto disclosure provisions, constitute small steps towards greater transparency of the public
sector.



                                                10
32.      Some progress was made on improving the business regulatory environment.
Bangladesh regularly came in at the low end of countries in World Bank/IFC's Doing Business
Survey. To address this, the transitional government took the initiative to set up a Regulatory
Reforms Commission (RRC). Another complementary initiative was the setting up of the
Bangladesh Better Business Forum (BBBF), which was headed by the Chief Adviser (Head of
Government), comprising working committees formed with a combination of business leaders
and heads of government agencies. The RRC identified numerous regulations that were either
redundant or counterproductive for business operations. It came up with 135 recommendations in
20 broad areas; of these, 46 have been implemented, nine have been partially implemented and
the rest are under consideration by the elected government.

33.      In retrospect, although the Doing Business indicators (time taken to register a business,
property, export and import) showed some improvements, it would appear that the RRC lacked
the ability to catalyze substantial regulatory reforms. Only stroke-of-pen changes could be
carried through. It was created via executive fiat rather than a presidential ordinance, and there
                                           6
were contradictions in the set up of RRC which rendered it less effective after the transition
period. While an electronic registry of regulations was posted on the Bangladesh government's
Press website, they have not yet been formalized. A majority of the RRC recommendations have
not yet been adopted by government agencies.

34.      The TSC targeted improvement in the performance of two state-owned enterprises
­ the Bangladesh Biman and Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Board (BTTB). After
some resistance, ordinances corporatizing these two government agencies did go through, with
the latter being turned into Bangladesh Telecommunications Company Ltd (BTCL). There is
modest improvement in Biman's performance recently, with losses giving way to a modest
operating profit of some US$10 million, because of improvements in the load factor. The
conversion of Biman from an ailing cash-strapped organization into a viable corporation is still a
long way off. As for BTCL, revenues from its two operating companies ­ BTCL for fixed lines
and Bangladesh Submarine Cable Company ­ have shown improvement because of greater
organizational efficiency achieved, partly through reforms but largely under pressure of
competition from private sector operators in this fast expanding sector. BTCL's lines per
employee increased from 56 in 2006 to 109 in 2007; 120 in 2008 and 135 in 2009. Today BTCL
has 9900 employees, compared to 12700 in 2006, with master roll employees dwindling from
5000 in 2006 to 2950 in 2009.

      2.2         Major factors affecting implementation

35.     Two factors have affected implementation. First, the reforms put in place by the
government during the transition period through the issuance of ordinances had to be ratified by
                                                   7
the successor elected government to become law. As such, the commitment of the elected


6
    The Chairman's status was never properly defined. The Board of Investment was supposed to be the
    secretariat for RRC with its Executive Chairman as member-secretary. This configuration soon became
    less effective as the new government appointed an Executive Chairman with the rank of minister.
7
    The new Parliament has to ratify the ordinances within 30 days after they are presented to it. The
    deadline for ratification was February 29, 2009. Overall, the CTG issued 122 Ordinances ­ a few of
    which were supported by the TSC ­ of which 47 have been adopted by the new elected government
    (annex B). Others have technically lapsed although they could still be tabled in the Parliament with
    some amendments. While examining whether or not ordinances have been ratified by the elected
    government, it would be useful to not focus solely on the number of ordinances ratified. For instance,

                                                   11
government to reforms that were initiated during the transition period was important for the
sustained implementation of reforms agreed under the TSC. The newly-elected government
reversed some of the reforms agreed under the TSC (e.g., SJC), moved slower than anticipated on
some reforms (separating accounting and auditing functions, adopting regulatory reforms
suggested by the RRC), and supported others (RTI, corporatization of SOEs). Second, the
food/fuel crises followed by the global economic crisis have also affected the macroeconomic
outcomes being monitored under the TSC. For example, the anticipated decrease in
concentration in RMG exports did not occur as planned partly due to the global economic crisis
that disproportionately affected non-RMG exports as opposed to "low-end" RMG exports that
help up quite well.

         2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

36.     The TSC contained a well-designed Program Matrix with a mix of qualitative and
quantitative indicators. The quantitative indicators are easily available, collected regularly as
part of macro monitoring by Bank staff, and therefore easily verifiable. The macroeconomic and
trade indicators can be found on the websites of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), Bangladesh Bank
(BB), or Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) and were also kept track of through regular
exchanges between MOF and Bank staff. Indicators on SOE performance are also collected
regularly by Bank Staff. Indicators seeking to measure improvements in the business regulatory
environment are available on the Bank's Doing Business website. Qualitative indicators,
especially in respect of governance/PFM reforms are harder to measure and require a long-term
perspective. All measures in these areas are being closely tracked by Bank staff as part of their
               8
ongoing work.

         2.4      Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

37.      There is still a large unfinished reform agenda. The TSC was preceded by a series of
four multi-sector budget support operations (and two supplementary operations) during 2003-07
that made significant impact on overall macroeconomic management, institutional reforms and
sectoral development. Upon conclusion of the DSC series, the Bank had planned another set of
budget-support operations, in the form of Poverty Reduction Support Credit, starting in FY09.
That program was held up owing to the longer-than-usual tenure of the CTG. In the changed
circumstances, the Bank's strategy was to use the two-year interregnum of a caretaker
government for taking some critical reforms a step further and for this, a one-off TSC was found
to be the expedient option. There remains a large unfinished agenda of medium-to-long-term
issues in the area of food security, tax system, efficiency of safety net programs, governance,
public financial management and agricultural productivity. Building on the success of the DSC
series, based on the government's needs, the next CAS that is currently under preparation could




    some of the lapsed ordinances curtailed civil liberties and gave discretionary powers to certain state
    institutions and as such, made them inappropriate for adoption by an elected Government. In others, the
    CTG ordinance was of inadequate quality, which may have ameliorated one problem but created others.
    Some of the CTG reforms (e.g. local governance) were pushed through with little regard to political
    economy considerations. Thus, an assessment of government's performance must also involve an
    assessment of underlying political economy considerations that would render any elected government
    unlikely to adopt the relevant ordinances under discussion.
8
    A Public Expenditure and Institutional Review was recently completed and a Multi-Donor Trust Fund
    has been set up to provide coordinated support for PFM reforms.

                                                    12
consider including a series of multi-sectoral budget-support operations to address the unfinished
agenda.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

        3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
                Rating: Satisfactory

38.     The TSC set itself clear, relevant and well-defined objectives on the basis of what the
Bank recognized as the CTG's intent. The overriding objectives of the TSC were clear ­
maintaining macroeconomic stability while taking advantage of the window of opportunity to
bring about much-needed institutional reforms. The design of the TSC was simple with clear
indicators to track progress. While designing the credit, Bank staff was cognizant of the fact that
some of the policy and institutional reforms could be reversed by the successor elected
government (see paragraph 94 of the Program Document). Despite this risk, the Bank staff
designed the TSC to support the government's ambitious governance/PFM reforms. In the face
of budgetary pressures, the TSC assisted the CTG to continue with the reforms without having to
cut social expenditures or fuel inflation. Bank staff worked closely with the CTG to fine tune the
program and formulate the operation. Finally, the Bank team depended on the Ministry of
Finance, a counterpart experienced in such operations, to implement the program.

        3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives
                Rating: Satisfactory

Objective 1: Maintaining macroeconomic stability and enhancing growth by improving export
competitiveness.

39.       Macroeconomic stability was maintained, while much remains to be done to
improve competitiveness of exports. GDP grew by 6.2 percent in FY08. The budget deficit
contained at 3.7 percent of GDP despite shocks, with domestic financing accounting for only 1.5
percent of GDP. SOE losses declined from 2.3 percent in FY08 to 0.9 percent of GDP in FY09
partly due to the upward revision of administered prices and due to the fall in global commodity
prices. Public debt to GDP ratio, an important indicator of macroeconomic stability, also
declined falling to 44.8 percent in FY09, down from 46.9 percent in FY06. Export growth
remained strong in FY08 (16 percent) although it declined in FY09 (10 percent) because of the
global recession which disproportionately affected non-RMG exports. This partly explains why
the program's ultimate goal of reducing export concentration by extending bonded warehousing
facilities to non-RMG exports has not yet produced the intended results.

Objective 2: Strengthening institutions for improving public financial management.

40.      Progress on strengthening public financial management was mixed. The Parliament
ratified the Public Money and Budget Management Bill (PMBMB) in 2009, in the quantitative
caps in the draft PRMBO were replaced with qualitative constraints. This transformation
weakens the law whose intent was to prevent fiscal excesses. Despite removal of quantitative
constraints, overall fiscal discipline has been maintained so far. In addition, a laudable
institutional change that has been ushered in under this law is the provision that the revised
budget will be placed in Parliament every March by the Finance Minister. However, there has
been no improvement in quality and timeliness of audit reports so far and the standards of
accounting remain below international standards.


                                                13
Objective 3:     Strengthening institutions of accountability and the business regulatory
environment

41.      Some important achievements were made despite setbacks. There is some progress in
the separation of judiciary from the executive. But there has been a setback in the
institutionalized process of judicial appointments to the High Court and Appellate Division as the
Ordinance forming the Supreme Judicial Commission has lapsed. The RTI has been
institutionalized by way of legislation, the Information Commission constituted, and the
associated rules and regulations are expected to be passed soon. On the business regulatory
environment, the RRC put forward 135 recommendations, of which 46 have been adopted, nine
have been implemented partially and the rest are under consideration.

Objective 4: Improving the performance of State-owned enterprises

42.     There has been improvement in the operational and financial efficiency of Biman
and BTTB. Biman's losses have given way to a modest operating profit of some US$10 million
because of improvements in the load factor. As for BTTB, revenues from its two operating
companies ­ BTCL for fixed lines and Bangladesh Submarine Cable Company for international
gateway services ­ have shown improvement because of greater organizational efficiency
achieved. BTCL's lines per employee increased from 56 in 2006 to 109 in 2007; 120 in 2008 and
135 in 2009. Today BTCL has 9900 employees, compared to 12700 in 2006, with master-roll
employees decreasing from 5000 in 2006 to 2950 in 2009.

        3.3     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

43.     Rating: The overall rating of the program is satisfactory. The TSC set itself clear
objectives and supported reforms that were well aligned with the CTG's priorities. The TSC
helped secure fiscal and macroeconomic stability for the medium-term. The TSC also supported
a subset of institutional and governance reforms that the CTG had embarked on. The Bank
preparedness and responsiveness to the client was satisfactory.

        3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts: Not applicable

        3.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: Not
applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

        Rating: Significant

44.       Sustainability of Reforms: The subsequent trimming of governance reforms by the
elected government appears to be a significant risk. The initial presumption ­ based on past
experience ­ that some critical institutional reforms initiated through ordinances would not be
reversed did not entirely come true. As these ordinances were subject to ratification by the new
Parliament, the new government set up a high-powered committee to review all 122 ordinances (a
few of which were supported by this TSC) and make recommendations to Parliament for
ratification. Under this review process, 47 ordinances were passed by the 9th Parliament within
the mandated timeframe. Others have technically lapsed although some of them could still be



                                               14
tabled in parliament with amendments. It is still early to make a definitive statement on their
         9
adoption.

45.      Economic Risks: TSC program provided budget support at a time when there were signs
of strain on fiscal balances arising from the twin shocks of natural disasters (floods and cyclone
SIDR of 2007) and global commodity price spiral. The global recession followed on the heels of
these shocks. Advanced economies and emerging market economies tried to cope with the global
meltdown with the help of economic stimulus packages. Bangladesh announced a stimulus
package to manage the slowdown in export growth and potential decline in remittances.
Although Bangladesh has weathered the global economic crisis well so far, risks remain.

46.     External shocks: Macroeconomic stability is also periodically threatened by recurring
natural disasters, which global climate change would only exacerbate.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

      5.1           Bank Performance

47.      The TSC was processed in response to the Government's request for budget support.
At a time when the budget was under strain from internal and external shocks, this operation
helped create the necessary fiscal space for undertaking difficult and often contentious
governance reforms and deepening economic reforms. The World Bank Group's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) envisaged a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits being
initiated in FY08 under a new elected government. Because of the changed political situation and
the length of the CTG's tenure, the Bank appropriately judged that a one-off budget support
operation would be the appropriate instrument. The emphasis on governance in the operation was
in line with the objectives of the CAS.

(a)         Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

            Rating: Satisfactory

48.      Bank staff worked closely with the CTG in preparation of the TSC. The TSC
responded to the CTG's request for financial support in a timely manner as they undertook
difficult reforms with far-reaching consequences. By articulating a set of prior actions that were
completed to the satisfaction of the Bank before program effectiveness, the Bank also observed
good practice principles of conditionality. While concerns remained about the sustainability of
some of the reforms supported by the TSC, Bank staff took the window of opportunity that
presented itself to undertake some difficult reforms. This risk taking paid off because despite
some setbacks, progress made on others are important steps forward.

(b) Quality of Supervision

            Rating: Satisfactory




9
    Also refer to footnote 7 for a brief discussion on ratification of ordinances by the elected government.


                                                        15
49.      Although no explicit supervision budget was allocated to the operation, bank staff closely
supervised the implementation of the program. Bank staff provided technical support to the
Government in preparing the Medium Term Budgetary Framework in FY08 and FY09, which
highlighted the vulnerability of the fiscal accounts to the poor revenue performance and large
transfers to the loss making energy and fertilizer SOEs. They are also fully informed of and
doing close monitoring of macroeconomic indicators. In addition, the Bank's governance team
has kept close touch with important institutions of accountability on a regular basis and is fully
aware of the progress or lack thereof in the governance area such as: separation of lower
judiciary from executive, anti-corruption commission, separation of audit and account functions,
and RTI.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

         Rating: Satisfactory

50.     On the basis of the above, the overall Bank performance is judged as satisfactory. First,
the focus on governance in the TSC was in line with the CAS objectives. Second, Bank staff
responded in a timely manner to support the government as it undertook much-needed
governance and economic reforms. Third, while designing the operation, Bank staff fully
recognized the risk that some of the reforms may not be sustainable (see Program Document
pages 22-23). However, staff deemed the risk worth taking because (i) it presented a window of
opportunity to support an ambitious reform agenda being undertaken by the CTG that usually
takes several years to discuss, agree and implement in many IDA countries, and (ii) even if
progress was made only on some fronts supported by the TSC, it still constituted significant steps
forward. Finally, although there was no supervision budget, Bank Staff closely monitored the
implementation of the program.

      5.2 Borrower Performance

         Rating: Satisfactory

51.      The government's performance under the TSC has been impressive in some areas.
The government's macroeconomic management helped maintain macroeconomic stability despite
internal and external shocks. The overall fiscal discipline allowed the government the necessary
fiscal space to put in a place a stimulus package to counter the contractionary effects of the global
economic crisis. The passage of the PMBMB is a significant step forward. There has been some
progress in the separation of judiciary from the executive ­ a move that was kept pending for a
number of years. The RTI has been legislated and the associated rules and regulations are
expected to be in place providing a potentially powerful avenue for enhancing transparency. Of
the 135 recommendations put forward by the RRC to the government, 46 have been implemented
fully, nine have been implemented partially and the rest are under consideration. The Doing
Business indicators related to time taken to register a business, property, imports and exports have
shown improvements. Steps taken by the government to improve the operational and financial
efficiency of Biman and BTTB have yielded results. In addition, the ground has been laid for
strengthening public financial management and tax mobilization.

52.      Despite these achievements, progress on other fronts was slower than anticipated.
While there was no dearth of ownership of reforms by the transition government, the top-down
approach and limited stakeholder participation may have undermined the sustainability of some
of the institutional reforms. While the government took the bold step of separating the judiciary

                                                 16
from the executive, there are moves to hand back substantial judicial powers to executive
magistrates and the SJC was soon dissolved by the elected government. The RRC, another
institutional reform initiative, made modest progress so far. In addition, in the area of public
financial management, although an action plan was prepared for the separation of audit and
account functions not much progress has been made to date. Meanwhile, the gap between
country practices and international accounting standards still remains.

53.      On balance, the government's performance under the TSC has been satisfactory.
This rating is an average of highly satisfactory process at initiation and only moderately
satisfactory performance thereafter. The reform program of the transition government ­
supported in part by the TSC ­ was substantive, ranging from macroeconomic measures, through
structural reforms, to strengthening the judicial system and improving overall transparency and
accountability. This comprehensive reform agenda ­ which takes several years in other IDA
countries ­ was impressive and merits a highly satisfactory rating. On the other hand, slow
progress on some of the agreed reforms, and possible reversals on others by the successor elected
government, warrants a moderately satisfactory rating. On average, therefore, the borrower
performance is assessed as satisfactory. Borrower performance is also deemed satisfactory
because, where reforms were sustained, they represent significant steps forward (RTI,
corporatization of SOEs etc).


6. Lessons Learned

54.     Even during difficult political times (e.g. the 2007 and 2008 transition) and periods
when a transition government is in place, there is a merit for the Bank to maintain
engagement on critical policy and institutional reforms in order to ensure government's
continued attention on critical development issues. The TSC assisted the government's
macroeconomic management and helped maintain macroeconomic stability despite internal and
external shocks. In addition, the overall fiscal discipline helped to make the necessary fiscal
space for a stimulus package to counter the contractionary effects of the global economic crisis.
In the absence of the TSC, the outcomes of economic management would have become quite
uncertain and the newly elected government would have faced a much more difficult start.

55.     The Bank must remain cognizant of risks associated with implementing far-
reaching institutional reforms during the tenure of an unelected government. While
supporting an opportunistic use of the window opened during the transition period and
recognizing the role of CTG in giving traction to some critical reforms, it must also be
acknowledged that, in Bangladesh, many challenging reforms ­ such as privatization,
deregulation and trade openness ­ were initiated and implemented under elected governments.
Evidence shows that these reforms ­ although more difficult and time consuming ­ have been
more sustainable.

56.      While it is understandable that the Bank seized a window of opportunity to support
wide-ranging reforms by the CTG through a stand-alone operation, far-reaching
governance reforms are better supported using a programmatic series of budget support. A
programmatic series gives the Bank an opportunity to engage in continuous dialogue and
slippages/reversals in reforms can be better monitored and addressed in subsequent operations. It
is also important that the programmatic series have a clear strategic focus and be selective in
reform areas to be supported.



                                               17
57.     The Bank must continue to maintain dialogue with the political parties, including
those in opposition, and with other key opinion makers in a more institutionalized manner
to ensure continuous and better assessment of the public support for reforms. Such an
approach, followed during the last transition period, helps to mitigate risks of possible reversals if
and when governments change, and helps in building consensus among the key stakeholders.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

See Annex A.

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable




                                                 18
                                                                                          Annex A

            GOB views on the usefulness of the Transitional Support Credit (TSC)

              Issue                                  Comments of Finance Division
1. How do you asses overall             The broad objective of the Transitional Support Credit
impact of TSC                           (TSC) was mainly to support the policy and institutional
                                        reform program of the Caretaker Government. The impact
                                        of TSC was mostly positive. Some impacts are tangible such
                                        as strengthen and enhance the autonomy of important
                                        institutions of accountability, while others set the ground for
                                        future development for example trade liberalization,
                                        macroeconomic stability, and strengthening public financial
                                        management and tax mobilization. All positive changes,
                                        however, cannot be attributed directly to support received
                                        through TSC.
2. Macro           stability     was    Contraction of the global output was lowest ever in 60 years
threatened by floods, cyclone           but Bangladesh managed to perform better though GDP
SIDR (2007) and global food,            growth slipped to 5.9% in FY09 from 6.2% in FY08 mostly
fertilizer, fuel price shock (2008),    because of externalities and natural calamity
followed by global recession. Did       Overall budget deficit to GDP was 3.4% in FY09 while it
TSC           budget         support    was 5.1% in FY08
restore/ensure fiscal stability?        Outstanding total debt to GDP was 45.1% in FY09 while it
                                        was 46.8% in FY08
                                        Sky rocketing food and fuel price caused severe inflationary
                                        affect in the economy which reached to its peak at 9.9% in
                                        FY08 but stabled at 6.7% in FY09
3. On strengthening Institutions        Public Moneys and Budget Management Act was enacted
of financial management: Public         on 9 July 2009 which will provide legal footings for the
Money and Budget Management             ongoing reforms initiatives in the Public Financial
Act was passed. Any notable             Management
improvements in budget and              MTBF process has been introduced to 20 Ministry/Division
resource management that you            in FY09 that establishes linkage between policy and priority
could mention? Any remaining            of the Government to resources which ultimately ensure
issues?                                 efficiency and effectiveness of public money
                                        12 more Ministries will be brought in the MTBF process in
                                        FY11 and remaining all Ministry/ Division will be brought
                                        in the MTBF process within next two financial years
4. Could you make a few short           The caretaker government formed a 17-menber regulatory
statements on performance of            reforms commission (RRC) on 30 October 2007 for
RRC in facilitating business?           updating the centuries-old rules and regulations of the
                                        country to infuse dynamism into governance, administration
                                        and the economy. The RRC has submitted 135
                                        recommendations to the government for implementation.
                                        Out of which, 46 have been implemented fully, nine
                                        recommendation, partially and another 52 are now under
                                        implementation. The recommendations included those on
                                        the simplification of the investment proposal in the Board of
                                        Investment (BoI), procedure of processing and approval of


                                                19
             Issue                              Comments of Finance Division
                                  foreign private loans, land registration process etc. It also
                                  recommended updating some of the provisions of the Rules
                                  of Business and Secretariat Instructions. Furthermore, it has
                                  proposed simplification of the duty drawback and exemption
                                  system, capital machinery clearance system and bonded
                                  warehouse licensing system.
5. On improving performance of    After becoming a public limited company on 23 July 2007,
SOEs: Your comments on Biman      Biman has trimmed the number of staff and turned its
and BTTB corporatization; what    attention to modernising the fleet. The carrier is in the
is their performance to date?     process of leasing some aircraft for the interim period to re-
                                  start flights to some of the destinations in Asia, Europe and
                                  North America. As a part of the restructuring, the
                                  government put in place a Voluntary Retirement Scheme
                                  (VRS) to reduce the man-equipment ratio (MER). The VRS
                                  provided compensation based on length of service. On 10
                                  March 2008 Biman Management unveiled its plan to
                                  procure eight Next-Generation wide-bodied aircraft from
                                  Boeing Commercial Airplanes. A MoU was signed with
                                  Boeing Commercial Airplanes on 15 March 2008 with
                                  Biman paying US$1.54 million initial payment with the
                                  final agreement signed on 22 April 2008. As per the plan,
                                  four 777-300ER aircraft to be added to the fleet in 2013. If
                                  everything goes as per the plan, Biman should have the first
                                  two aircraft by the end of 2011. Biman has managed the
                                  money for pre-delivery payment of the aircraft from
                                  domestic sources under most favourable terms and
                                  conditions with the help of central bank and initiative of the
                                  local bankers. This would set a new trend of financing of
                                  large commercial ventures in Bangladesh.
                                  BTCL become a limited company on 1 July 2008. Since
                                  then BTCL continuing to diversify its services to remain
                                  competitive in the market. BTCL still remains the largest
                                  land-line telephone services provider and recently has
                                  recently revised its call rate consistent with other operators
                                  in the market. BTCL has initiated an effort to
                                  rationalize/downsize its manpower which will help to turn
                                  BTCL more efficient and competitive.




                                         20
                                       Ordinances ratified as Acts of the 9th Parliament of Bangladesh

The Caretaker Government introduced 122 ordinances, some of which instituted important reforms. In order to continue to have force as law, the Constitution
requires that ordinances be positively adopted by the new Parliament 30 days after they are laid before it (the deadline was 26 February 2009). Alternatively,
even after this constitutional deadline is over, the text of the ordinances could be introduced into Parliament as new bills and passed into law.

Initially, a special committee of `experts' provided recommendations as to which ordinances should be passed into law and which should be allowed to lapse.
Subsequently, a parliamentary committee revised this list and recommended 54 ordinances to be promulgated as laws (highlighted in grey). Of these, 47 have
since been adopted by the 9th Parliament and several more have been tabled in Parliament but have yet to pass.


          ORDINANCES RATIFIED AS ACTS OF PARLIAMENT                                                                 COMMENTS
     (Among 54 recommended for ratification by Special Committee                  )
                                                                                                Cabinet             Bill Placement        Passage as Acts
                                                                                                Approval                                    out of 122
                                                                                                                                            ordinances
                                                                                                                                            (47 till date)
1     The Code of Criminal Procedure (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                           Approved (24/2)           Bill Placed         Bill passed
2     The Code of Criminal Procedure (second amendment), 2009                              Approved                  Bill Placed
3     Bangladesh Biman Corporation (amendment) Ordinance, 2007                             Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (2/3)      Bill Passed (30/3)
4     Bangladesh Flag Vessels Protection (amendment ) Ordinance, 2009                      Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (24/2)     Bill passed
5     The President's (remuneration and privileges) (amendment) Ordinance,                 Approved (24/2)                               Bill passed
      2009

6     Islamic University (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                                       Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (6/7)      Bill passed
7     Islamic University (Second Amendment) Ordinance                                      Approved
8     Human Rights Commission Ordinance, 2007                                              Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (2/3)      Bill passed
9     Right to Information Ordinance, 2008                                                 Approved (24/2)        Bill Placed (25/2)     Bill passed (29/3)
10    Bangladesh Laws (revision and declaration) (amendment) Ordinance, 2008               Approved (24/2)                               Bill passed (24/2)
11    Supreme Court Judges (remuneration and privileges) (amendment)                       Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (2/3)
      Ordinance, 2009
12    Local Government (city corporation) Ordinance, 2009                                  Approved (24/2)                               Passed (5/10)




                                                                                                                                                                 Annex B
13    Local Government (municipality) Ordinance, 2009                                      Approved (24/2)        Bill placed (3/3)      Passed (9/14)
14    Paurashava (Amendment) Ordinance
15    Local Government Commission Ordinance, 2008
16    Local Government (City Corporation) Ordinance, 2008

                                                                             21
17   Chittagong City Corporation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007
18   Dhaka City Corporation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007
19   Khulna City Corporation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007
20   Rajshahi City Corporation (Correction) Ordinance, 2007
21   Sylhet City Corporation (Correction) Ordinance, 2007
22   Barisal City Corporation (Correction) Ordinance, 2007
23   Gram Sarkar (repeal) Ordinance, 2008                                    Approved (24/2)    Bill placed (2/3)   Bill passed
24   National Board of Revenue (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                   Approved (24/2)                        Bill passed
25   Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (amendment) Ordinance, 2009    Approved (24/2)    Bill placed (2/3)   Bill passed (1/4)
26   Consumers' Right Protection Ordinance, 2009                             Approved (24/2)    Bill placed (2/3)   Bill passed (1/4)
27   Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority (Desa) (amendment) Ordinance, 2008   Approved (24/2)       Bill placed      Bill Passed (30/3)
                                                                                                     (25/02)
28   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                      Approved (24/2)                        Bill passed (24/2)
29   Sylhet Metropolitan Police Ordinance, 2009                              Approved (12/2)   Bill placed (3/3)    Bill passed (31/3)
30   Barisal Metropolitan Police Ordinance, 2009                             Approved (12/2)   Bill placed (3/3)    Bill passed (31/3)
31   Speedy Trial Act (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                            Approved (17/2)   Bill Placed (29/3)   Bill passed (11/6)
32   Speedy Trial Act (amendment) Ordinance, 2008
33   Law and Order Breaching Crime (Speedy Trial) (Correction) Ordinance,    Approved
     2007
34   Law and Order Breaching Crime (Speedy Trial) (Correction) Ordinance,
     2008
35   Finance Ordinance, (FY 2007-2008) 2009                                                                         Passed
36   Finance Ordinance, (FY 2008-2009) 2009                                                                         Passed
37   Consolidated Fund (supplementary) Ordinance, 2007                                                              Passed
38   Consolidated Fund (advanced) Ordinance, 2007                                                                   Passed
39   Public Procurement (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                          Approved          Bill Placed (29/3)   Bill Passed (11/6)


40   Padma Multi-purpose Bridge Project (land acquisition) Ordinance, 2009   Approved (20/2)   Bill Placed (29/3)   Bill passed
41   Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Authority (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009                          Bill placed          Bill passed
                                                                                               (06/07)
42   Money Laundering Prevention (amendment) Ordinance, 2007                 Approved (17/2)
43   Money Laundering Prevention Ordinance, 2009                                                                    Bill passed(24/2)


                                                                   22
44   Electoral Rolls Ordinance, 2007                                            Approved (17/2)    Bill placed (22/2)   Bill passed(23/2)
45   The Pesticides (amendment) Ordinance, 2007                                 Approved
46   Income Tax (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                                     Approved (20/2)                         Bill passed (24/2)
47   Income Tax (second amendment) Ordinance, 2007                              Approved (20/2)
48   Income Tax (amendment) Ordinance, 2008                                     Approved (20/2)
49   Income Tax (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2008                              Approved (20/2)                         Bill passed(24/2)
50   National University (amendment) Ordinance, 2007                                                                    Bill passed
51   Election Commission Secretariat Ordinance, 2009                            Approved (17/2)    Bill placed (22/2)   Bill passed(23/2)
52   Bangladesh University of Professionals Ordinance, 2009                     Approved (17/2)    Bill placed (25/2)   Bill passed
53   Anti-terrorism Ordinance, 2009                                             Approved (17/2)                         Bill passed (24/2)
54   Appropriation Ordinance, 2007                                                                                      Bill passed (23/2)
55   Appropriation (supplementary) Ordinance, 2007                                                                      Bill passed (23/2)
56   Appropriation Ordinance, 2008                                                                                      Bill passed (23/2)
57   Appropriation (supplementary) Ordinance, 2008                                                                      Bill passed (23/2)
58   Rangpur University Ordinance, 2009                                         Approved (17/2)    Bill placed (25/2)   Bill passed
59   Representation of the People Order (amendment) Ordinance, 2009             Approved (20/2)                         Bill passed
60   Representation of the People Order (second amendment) Ordinance, 2008
61   Representation of the People Order (third amendment) Ordinance, 2008
62   The Citizenship (amendment) Ordinance, 2009                                Approved (12/2)    Bill placed (19/2)   Bill passed (3/3)
63   Public Money and Budget Management Ordinance, 2009                         Approved           Bill Placed          Bill Passed (6/7)
64   Fertilizer Management (amendment) Ordinance, 2008                          Approved                                Bill passed
65   Members of the Bangladesh Public Service Commission (terms and             Approved (06/03)
     condition of service) (amendment) Ordinance, 2008
66   Public Servants (Marriage with foreign nationals) (amendment) Ordinance,   Approved
     2008
67   Public Servant (dismissal on conviction) (amendment) Ordinance, 2008       Approved
68   Real Estate Development and Management Ordinance, 2008                     Approved
69   Grameen Bank (amendment) Ordinance, 2008                                   Approved 23/2      Bill Placed 23/2
70   Mobile Court Ordinance, 2007                                               Approved (24/2)
71   Upazila Parishad (Correction) Ordinance, 2009                              Approved (24/2)                         Bill Passed
72   Local Government (Upazila Parishad) Ordinance, 2008
73   Government Finance and Budget Management Ordinance, 2008                   Approved (24/2)
74   Emergency Power Ordinance 2007


                                                                    23
75    Emergency Power (Correction) Ordinance, 2007
76    Emergency Power (Repeal) Ordinance, 2008
77    Special Powers (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007
78    Anti-Corruption Commission (Correction) Ordinance, 2007
79    Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007                                 Approved (23/02)   Bill Placed
                                                                                                  (23/02)
80    Members of Parliament (Remuneration and Allowances) (Amendment)          Approved
      Ordinance, 2007
81    Joint Account (Supplementary grants and specification) Ordinance, 2007   Approved
82    Joint Account (Advance grants and specification) Ordinance, 2007         Approved
83    Bar Council (temporary rule) Ordinance 2007
84    Bar Council (Temporary Rules) (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
85    Voter List Ordinance, 2009                                                                                         Passed
86    Bank Company (Correction) Ordinance, 2009
87    Court Reforms Implementation (Auxiliary Rules) (Correction) Ordinance,
      2007
88    EPZ Workers Organization and Industrial Relations (Correction)
      Ordinance, 2007
89    EPZ Workers Organisation and Industrial Relations (Correction)
      Ordinance, 2008
90    Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority (Amendment) Ordinance,
      2008
91    Bangladesh Economic Zone Ordinance, 2008                                  Approved (6/3)
92    Financial Loan Court (Correction) Ordinance, 2007                                              Bill placed
93    Acid Control (Correction) Ordinance
94    Trademark Ordinance, 2009                                                Approved (17/2)    Bill placed (25/2)   Bill passed
95    Muslim Marriages and Divorces (Registration) (Amendment) Ordinance,
      2008
96    Bangladesh Labour (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
97    National Identity Registration Authority Ordinance, 2008
98    Government Attorney Service Ordinance, 2008
99    Government Attorney Service (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
100   Fish Feed and Fodder Ordinance, 2008
101   Contempt of Court Ordinance, 2008

                                                                    24
102   Securities and Exchange (Amendment) Ordinance, 2008
103   Voluntary Disclosure of Information Ordinance, 2008
104   Voluntary Disclosure of Information (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
105   Supreme Judicial Commission (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
106   Supreme Judicial Commission Ordinance, 2008
107   Chartered Secretaries Ordinance, 2008
108   Medical and Dental Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 2008
109   Specification Ordinance, 2008
110   Specification (Auxiliary) Ordinance, 2008
111   Administrative Tribunals (Amendment) Ordinance, 2008
112   Insurance Control Authority Ordinance, 2008
113   Insurance Ordinance, 2008
114   Information and Communications Technology (Amendment) Ordinance,                       Bill passed (6/7)
      2009
115   Bangladesh Telecommunication (Correction) Ordinance, 2008
116   Vested Property Return Ordinance, 2008
117   Private University Ordinance, 2008
118   National Curriculum and Textbook Board (Amendment) Ordinance, 2008
119   Financial Reporting Ordinance, 2008
120   Dhaka Shishu Hospital Ordinance, 2008
121   Bangla Academy Ordinance, 2008
122   Money Loan Court                                                     Approved (17/2)




                                                                25
       Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                                 Title                  Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Vinaya Swaroop                Lead Economist                           SASPF
Sandeep Mahajan               Senior Economist                         SASPF
Zahid Hussain                 Senior Economist                         SASPF
Alma Kanani                   Senior Economist                         SASPF
Zaidi Sattar                  Senior Economist                         SASPF
Ceren Ozer                    Economist                                SASPF
Jose Edward L. Campos         Lead Public Sector Specialist            SASPF
Sakuntala Akmeemana           Senior Public Sector Specialist          SASPF
G.M. Khurshid Alam            Sr Private Sector Development Spec       SASPF
Adriana Jordanova Damianova   Lead Environmental Specialist            ECSS3
Raihan Elahi                  Sr Energy Spec                           SASDE
Md. Iqbal                     Sr Energy Spec                           SASDE
Zafrul Islam                  Lead Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Syed A. Mahmood               Program Manager                          CSABI
Mohinder Mudahar              Consultant                               SASRD
Farria Naeem                  Research Analyst                         SASPF
Tenzin Dolma Norbhu           Senior ICT Policy Specialist             CITPO
Vikram Raghavan               Sr Counsel                               LEGES
Suraiya Zannath               Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Supervision
Sanjay Kathuria               Lead Economist                           SASPF
Lalita Moorty                 Senior Economist                         SASPF
Zahid Hussain                 Senior Economist                         SASPF
Suraiya Zannath               Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Zafrul Islam                  Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                              USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                              13.44                10,030.85
  FY09                                              31.91                     0.00

                              Total:                45.35               193,750.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                                                         0.00
  FY09                                                                         0.00

                              Total:                                           0.00


                                               26
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results

       Not applicable


Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

       Not applicable




                                        27
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              28
Annex 5: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                         29
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents




                                        30
Annex 7: List of persons interviewed

List of Govt officials and private sector leaders interviewed:

    1.  Mr. Zakir Ahmed Khan, Ex-Finance Secretary and Alternate ED, WB
    2.  Dr. M. Tareque, Finance Secretary, MOF
    3.  Mr. Arastoo Khan, Ex-Additional Secretary, MOF; now OSD, Ministry of Establishment
    4.  Mr. Mejbauddin, Addnl Secretary, ERD
    5.  Dr. Akbar Ali Khan, ex-Chairman, Regulatory Reforms Commission
    6.  Dr. Mirza Azizul Islam, Former Adviser, Ministry of Finance
    7.  Mr. Abdul Mazid, Ex-Chairman, NBR
    8.  Dr. Nasiruddin, Chairman, NBR
    9.  Dr. Maruful Islam, Customs Bond Commissioner
    10. Dr. Saadat Husain, Chairman, Public Service Commission
    11. Mr. Ghulam Rahman, Chairman, Anti-Corruption Commission
    12. Mr. Mahbubur Rahman, President, International Chamber of Commerce
    13. Mr. Annisul Huq, President, Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and
        Industry
    14. Mr. Moazzem Hossain, Editor, The Financial Express

List of officials from Multilateral Organizations:

    1.    Syed Akhter Mahmood, Sr. Program Manager, BICF (on RRC)
    2.    Azad Rahman, Program Analyst, BICF (on RRC)
    3.    Zahid Hussain, WB
    4.    Zafrul Islam, WB
    5.    Khurshid Alam, WB
    6.    Sakuntala Akmaneena, WB
    7.    Suraiya Zannath, WB
    8.    Sandeep Mahajan, WB
    9.    Vinaya Swaroop, WB
    10.   Xian Zhu, WB

ICRR Team

    1.  Lalita Moorty, SASEP, Task leader
    2.  Zahid Hussain, SASEP
    3.  Sanjana Zaman, SASEP
    4.  Sakuntala Akmeemana, SASGP
    5.  Suraiya Zannath, SARFM
    6.  M. Khurshid Alam, SASFP
    7.  Tenzin Norbhu, CITPO
    8.  Mehar Akhtar Khan, SASEP
    9. Mildred Gonzalves, SASEP
    10. Zaidi Sattar (Principal author, consultant)


                                                 31
Bangladesh M A P
