Docwment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8796
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1080-WSO)
JUNE 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thidr official duies Its conten  may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency;   Tala (WST)
Rate of Exchanget
At appraisal s June 1980                US$ 1.00 - WST 1.106
At Completion: January 1989             US$ 1.00 = WST 2.04
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOWS         : January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 pound klb) - 0.45 kg
1 acre (ac) - 0.41 ha
1 mile (mi)  - 1.61 km
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                - Asian Development Bank
AIDAB              - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ASAS               - Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme
DAFF               - Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
EEC                - European Economic Community
GOWS               - Government of Western Samoa
IDA                - International Development Association
PCR                - Project Completion Report
SAR                - Staff Appraisal Report
TD                 - Treasury Department
UNDP               - United Nations Development Program
WSTEC              - Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation



TH£ WOULD SANK                     0VIICML tM OLY
Washmton. C 2C433
U.S A
June 2R, 1990
NEKRANUNTO THE EYECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Western Samoa
Atricultural Development II Prolect (Credit 1080-WSO)
Attached, for Information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Western Samoa Agricultural Development II Project
(Credit 1080-WSO)", prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
ThS documlat ha  sfikud  bdbbtin and may beu"dby mcipiets *My in tbe pfonnuxt
of the oki dutis Its contnts may n otwwie be d_csed wthout WoRi8Dnk authorton.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTMRAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1080-WSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE        ..............................                i
BASIC DATA SHEET       .      .......................       ii
IDA EVALUATION SUMMARY AND OVERVIEW       ...       ..       v
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT BY THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK (ADB) - (ATTACHMENT) ......................         1
Map 1: Location ...............- 2
Map 2:  Project Sites .     . .....................   3
BASIC DATA  ...............................           4
I.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION .     . ......................  9
A.  Objectives, Rationale and Scope ........         9
B.  Implementation Arrangements ............       10
II. PROJECT HISTORY              .         .            12
A.  Preparation and Appraisal ..............        12
B.  Implementation.           ..........            12
III. EVALUATION OF IMPLEMENTATION . . ............     16
A.  Project Components (Part A) ............        16
B.  Project Components (Part B) ............       19
C. Project Costs              ...    21
D.  Project Schedule .       ..................*.  21
E. Engagement of Consultants and
Procurement             . .    22
F. Performance of Consultants,
Contractors and Suppliers      .     .       22
G.  Conditions and Covenants        .     .        23
H. Disbursements              . ..   23
I.  Environmental Impact .      ..................  24
J. Project Benefits               . .    24
K. Performance of the Borrower and
Executing Agencies ........ ........         24
L. Performance of the Bank          . .            25
IV.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMKENDATIONS ...........       27
A. Couclusions               . .                   27
B. Recommendations   .       .................     27
APPENDIXES .....................................        31
This document has a restricted di tribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1080-WSO)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Development II Project in Western Samoa, for which Credit 1080-WSO in the
amount of SDR 1.6 million was signed on January 14, 1981. The project was
co-financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Australian
International Assistance Bureau (AIDAB). The original Credit Closing Date
was December 31, 1986; after a one-year extension, the final revised
Closing Date was December 31, 1987.  The account was closed on April 5,
1988 and an undisbursed balance of SDR 767,607 cancelled.
Under an agreement  between the International Development
Association (IDA) and the Asian Development Bank (the project's principal
financier), ADB was responsible for the overall project formulation and
appraisal and for subsequent supervision of implementation.  The PCR was
prepared by staff of the ADB following a project completion mission in
January 1989, following the closing of the ADB loan on December 31, 1988.
The PCR is accompanied by an Evaluation Summary and Overview prepared by
IDA staff.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The PCR plus the Evaluation Summary and Overview by IDA were sent to ADB
and the Borrower for comments by March 30, 1990, but none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CR. 1080-WSO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                  Appraisal    Actual or      Actual as 2
Estimate    Est. Act"al   Appr. Estimate
Project costs (US$ million)                    10.7         7.3                67
IDA Credit amount (SDR million)                 1.6         0.8                50
ADB Loan amount (USS million)                    3.0        1.8                60
Date physical components completed             12131185    12/31/88 Part A
12/31/87 Part B
Proportion completed - WSTEC tree
plantings (ha)         800         812               102
- national research
center                   1          1               100
- extension centers         23         15                65
Economic rate of return (2) (Part A)           19.0         n.a
n.a - not calculated
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATSD AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (IDA CREDIT)
(in US$ million)
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Appraisal estimate
(US$ million)                0.1   0.5   1.0   1.4   1.8   2.0   2.0   2.0
Actual (US$ million)            0.0  0i.0   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0
Actual as 2 of appr. estimate    0      0    10    14    22    30    40    50
Date of final disbursement      4/5/88
Amount Cancelled                US$1.0 million
Principal repaid to date        none



- iii -
PROJECT DATES
Original Plan        Actual
Firet mention in files                       -               4/79
(First presented to IDA)
Negotiations                               10180             10117180
Board approval                             12/80             12/09/80
Signing                                    01/81             01/14/81
Effectiveness                              04114181          09108/81
Closing Date                               12/31186          12/31/87
IBRD STAFF INPUT (Staff Weeks)
Item        PY81  FY82 FY83 FY84 PY85 FY86 FY87 FY89 FY89 FY90  Total
Pre-Appraisal 1/  1.0                                                      1.0
Appraisal 11       1.0                                                     1.0
Negotiations 1/   1.0                                                      1.0
Supervision              0.5  0.8  0.3  0.2  2.8  3.6  1.4  0.0  0.2    9.8
Total              3.0   0.5  0.8  0.3  0.2  2.8  3.6  1.4  0.0  0.2   12.8
1/ Estimated figures
MISSION DATA
The project was appraised and supervised by Asian Development Bank staff. Relevant
data are included on pages vii and viii of the ADB Project Completion Report.



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                    s Government of Western Samoa
Executing agency                            s Part A - Western Samoa Trust Estates
Corporation (WSTEC)
Part B - Department of Agriculture,
Forestry and FisheriLa
Follow-on project:
Name                                      *Multi Project
Loan/credit number                         :Cr. 1651-WSO
Loan/credit amount (US$ million)          s$2.5 million
Date Board approval                         02104186



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WESTEPN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1080-WSO)
IDA EVALUTATION SUMMARY AND OVERVIEW
Introduction
1.       The project was divided  into  two major  components, Part A under the
Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) and Part B under Department of
Agriculture, Forests and Fisheries (DAFFi. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) was
responsible  for  the  overall  project   formulation  and  appraisal,  and  for
subsequent  supervision  of  implementation.       The  ADB  and  the  Australiaa
International  Development  Assistance   Bureau   (AIDAB)   financed  the  WSTEC
component, while IDA financed the fureign exchange portion of the DAFF component
under a parallel cofinancing agreement.
2.       Part A, the WSTEC component  provided assistance for the replanting and
rehabilitation of its coconut and cocoa plantings and pasture areas on the
island of Upolu, improvement and expansion of coffee, coconut stems and soap
processing facilities and the provision of technical assistance. This component
was  intended  to   increase   productivity,   resulting  in  enhanced  domestic
consumption and exports of cocoa, copra, soap products, coconut stems products
and beef.
3.       Part B, the research and extension component, was to provide assistance
to DAFF for improvements to research and extension as followss establishment of
a National Agricultural Extension Center, provisiot of 23 field extension
centers, transport and support facilities, technical assistance for agricultural
research and extension, and fellowships for overseas training. This component
was to establish the basis for improved and diversified agriculture and extend
the resulting benefits to rural smallholders.
Research and Extension Component (Part B)
4.       The component involved  (i)  a  research  subproject, mainly for tree
crops, coupled with (ii) a general agricultural extension subproject. The PCR
concludes that Part B's major objectives were satisfactorily achieved. The
judgement of IDA staff is that the objectives were not sufficiently clearly
established at the outset.    Instead  the  emphasis  was on      providing the
physical means for research and extension, and the link with improved
agricultural productivity was not clear. In IDA's view, progress has not been
fully  satisfactory,  and  important  lessons   need  to  be  drawn  from  the
experience. This finding is consistent with the results of agricultural
sector work in 1989.



- vi -
5.       The  objectives  of  the  research  component  at  appraisal  were to
unidertake research into coffee and to investigate the potential for other
crops such as rubber, palm oil and spices, and to conduct agronomic
investigations on bananas and  other  fruit  crops.    In  the event, a banana
agronomist was  not  recruited  as  planned.    The  tree  crop researcher was
employed, but both ADB and IDA staff at an early stage (1985) became concerned
about a reluctance by DAFF to disseminate research results concerning modern
planting methods  relating  to  hybrid  coconutt  and  Amelonado  cocoa.   The
research had reconfirmed that hybrid coconuts could be an effective shade tree
for cocoa, and that in Western Samoan conditions yields of hybrid coconuts
were much higher than the  local  tall  varieties.   The results also provided
comparative yields of Amelonado and Trinitario cocoa (the common variety in
Samoa), and their resistance to black pod disease. At this time (1985), the
research findings were considered suspect by many Samoans in terms of their
acceptance by farmers, nor were they being adopted at the estate level by
WSTEC. In retrospect, it can be said the problem lay in the lack of an
examination of the relevance of the research findings to the farmers' overall
situation.
6.       The objectives of the extension  component were expressed in terms of
improving quality of agricultural extension generally, and the component
included  physical  facilities  and  staff  training.    At  appraisal several
constraints to coconut productivity were seen, such as senile plantations,
poor cultural techniques, lack of fertilizer, failure to remove old trees, and
failure to collect the crop on time. Declines in cocoa production and yields
were attributed to poor agronomic management, low soil fertility, poor
planting material, uneconomic small blocks and highly unstable prices. The
project design assumed that the revival of smallholder coconuts and cocoa
would depend primarily on efficient extension and improved research. However,
it was not clear in the project design whether the extension service would
have sufficient relevant technology to extend without additional applied
research, nor how non-technical constraints 1I would be overcome to encourage
adoption of improved management procedures.
7.       By December 31, 1986, the IDA Credit's original Closing Date,
only 35 percent of the funds had been disbursed. Research was underway, and
the National Agricultural Extension Center and 10 out of 21 field extension
centers had been completed, and an extension system based on T&V (training and
visit) methodology had been introduced.    IDA  agreed to extend the Credit by
one Year, to December 31, 1987, with certain changes beit,g implemented: (i)
1/ The IDA President's Report (No. P-2904-WSO dated November 17, 1980)
noted that most of the country's agricultural production was under the
jurisdiction of the matai (village leader) system, which was exposed to
increasing stress. A lack of incentive was seen for villagers to invest
money or labor on land improvement.



- vii -
the number of new extension centers was reduced from 21 to 11; (ii) 10
existing  (non-project)  centers  would   be  upgraded;  (iii)  the  extension
adviser's contract would be renewed; and (iv) d new cocoa/coffoe research
specialist would be funded under the Credit pending commencement of activities
of the follow-on  Multi-Project  (Credit  1657-WSO).    Audit reports would be
prepared.
8.       When a request for further extension was instigated by DAFF at
end-1987, there was increasing questioning within IDA and by the Western
Samoan Treasury Department whether there would be merit in a further extension
beyond December 31, 1987, especially as funding was available under Multi-
Project and elsewhere. IDA concluded that only limited further progress had
been made on the extension component, and none on the research component
during the extension year, and the credit was not extended.
9.       Results and Lessons.  The results  of  the research undar the project
represent an important addition to the knowledge base for Samoan agricultural
possibilities. However, the research has not resulted in an extension message
that is being taken up  by  farmers.    In retrospect, the research appears to
have been dominated by technical possibilities, and the needs for improving
extension seen simply as enhanced delivery mechanisms. Three lessons can be
drawn from  this  experiences  (a)  a  full  understanding  of the smallholder
farming system and of the full range of social and economic factors
determining the behavior of farmers is needed to determine the priorities for
research and extension as part of the technology transfer process; (b)
research findings should be field-tested under smallholder conditions; and (c)
a comolex set of problcms, such as that identified before the project, may
call for a more integrated development approach and not only the dissemination
of technical information. Agriculture sector work, currently being undertaken
by IDA for Western Samoa, is attempting to take such a broader perspective in
assessing the opportunities for growth in the sector.
The WSTEC Estates Component (Part A)
10.      This component which  dealt  with  WSTEC  estates  on Upolu was under
implementation at the same time as the Agriculture Development I IDA project
(Credit 951-WSO), which supported development by VSTEC of new estates on
Savai'i. The first project was considerably larger than Part A of the second
project - it provided for planting 1930 ha of tree crops, and was supported by
an IDA  credit  of  US$8.0  million.    The  second  project  provided for new



- vili -
plantings or replantings of 800 ha and was supported by an ADB Special Funds
(soft) loan of llS$3.0 million.    The  project completion report for the first
project, dated June 27, 1989 (Report No. 78r), concluded that none of that
project's main objectives had been achieved, and that WSTEC*s financial
position weild remain unviable, unless a satisfactory alternative Action
Program to that prepared by WSTEC managers (who had since resigned) were
adopted.
11.      In contrast, the PCR for the  second project concludes that the basic
objectives of the WSTEC planting components have been satisfactorily achieved.
However, no attempt Is made to reestimate the ERR, which at appraisal had been
calculated as 19Z. The PCR also notes that as the highest authorities in the
country have articulated plans to minimize and eventually stop political
interference in WSTEC and field a competent management team, there is reason
to believe that the Corporation will be on firmer ground in a few years.
(Fubsequently the Government has agreed with ADB. in connevtion with an
Agricultural Sector Loan, that the majority of WSTEC lands will be leased out
to third parties, and WSTEC estate operations reduced considerably in scope
and most non-estate operations considerably curtailed).
12.      Results and Lessons.    In  the  view  of  IDA staff, the component's
modest objectives under the second project were more appropriate than those of
the Agricultural Development I project, and hence were achievable. However,
as both projects worked throughthe same institutions, the findings and lessons
stated in the PCR for the first project merit repeatings
(i)   although often not of a  size considered large by international
financing standards, all loans to very small countries carry a
much greater risk for the Borrowers because of the relative
orders of magnitude;
(ii)  components  based  on   technological   innovations  should  be
incorporated only after the Bank is satisfied abo'tt their
acceptance  in  the   policy,   socio-economic  and  production
environment;
(iii) the Bank should be careful not to overtax local managerial
resources; and
(iv) when embarking on an institution-building project, which has
extremely important implications for the sector involved, the
Bank should be fully prepared to devote a much larger than
average (in relative terms) supervision effort to it, and to do
so neat only during the project's start-up but throughout
implementation.



- {ox -
Relationships with the Government and ADB
13.        Relationships between IDA and the Treasury Department
were considered satisfactory during the project period. Because
of the concerns with implementation of Part B, the relationship
with DAFF was more difficult. IDA staff did not find the
arrangements under which ADD was responsible for supervising the
project particularly easy. ADB regularly supervised the project on
behalf of itself and IDA. During the early years, IDA staff
devoted virtually no supervision effort to the project. From
1986, however. IDA staff started to visit the country regularly to
more intensively supervise the first Agricultural Development
Project. and during these visits they also briefed themselves on
progress of Part B of the second project. The decisions approving
the first extension of the credit closing date, and against a
second extension, were effectively made on the basis of
independent judgements of IDA staff. In the case of this project,
the ADB-IDA co-financing arrangements for Pacific Island countries
did not result in improved implementation of the project. better
advice to policy makers, and avoidance of duplicative effort. The
reasons for this were different professional judgements on the
part of staff and managers working on the project, and
inadequacies in the coordinating arrangements for such situations.



MAP OF WESTER&IShMOA
SAVAI'I ISLAND
sovrT  P4CIC OCsAN
AA
**   0  S  to  5   Oso NW
~~~~~~~~~~~AObSU^                                          API
MM~~~~~~~~~~O
L a aAaPOL s*^                                       ML r
0urg PACIC OCEANfA"
'       *       ~-      Roe.d                                       _Deo
sommom Lad                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IU4LUA9    f
.~~~~~mm    &,m6e                                                                          so _
.t
meUw~~~~~~~ if
0
0~



- 1 -             *ATTACHMENT
R LSTRICTED
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT BANK                    This Repn h"se oerenar for
th exclusive use of the Bank
PROJECT COMPtEnON REPORT
OF THE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(LOAN NO. 4S-SAM [SF1)
IN
WESTERN SAMOA
Aprl 1989



1.7                                      -I
I  (U
.1
8                                    E
I   /                   -a
S
it"                a
.1  -41                              I
p                   0
-S
'I
.1
I'                                                              I
a            1
a                   U
*                 .-             L                   I          I"
I   I                ii
III                        I
J# I
I gal                              U
1
I
-t     I                          2
..         4
£
a               I
I-j   I-
01
*                                              -7  .-.----
'I
'I           I,
I            I
-.    0
e c-
7. 1 
*                        -..
I                           ,tIi
I1'I
U
U                      .I
I-           -Sa0
£
jJ*t1
-a       -
IduW



-Nw
WESTERN SAMOA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN No. 4851
LOCAT  ON O PROJmEC    IVTI                                       .
AP14k ~ ~    OA FCTR
a4e:.w,., '. .'                                          ~                                            ,    .
}X 0    X    -                               .'NO  -                                              ,.
s~~~ T g_--*# (glyt La ~. ,6 2
.   ,v, (\e                       ~~~~~~~U P O L U                            -Ri
WITUC "amSS uge  NO..O. Su.
1,80I   o                                                                         )?IO



-4-
A. Loan Idenutfication
1. Country                           Independent State of Western Samoa
2. Loan Number                       485-SAH (SF)
3. Project Title                     Agricultural Development
4. Borrower                          Independent State of Western Samoa
5. Executing Agency                  (A) Western Samoa Trust Estates
Corporation WSTEC)
(B) Department of Agriculture,
Forests and Fisheries (DAFF)
6. Amount of Loan                    Part A  - US$3,000,000
Part B - US$2,000,000
B.   Loan Data
1. Appraisal
- Date Started                   23 April 1980
- Date Completed                 13 Hay 1980
2. Loan Negotiations
* Date Started                   15 September 1980
- Date Completed                 116 September 1980
3. Date of Board Approval            27 November 1980
4. Date of Signing of                26 December 1980
Loan Agreement
5. Date of Loan Effectiveness
-  In Loan Agreement             26 March 1981
- Actual                        24 August 1981
- No. of Extensions             Two (2)
6. Closing Dace
-  In Loan Agreement             31 December 1986 for Parts A and B
- Actual                         31 December 1988 for Part A
31 December 1987 for Part B
- No. of Extensions             (A)  Two (2)
(B) One (1)
7. Terms of Loan
- Service charge                 one per cent p.a.
- Maturity                       40 years
- Grace Period                   10 years
8. Terms of Relending                (Applicable to Part A. WSTEC)
-  Interest Rate                9 per cent p.a.
- Maturity                      20 years
- Grace Period                  5 years



-5-
9. Disbursements (lank)
Fort A                1pV B
- Date of XULtial Disbursement25 Aug 1982            17 August 1982
- Date of Final DIsburseMent  15 April 1989          05 April 1988
* Ainmt Disbured (million)  US$1.813                 US$O.969
Amount Cancelled (million)  US$1.187                US$1.031
10.  Local Costs (Financed)          SAV
- AnW     (US million)         0.800
- Perentage oof LoTal Costs   17 per cent
- Percatag of Total Cost       7 per cent
C. Pro1ect i   aM
Appraisal
Estimat.              Actual
(U$$M)               (US$=)
Part_A   Pal B       PartA
.   Praiect Cost
(a) Foreign Exchange Cost          5.0      2.0      1.81 W        1,969
(b) Local CostV                   2.8       1.0      1.867         1.649.
(c) Total Cost                     LA       LAQJ     LAM           Li36
2.   Financing
(a) Foreign Exchange Cost
(i) IJSEC
- ADB                    3.0                1,813
- AIDJA1                 2.0                 .148
(ii) Agric. Research &
Extension Component
-IDA                      -Q                               969
Total                 5.0       2.0      1.961
(b) Local Cost
Mi)  gShE.                    2.8                1.867
(ii)  Government                    .   1.0                    1.649
^/ Loan No. 630: Special Assistance Program, approved by the Bank on
7 July 1983.
k/ Refers only to ADS loan and does not include AIDAB sccounts.
£J/ Excluding local cost financing of US$0.800 million provided under SAP.
{/  Australian International Development Assistance Bureau.



-6-
3.   Cost Breakdown by Comoonent
Appraisal
(US$1000)           (USSOOO)
I. Civil WorksV                                 532                  349
II. EquipmentLV                                1,137                  855
1II. Plantation Supplies for
Coconut Replanting                           103                 417
IV. Consultants                                  478                  192
V. Unallocated                                  75Q                  -
Total                                3,000                1,813
I. Civil Works                                  662.5                244
II. Materials, vehicles,
equipment and spares                         175.0                188
III. Trailning and fellowships                    187.5                 74
IV. Consultants* services                        737.5                289
V. Unallocated                                  237.5                173
2,000.0               968
4.  Protect Schedule
(a) Date of Contract with
consiltants                          July 1981       3 July 83-31 Dec 86
(b) Clvil Works Contract
- Clvil works contract award:        Jan 1981       1982-1987
- Completion of work:                Dec 1981       31 Dec 1988
(c) Eouiomenc and Suuulies Dates
- First procurement:                 April 1981    March 1984
- Last procurement:                  Dec 1981       Oct LQ88
(d) Qther Milestonesf
- Recommendation of USTEC
Board to plant coffee or
pasture under coconut in
preference to cocoa:                              26 Oct 1986
A/  Reallocation of loan proceeds was made and approved by the Bank on
24 August 1987.
k Excluding storage facilities at Fugalea which will be financed out
of the proceeds of AIDAB Grant.
£/  Excluding pumps and pipes which will be financed out of the proceeds
of AIDAB Grant.



-7-
- Deferment of- extensiou of
soap factory component.
-_adlag to it                                        2Ja18
from the Project.                                25 Jan 1986
- Cancellation of coconut
stem processing facilities:                       31 Jan 1986
Reallocation of toan proceeds
from Cat. V to IIr to finance
procurement of fertilizer
for WSTEC:                                        21 June 1987
0. Data on Bank Missions
Type                                                       Specialization
2LAiLMAi            Dates           Members  dGanAaxaV          of Me'ke5-
Fact-Findingk'   3-21 April 79           2         19       Agronomist
Financial Analyst
Appraisal        23-Apr-13 May 80        5        105       Financial Analyst
Agronomist
Economist
Forestry Specialist
Counsel
Inception       4-23 Oct 81k'            2        40        Agronomist
Project Engineer
Review           7-27 June 82k'          1         21       Project Engineer
Follow-up        6-12 Nov 82             1         2        Forestry Specialist
Discussion
Special          11-21 Oct 82            2         15       Control Officer
Disbursement                                                Control Officer
Review           24 Apr-6 May 83         1          8       Project Engineer
Review           5-18 Dec 83k'           2        42        Project Engineer
Sr. Asst., PA
Review           22-28 May 84            1          7       Project Engineer
Review           25 Oct-4 Nov 84         2        20        Sr. Proj. Adm.
Specialist
Sr. Clerk, PA
&/ K1an-days exclude travel time.
h/   Carried out cogether with review missions of other Projects.



Type                                                         Specializatior.
aLJlaai2n           Datea            iesukag   mjzie              of Mlmbers
Special          13 May-4 Jun 85k'        2          5        Sr. Control Officer
Disbursement                                                  Technical Assistant
Review           25 Nov-1. Dec 85k'        2         34       Financial Analyst
Agronomist
Review           26-Nov-10 Dec 86k'        2        30        Agronomist
Economist
Review           25 Apr-S Kay 87k'         2        26        Forestry Specialist
Project Engineer
Assistant, PA
Review           23 Oct-3 Nov 87           1        12        Project Engineer
Review           10 Nov 88                2         16        Project Engineer
Assistant. PA
Project          15-29 Jan 89             3         30        Forestry Specialist
Completion                                                    Sr. Clerk. PA
Report                                                        Financial
Management
Consultant
Total mandays          432
a/   Man-days exclude travel time.
3/   Carried out together with review missions of other Projects.



-9.
I.9 
A.                          -MMUC22s Rai' I p
1.        The two main objectives of the A4Iscultural Development Projecc
were to: () assist the Coverrment in its efforts to increase agricultural
production,  export eannsds and save  foreign  exchange  through a more
efficient utilization of its resources; and (it) provide better income and
employment opportunities in the rural areas of the country. These objectives
were to be achieved through the provision of assistance to the Western Samoa
Trust Estates Corporation (USTEC), a Goverrment-owned agribusiness company
engaged primarily in cepra, cacao, coffee, cattle and soap production, and
assistance to the Department of Agriculture, Forest and Fisheries (DAFF);'
to strengthen its agricultural research and extension capabilities.
2.        The Project, as finalized, comprised two parts. A and B.  Part A.
designed to assist WSTEC, consisted of the following four major components:
(i)  the replanting of 400 ha of senile coconut in one estate and
plavoing of 400 ha of cacao under coconut in four estates;
(it)  the rehabilitation of seven estates (including the estates
where new plantings were to be done) by introducing a
fertilizer application program to existing cacao and coconut
to improve yields, and by providing infrastructure facilities
such as roads, fences, transport, storage sheds, drinking
water, livestock e4uipment and pasture improvement for cattle:
(iii)  the expansion of the existing soap-processing facilities;
replacement of the coffee-processing facilities; improvement
and expansion of the coconut stem utilizacion facilities; and
(iv)  the provision of 108 man-months of consultant services for
institution-building and project implementation.
3.        Part B,  designed  to assist DAFF to improve  its agricultural
research and extension programs, had the following components:
(i)  the establishment of a research facilities network based on
the  country's  major  agro-ecological  regions  and  the
strongthening   of   support   facilities   for   the   crop
experimentation centers on Upolu and Savai'i, as necessary:
(il)  the  establishment  of  a  National  Agriculcural  Extension
Training Center, including training and dormitory facilities
and housing for research and extension personnel at Nu'u:
(iii)  the  construction  of  21  Field  Extension  Centers  and
improve-anets to two existing Field Extension Centers;
(iv)  the provision of transport and other support facilities for
the extension service;
J,/  Formerly the Department of Agriculcure (OWA).



- 10 -
(v) the provision of 120 man-months of consultant services for
strengthening agricultural research and extension; and
(vi) the provision of 135 man-months of fellowships for overseas
training of local research and extension staff.
4.        In the seven WSTEC estates included in the Project, there were
about 2,000 ha of coconut plantations, where many trees had become senile
and unproductive.  A total of 400 ha of the old trees were to be cut and
replaced with selected seedlings of the Samoan tall variety. In addition,
suitable fertilizer was to be applied on about 1,500 ha of younger
plantations to increase their productivity.
5.        About 800 ha of cacao plantations in the seven estates were in need
of rehabilitation. of which 710 ha required fertilizer application and the
rest needed replacement as they were too old and diseased. To enable WSTEC
to increase cacao production, about 400 ha of young (about 10 years old)
coconut plantations were to be interplanted with the new imported Amelonado
variety of cacao, waich was proven to be high-yielding and resistant to black
pad disease (Phytopthera sp.). The estates, where cacao plantations were to
be established, are Vaipapa, Tausagi, Faleata and Casala.
6.        Fertilizer use in the estate plantations was intended to sustain
the productivity of existing coconut and cacao trees. The efficiency of the
workers was sought to be increased by the provision of transport and
equipment, fencing, sheds and drinking water.  Improved facilities in the
soap factory were needed to meet increasing local demand.   The coconut
sawmill rehabilitation ae. Vaitele was included in the Project to utilize the
senile coconut trees which were to be cut and raplaced with new hybrid
varieties. Consultant services were provided to augment local capability to
run WSTEC and help implement the Project.
7.        Part  3  af  the  Project  supported  two  major  activities  viz.
agricultural research and extension service.  Facilities were provided to
enable DAFF researchers to conduct field experiments in the two agro-
ecological zones oi the country, and to establish demonstration plots in crop
experimentation centers on Upolu and Savai'i. The research activities to be
financed were planned to complemenc ongoing agricultural research supported
by bilateral aid agencies. The agricultural extension subcomponent of Part
a was intended to strengthen the capability of DAFF to provide on-farm
services to villages throughout the country. The establishment of extension
centers with adequate facilities at strategic locations, ans provision of
transport for extension officers were expeeted to increase the effectiveness
of the Government's extension service.   A   consultant to formulate and
conduct training programs for farmers was engaged to further enhance the
delivery of farm services.  Provision was also made for training selected
research and extersion staff to improve their skills.
B.   IM2lementatien ArXangemen&s
8.        The executing agency for Part A of the Project was iSTEC which was
also the executing agency of a Bank-financed project approved in 1977 and
completed in 1983.   WSTEC  is still a Government-owned and controlled
agribusiness corporation engaged primarily in coconut, cacao and cattle



- 11 -
production. The Project provided for a projeec manager, to be desigasted
within uSTEC o look after the day-co-day implementation. It was envisaged
that Part A would be implemented over five years when both coconut and cacao
would be planted at the rate of 80 ha per annu.  Fertilizer was to be
-applied regularly during the five-year period.  Almost all equipment and
processing facilities were scheduled to be procured during the first year,
while civil works were due to be completed in the first three years. Fencing
and road construction and upgrading were to have been completed over five
years.
9.        The executing agency for Part B was DAFF.  This Part also was to
be  implemented  over  tive  years.       The  overall  responsibility  for
implementation of the component was given to the Director of Agriculture.
A project manager was to supervise implementation, assisted by a full-time
deputy. The agricultural extension training center and two staff houses at
Nu'u Agricultural Research Station were to be constructed in the first year.
Field extension centers were to be constructed in Upolu and Savaii over five
years. DAFF was required to take early action to recruit consultants.
Selection of trainees was scheduled over the first four years.
10.       Procurement under the Bank loan and under the credit from the
International Development Association (IDA) was to be undertaken by both
WSTEC and DAFF in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Civil
works, including the installation of water supply system and road
construction, were to be done by local contractors engaged by WSTEC or on
force account. Procurement of goods and services financed by the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) -V was to be in accordance
with arrangements between the Government and AIDAB satisfactory to the Bank.
11.       Consultants under the Bank loan were to be engaged on individual
basis in accordance with the Bank's .uidelines        he Use of Consultantg.
Consultants which were financed under the IDA credit were to be engaged also
on individual basis in accordance with arrangements between the Government
and the Bank in consultation with IDA.
12.       For project benefit monitoring, DAFF was required to conduct a
baseline survey to determine the level of adoption of modern farm technology
by smallholders.   Follow-up surveys and case studies were also to be
conducted in project sites of Part B to determine the impact of its
implementation.
1/   Formerly the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB)



- 12 -
11.  P==TCTHISO.
A.   B arntian
l3.       In October 1979, at the request of the Government. the Bank
approved a project preparatory technical assistance (PPTA) in the amount of
US$64,000, to enable the formulation of a project for eight of 14 estates of
WSTEC, not covered by a previous loan. l1 Under this mTA three consultants
were fielded in November 1979. In addition, the Bank engaged two consultants
to examine DAfj's agricultural research and extension services. After the
investigations were completed and the reports finalized, an Appraisal Mission
visited Western Samoa (23 April to 13 May 1980) and appraised an Agricultural
Development Project.
14.       The Bank approved a loan of US$3.0 million to finance part of the
foreign exchange requirement of the rehabilitation work on WSTEC*s seven
estates, V and the establishment of new plantations of coconut and cacao
(Part A of the Project). AIDAB agreed to provide a grant of US$2.0 million
co meet the additional foreign exchange needs of the WSTEC component. IDA
agreed to provide about US$2.0 million to finance the foreign exchange
requirement of DAFF (Part B of the Project). The Bank loan was the second
to Western Samoa's agriculture sector. The loan was declared effective on
24 August 1981, nine months after Bank's approval.
B.   Ismlementation
is.       In October 1981. about two months after the loan became effective,
an Inception Mission visited Western Samoa. The Mission reported that for
Part A no preparacory work had been started and no Project Manager had been
appointed. However, in Part B, the Project Manager had been appointed, a
Project office was already operational, procurement of equipment needed in
research *was under way, the sites for the extension training center and two
field extension centers had been selected, and the selection process for
consultants was already started.
1.   Part A
16.       On 12 August 1982, about o, . full year after the loan became
effective, WSTEC was able to appoint a Project Manager.   There was no
significant accomplishment under this component until the end of the second
year of implementation, except for the completion of one copra-drying shed
in one estate (Tausagi).   By then,  it had been decided to delete the
rehabilitation of the coconut stem utilization facilities at Vaitele from the
Project. WSTEC reported that it was difficult to operate old equipment of
che coconut stem sawmill, and therefore it was considered more beneficial to
I1   In February 1977, the Bank also granted a PPTA for the conduct of a
feasibility study on the rehabilitation of ISTEC estates on Upolu
Island. The study resulted in a loan of US$3.0 million (approved by the
Bank in December 1977) to finance rehabilitation of six estates.
Out of eight considered under the PPTA.



- 13 - -
sell the entire facilities, including the land, to private investors   AIDAB
fusds for the purpose could  then be diverted to more profitab'.; _.xivities.
17.       During the third year of implementation, WSTEC was able to procure
about UJS$343,000 worth of equipment and vehicles, and spend about US$78,000
for the construction of two copra driers in two estates (Casala and
Tafaigata). By mid-1984, about 24 ha of senile coconut had been felled but
no planting of hybrid was done, and 6,000 seedlings were turned over to WSTEC
by DAFF for planting in the 1985 rainy season. The planting of cacao under
coconut in Vaipapa was started in October 1983, and by January 1984, about
34 ha had been  planted.    During  1984  WSTEC  temporarily  discontinued
interplanting cacao wich coconut. 21 The planting of hybrid coconut and cacao
was resumed in 1985, and by the end of the year, 57 ha of hybrid coconut and
140 ha of cacao (consisting of 46 ha under coconut in Vaipapa and 94 ha as
monoculture  in  oether  estates)  were  achieved.         Also  during  1985.
rehabilitation and improvement work had proceeded, with the construction of
the manager's house and renovation of three other scaff houses, 4.8 km of
road upgraded. and 1.6 km of new fencing completed. Rehabilitation work at
the soap factorv was also completed.
18.       In 1986 WSTEC had continued to suffer financial losses due partly
to inefficiencies in its operation, heavy debt servicing, and low copra
prices. As a result, performance in plantations of coconut and cacao had
been affecred and by the original loan closing date of 31 December 1986, only
145 ha of hybrid coconut and 307 ha of cacao were planted under the Project.
Nevertheless. the Bank extended the loan closing dace bv a year, observing
that there were positive signs of improvement in the financial aspects of
WSTEC during the lacter part of the year, and that rehabilitation work in the
seven estates Lad proceeded well and was 70 per cent complete. The foreign
Financial Concroller provided under the loan had a_so set up srstems which
were to monitor closely and direct USTEC's financial affairs.
19.       The first extension of loan closing date (up to 31 December 1987)
enabled WSTEC's foreign advisers (Deputv General Manager. Plantation Field
Manager, Financial Controller), with the help of some local staff, to improve
field performance. By the end of 1987, about 301 ha of hvbrid coconut and
379 ha of cacao were planted. Additional estate rehabilitation work was also
done and about 80 per cent of the equipment requiremenc was provided.  A
total of 64 man-months  of consultant  services were utilized.   Anocher
extension of loan closing date by one Year (up to 31 December 1988) was
requested by WSTEC and approved by the Bank, to facilitate completion of the
plantation targets. By 31 December 1988 a total of about 414 ha of hybrid
coconut (103 per cent of target) and 398 ha of cacao (99 per cent of target)
were achieved.  Some 42.4 km of plantation access roads were upgraded, 10
staff houses, 28 workers' quarters. and 104 km of barbed wire fences were
completed.
20.       It was envisaged under  che Bank loan that  108 man-months of
consultant services in financial management and agronomy would be provided
'    The Mission learned that under pressure from the Chairman, who was then
reported to be planting cacao in his own land, the IJSTEC Board decided
to slow down in cacao planting.



_ 14 -
to WSTEC. The first consultant (Financial Controller) who was fielded in
July 1983, compleced his term on 31 December 1986 (42 man-months). However,
upon expiration of the term of the Bank-financed Consultant, WSTEC sought
grant funds to finance consultants and requested the Australian Government
to provide another financial controller.  In June 1987. a consultant was
provided under the Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme (ASAS).  He worked
at WSTEC up to 31 December 1988 (18 man-months). WSTEC also requested UNDP
assistance for th;. services of other expatriate advisers. UNDP approved the
request. and by the end of the project a total of 71 man-months of foreign
specialist services with U1NDP funding were utilizad.   The  specialists
included the Planzation Field Manager (39 man-months) a Livestock Operations
Manager (5 man-months) and a Deput-r General Manager who later became the
acting General Hanager of WSTEC tZ- nan-months).  For WSTEC, a total of 131
man-months  of  consuitant  services  "'as  utilized  chroughout  project
implementation.
2.   Part a
21.       Within a vear after the loan became effective (August 1981). the
DAFF Pro3ect office had made arrangements for implementation without delay
and liad started cor.struction of the Nacional Agricl'tural Extension Training
Center in Nu'u on :-ae outskirts of Acia.  The Tree  .rop Agronomist had been
fielded and the Extansion Program consultant identified. The sites for five
field extension centers were identified, three in Upolu and two in Savaii.
One vehicle for the Project Manager was procured.
22.-      The Nu'u Zxtension training center was completed by December 1982.
In 1983 the Project Manager resigned and was replaced by another senior staff
at DAFF.  Bv then, two extension centers in Upolu were nearing completion,
and six additional zites of extension centers were identified. Five pick-up
vans and six moto: cl-s were -rocured.  The extension program consultant was
appointed and fielded in .January.1984. Stnce 1984 :he training center was
used for training session of selected DAFF staff b:! the Extension Program
consultant. Durir.g the year two scaff houses. one field laboratory and two
extension  centers  were  'onstrucced,   while   four  others  were  under
construc,icn.   Thre training and fellowshin program was under way with a
candidace for a Master's degree accepced in a uni:ersitv in England, and six
local staff enrolled in the School of Agriculture ar the University of the
South ?acific (IJST, in Alafua.
23.      'Te maj.-.: Droject dcti:itjPs       oi 'i.FF .n  ',85 -md 1986 were the
conscr'iction of i.d extension rnters and scaff training.  Bv the end of
1986 ten field cer.ters had been conscructcd and two old'ones were renovated.
An additional leacr re room at the tltt'u extension training center was also
completed.  The ov, :seas trainee who studied in Engl.nd for a Master's degree
compleced his cour;e.   One trainee completed a diploma course at USP in
December 1986. wh.l'e two others were due ro complete their three-year course
in 1987.  DAFF had requested an extension of the ioan closing date by one
year (up to December 1987). which IDA and the Bank asproved. The extension
was given to facilitate the completion of the -:aining program and the
implementation of  ..e completion of the training anc visit (T&V) approach in
agricultural extension under the g'tidance of the consultant.



- 15 -
24.       Part B was finally closed on 31 December 1987, or one year earlier
than Part A. The component was Lmplemented over six years and four months
withuut major problems. Adequate faeclities and vehicles were provided to
assist in carrying out effective field extension work.  One hundred man-
months of ^,onsultant services in agronomy and agricultural extension were
rendered, and 116 man-months of training in agriculture were undertaken by
selected DAFF staff. Fifteen field extension centers were established in
strategic locations throughout the country and they have been used by the
farmers and extension officers for training and information dissemination.



- l1  E
III. SVIMAT!0N F IMLDenEHENTATTO
A.   Proiect ComDonents (Part A)
1.   Coco2nt Plantations
25.       A substantial number of native coconut trees in WSTEC estates had
grown senile  and their  fruit-bearing ability had waned.    The  Project
envisaged replacement of 400 ha of these plantations with new plantings of
the Samoan tall variety. The felling of old trees and site preparation was
delayed partly because of lack of equipment, and the first planting was done
in 1985 on about 57 ha. The seedlings used were a hybrid of the Red Malayan
dwarf and Rennel tall.  WSTEC decided in favor of the new hybrid which, in
trial planting at the DAFF trial plots  in Upolu,  had shown high nut
production and early fruit-bearing age (four years as against seven years for
the local variety).   The results of the first planting were encouraging.
Mortality in the new plantation was almost nil and no serious diseases were
observed. Growth was fast and flowering occurred in three years.
26.       Despite the slow and late start in planting hybrid coconut, 'WSTEC
was able to accelerate plantation development gradually.  With the efforts
of the tree crop adviser, site preparation work and planting became better
organized and by the end of 1987 a total of 301 ha had been planted. By the
loan closing date (31 December 1988) the Project finallv achieved 414 ha or
14 ha.more than the target.   The plantations were growing well, properly
fenced against grazing cattle, and were almost free from diseases and pests.
There is, however, a need for  systematic and regular weeding to protect the
trees from bushy vegetation.   With the protection and maintenance work
applied on  the plantations, substantial  gains  in copra production are
expected in the next 3-5 years.
2.   Cagao Plantations
27.       Th% cacao planting program was implemented earlier than the hvbrid
coconut planting, since it did not require elaborate site preparation work.
A cacao nursery in Tuinaimato was expanded to produce the seedlings required
bv che program. In Vaipapa estate, 80 ha of voung (10-15 vears old) cooonut
were interplanted with Amelonado variety of cacao by the end of the planting
season in 1986. In four other estates (Lesea. Tuinaimato, Lafi. Zafaigaca)
pLanting had gone on in the old (25-30 vears) cacao areas where manY trees
had already low production, and by 1986 a tocal of 307 ha were planted.
Additional planting in Lesea, Casala, Lafi and Tafaigata increased the cacao
acreage and by the end of 1988, the total cacao pLanting under the Project
reached 398 ha.
28.       The Tree Crop Agronomist/consultant engaged under Part B (DAFF) had
recommended the planting of Amelonado varietv and WSTEC pianted this variety
in Vaipapa. However, after some discussion it was decided that in the other
estates a locally developed variety known as Lafi 7 was to be planted.
Amelonado had the advantage of early pod production (4-5 vears), higher yield
and better acceptability in the export market.  WSTEC argued that Lafi 7 has
bigger beans and an aroma which is accepted locally. No clear-cut policv had
been adopted by the Government or WSTEC, and the estate managers were given
the discretion to plant either of the two varieties. depending on seedling
availabilitv.



- 17 -
29.       The cacao planting under the young coconuts in Vaipapa. as well as
che incerplanting with old cacao trees, was generally satisfactory.
Fertilizer was applied in 1985 and weeding was done regularly. The only
disease observed among young plants was the pink disease, whereby the main
stem dies and exhibits a pinkish color on the outer bark as it rots.  The
disease affects less than 10 per cent of the plantations and is not
considered a serious threat since its spread could be prevented by cutting
and burning the affected plants. Appendix 1 shows the details of the hybrid
coconut and cacao plantations in the estates under the Project.
3.   Estate RaLILeha tation
30.       The seven estates (cotal area 2,578 ha), which were earmarked for
rehabilitation included the estates where the hybrid coconut and the new
cacao plantations were to be established. These estates are already plat-ted
to the local varieties of coconut and cacao of varying ages, and to taro,
banana and coffee, and have currently about 7,000 cartle. The rehabilitation
work had resulted in more effective administration of the estates.   The
managers have now much easier access to the plantations through the upgraded
all-weather roads and with vehicles provided under the Project.   Adequace
water supply. staff houses, and extensive barbed-wire fencing were also
provided. The fencing has kept the cattle herd away from overgrazed pasture
areas and the young plantations. However, the rehabilitation and improvement
work in the estates did not show immediate and spectacular increases in
production of coconut and cacao.  The reasons for this are:   (i) a severe
drought was experienced in Western Samoa in 1987; (ii) the black pod disease
was prevalent in the rainy season and affected almost every fruit-bearing
cacao plant: (iii) fertilizer application was inadequate; and (iv) WSTEC
failed to introduce simple techniques in nut collection and processing
available in other coconut-producing countries (e.g. Philippines, Sri Lanka).
31.       The Proecet envisaged fertilizer application in existing coconut
and cacao plantation in the seven estates. However, AIDAB was unable to meec
fully its commitment to provide adequate funds for fertilizer. At appraisal.
AIDAB agreed to provide US$2.0 million of which about one-chird (US$669,000)
was to be used for the purchase of fertilizer to be used in the plantations
every year over the five-year implementation period.   After repeated request
by WSTEC. one delivezr' of 255 metric tons (valued at US$148,000) was made and
paid for hv AIDAB in August 1986, and this was quickly utilized in a limirei
area of the plantations.
32.       There are simple cechniques well-developed in other councries which
could be used at the WSTEC plantations to increase efficiencv in nut
collection.   One technique involves the use of bamcoo poles with a sharp
hooked knife at the tip to be able to collect mature nuts from the trees,
instead of the present system of just waiting for them to fall. There are
also established techniques to remove the coconut meat from the shell, which
substantially reduce waste.
4.   Soap. Coffee and Coconut Suem Processing Facilities
33.       Funds were to be provided to rehabilitate processing facilities
operated by WSTEC such as the soap factorv, coffee-processing facilities and
coconut stem sawmill.  In the soap factorv. the steam boiler, vacuum pumps
and the soap kettles were repaired and the repair enabled the factorv to



- 18-
operate at a profitable capacity. However, the plan to expand production
capacity did not materialize as it was contingent on the studies to be made
by a marketing consultant. who was never engaged. The WSTEC Board postponed
its decision on the expansion because in 1986 and 1987, the factory could not
have adequate foreign exchange to import its tallow requirement and was thus
operating below capacity.
34.       The coffee-processing equipment was provided, and used at the WSTEC
collection point for coffee beans in Tuinaimato estate. The equipment had
helped improve the quality of the coffee coming from the plantations. The
coconut stem processing plant (sawmill and treatment facilities), which was
planned to be upgradad with AIDAB funds, was :onsidered to be too expensive
to renovate and WSTEC decided to sell the plant to private investors. With
this decision, the upgrading was deleted as part of the Project. Later, the
Government decided against disposal of the plant to private investors and
instead requested the New Zealand Govenment to assist in its upgrading. The
New Zealand Government provided new equipment, but despite the assistance,
the mill has operated only sporadically.
5.   Consultant Services
35.       During Project implementation, USTEC utilized foreign consultants
consisting of Financial Controllers  (60 man-months),  a Plantation Field
Manager (39 man-months), a General Manager who was first engaged as a deputy
(total:  27 man-months), and a Livestock Operations Manager (5 man-months).
Details of the consultant services utilized in Part A and B are shown in
Appendix 2. The first Financial Controller (for 42 man-months and under Bank
finan ing) was able  to formulate -good  internal control and management
information systems. The second Financial Controller (for 18 man-months and
partly funded by the Australian Government) had helped improve financial
plannint and budgetiLg and in the reduction of the huge WSTEC overdrafts with
che commercial banks. However, no trained local staff could take over the
responsibility in implementing them after the financial controller finished
his term.
36.       The Plantation Field Manager and the General Manager (who were both
UNDP-financed) were able to assist successfully in or3anizing co plant hvbrid
coconuts and to repiant cacao. They also attempted to upgrade the skills of
the estate managers, in such aspects as maintenance of good. reliable
production records and maps of the estates, control of personnel movement,
and close monitorir. of field activities. The attempt had modest success and
it was observed that there were only about 2-3 managers who learned to keep
good and up-co-da:a production  records.    Upon the departure of  these
consultants, there was no cadre of young middle-management staff left at
WSTEC who could have taken over the responsibilities.
37.       The Livestock Operations Manager (UNDP-funded) was in the field for
five months in 1988. WSTEC believes chat the time given to this cor.sultant
was too short to enable him to assist in the proper management of the cattle
herd.  He was not able to create a record system for the herds and until
todav, nobody in USTEC could tell the precise number of cattle in its land.
Nor was there any evidence of well-developed pasture areas.  However, the
extensive barbed wire fencing done under t}.e Project had effectively
controlled the movement of the herds and minimized overgrazing.



- 19 -
B.      J** ,1ooents
R1.  Rear-c h__EAc_UUt_tq5
38.       The ag-riculturai research facilities were established at the site
of the experiment station in Nu'u, in the oucskirts of Apia, on Upolu island.
DAFF considers Lhe facilities to be adequace. Hovever, much of the research
work is being conducted by foreign scientists provided under bilateral aid,
as the country lacks trained agricultural scientists. Major research work
is being carried out on cacao and in the concrol of local. pests and diseases
on plantation crops.
2.   B.esir 
39.       The extension training center was suitably located also at Nu'u.
and consists of a lecture hall, dormitory and kitchen facilitias, which can
accommodate 30-40 people. 'he lecture hall had basic training equipment, the
dormitory is well-ventilated and provided with wooden beds, and the kitchen
has basic cooklng facilities.   The whole center has adequate water and
eleccricity supply. Seminars and workshops of one or two week duration have
been held in the Center aL suitable intervals since it was established in
1984.
'.   Field Exten£io  'enter
40.       It was originally envisaged that 21 field centers were to be
established on both Upolu and Savaii Islands.   After a thorough survey
conducted by the Extension Program Adviser, he determined that only 18
centers were needed.  At the end of the Project. DAFF was able to complete
15 centers.  The c.rree ocher centers were not completed in time because of
the prolonged negotiacion for land with the customary owners.  The 15 centers
were properly buil; according co traditional design, had adequate space for
village meetings of farmers,   and provided with some extension materials
(mainly pamphlets on agricultural crops and livestock).
a.   Transpor.. ,-nd Extension Susoort Facilities
41.       DAFF was ^rovided an adequate number of vehicles (i.e. jeeps and
motorcycils) to enaole the Extension Officers (EOs) to visit more often their
respective areas o; tesponsibility.  There was also d two-wav radio svstsm
which enables the Project .Manager to monitor from Apia the activities of the
EOs in rhoe Field. rn addition. DAFF acquired audiovisual equipment. which
were, however. left Inused because of the non-completion of the sound-proof
room required to operate them. It was reported that not enough local funds
were provided by' the Government (Treasury Department) to complete the sound-
proof room.
5.   Consultanz SeCsrvie
42.       Part B ucilized 100 man-months (out of a total of 120 man-months
provided) of consultant services in tree crop agranomy (52 man-months) and
in extenston program (48 man-months). Engagement of the Banana Agronomist
was deferred as DAFF had doubts about the viability of expanding banana
production.   DAFF is of the view that the consultants had rendered very
satisfactory service which had benefitted, and will benefit for a long time.
Weseern Samoan agriculture.    The  Tree  Crop Agronomist  conducted  field



- 20 -
research which led to the introduction of the high-yielding Amelonado variety
of cacao in the country. The Extenaion Pr3gram Adviser promoted the training
and visit (T&V) approach to agriculture extension which has proven to be
effective in disseminating information to farmers or. advances in agriculture.
6.   TrAi         lowsh,
43.       The man-months of overseas training and fellowships allotted rco
DAFF staff totalled 135, of which 116 man-months were ut:Ilized for formal
training in agriculture, and 14 were used for short-term fellowships and
study tours. Following formal training in agriculture, two persons obtained
the Bachelor's degree, one the Diploma, and another the f4astei's qegrsi.
The graduates are now full-time s7aff at DAFF, except for the holder of the
Master's degree who, after a year of serVice, left for a higher paving job
in Australia.   Key DAFF officials participacte  ir. the studv tours and
observed agricultural extension techniques abroad  and attended sesinars on
relevant subijects.  For non-formal training, the Extension Programr Adviser
conducted regular sessions with the EOs along the T&V approach co extension
work.
C.   Prolect Costs
-4,.,    The total cost of tne Project was estimated at iJS$I; 8 mislion ac
appraisal. consisting of US$7.0 million  in foreign exchange  and UJS$3.8
million equivalent in local currency.  Foreign exchange expenditure from che
Bank loan (US$3.0 million) amounted to US$1.81 million, while an amount of
US$148,000 was spent from the funds (USS2.0 million) provided by AIDAB.
Expendicures from the IDA funds (US$2.0 million) amounted to US$0.9'7 million.
The Government spent about US$3.52 million for the entire project. including
taxes and duties on all imported items.  In addition to the original loan,
SAP funds amounting :o US$0.8 million wrere made available co Part A of the
Project starting July 1983 to help meet the local currency requirement in
'983-1985.  About US$0.34 million was spent from the SAI' funds.  A sunmrarv
of the Project costs estimated at appraisal and actually incuirred is
presented in Table i, and details of loan utilization are in Appendix '.



- 21 -
Table 1.  Proiscr Cot
(US$ Miflion)
At       Actual                 Utilization
Type                    ASai}aiaL    CoAL    Difle±erer      bat± g
A           a         (A-. BY       B
oEmign RxchanuL
Bank                            3.000      1.813       L.187      60 per cent
IDA j/                          2.000     0.969       1.031       48 per cent
AIDAB b/                        2.000     0.148       1.852       07 per cent
Subtotal:                7.000      2.930                   38 per cent
Lacal Currency
Bank (under SAP)  £/            0.800      0.339      0.461       42 per cenc
Govt. of Western Samoa
a)  For WSTEC                 2.800     1.867       0.461       67 per cent
b)  For DAFF                  1.000      1.649     (0.649)    165 per cent
Subtotal:                4.600  - 3.855                     84 per cent
TOTAL                   11.60       6.785
A/  International Developmenc Association, which financed Part 3 (Department
of Agriculture. Forests and Fisheries) o.f the Project.
b/   Australian International Development Aid Bureau which was formerly
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
c,/  Loan no. 630:  Special Assistance Program.
D.   Project Schedule
45.       The  loan was approved  in November  1980,  but  did noc become
effective until August 1981 due to the delay in the Government's finalizing
agreements with the co-financiers (IDA, AIDAB). However, even as the loan
became effective, implementation of Part A was further delayed as WSTEC was
unable to appoint a Project Manager and to organize a project management
office. As a result, almost no work was done in the WSTEC estates.under the
Project until the end of 1982. except for some road upgrading and
construction of a copra drier.
46.       At DAFF, a Project Manager was appointed and a Project office
became operational within two months of the loan becomming effective.   In
1982-1984 procurement of vehicle and equipment, building construction and
engagement of consultants were carried out. Construction of field extension
centers was delayed because of prolonged negotiations for the sites.
However, bv the end of 1987. 15 centers had been completed out of the 18
recommended by the Extension Program Adviser. The formal training program



- 22-
at the University level in agriculture started towards the end of 1982 and
went on up to 1987.
47.       Two one-year extensions of the original loan closing date (Dec.
1986) were requested for Part A to enable WSTEC to accomplish the planting
targets for coconut and cacao, for which much preparatory work was done in
1986. For Part B (DAF") a one-year extension was requested to enable the
executing agency to construot more field extension centers for which sites
had been negotiated by 1986. It was also necessary to expand the coverage
of the T&V approach to agricultural extension, and the Extension Program
Adviser had guided the EOs in this task up to che end of 1987.   The
imploemntation schedule for both Part A and B envisaged at appraisal and the
actual izplementation of project activities are shown in Appendix 4.
E.   EngageMt of Consultants and Prgcurement-of Goods ad Seices
48.       There were seven consultants, engaged for the Project,  five of
whom worked with ISTEC, while the two others worked with DAFF. The earliest
to be fielded was the Financial Controller (July 1983) and the Tree Crop
Agronomist (April 1983).  The second Financial Contro!ler was fielded in June
1987 as the first one completed his term in December 1986. The Plantation
Adviser (Field Manager) arrived in October 1985 and rerdered service for more
than three years up to December  1988.   The Extension Program Adviser
(Consultant) was in the field from January 1984 to December 1988.   The
foreign General Manager, who started out as a deputy, was with WSTEC for 27
months (from oecember 1986 to Febtyary 1989). Except for the first FLnancial
Controller who was financed under the Bank loan, the six others were partly
financed by UNDP. The cost of the second Financial Controller was shared by
AIDAB. while that of the General Manager was paid partly by UNDP and partly
by WSTEC. The Consultants were engaged by the Government through procedures
which were approved by the Bank.
49.       Both WSTEC and DAFF had procurement officers  to oversee  the
purchase of equipment vehicles and materials for the Project.   During the
first year of implementation, the Project Manager of Part 8 attended a Bank-
sponsored Project Laplementation seminar in Manila where ne familiari4ed
himself with the procedures for procurement and recrui-ment of consulcants.
There was no serious delay in the procurement of goods and services for the
Project. except for the fertilizer, for which funding from the co-financier
(AIDAB) did not become available until 1985.  The AIDAB representative in
Apia reported that _:.e reason why funds for che fertilizer were not provided
from the start of the project was the lack of confidence in the ability of
WSTEC to utilize the fertilizer.   This stemmed from the well-publicized
financial and management difficulties in WSTEC during the early 1980s.
F.   Performance of Consultants. Contractors, and Surnliers
50.       In  general,   the  consultants  under  the  Project  performed
sacisfactorily. In Part A. the Financial Controllers competentlv discharged
their functions and they set up systems which could benefit WSTEC operations.
However, the serious shortage of trained staff had prevented the sustained
and successful implementation of the systems. The Plantation FLeld Manager
and the General Manager were instrumental in achievtng the replanting targets
for hybrid coconut and cacao.  In Part B. the Tree Crop Agronomist and the
Extension Program Adviser proved to be verv competent. Tle Agronomist was
instrumental in introducing the high-vielding Amelonado variety of cacao in



_23 -
the country. The Extension Adviser helped increase the presence of DAFT in
remote villages through the T&V approach.
S1.       The main contractors of the Project were those for buildings, staff
houses,  fencing,  road upgrading,  and plantation development.   No major
difficulty was encountered by USTEC and DAFF In the utilization of the
services of the contractors. The work done was generally satisfactory, and
the buildings constructed and the roads upgraded met the executing agencies'
specifications.
52.       In vehicll  procurement and the purchase of tools and spare parts.
the Project had co deal with local dealers who provided quotations promptly.
No serious delay was experienced in the procuremenc of vehicles, tools and
spare parts.  Occas2onally. the large overdraft obligation of USTtC with
commercial beaks had caused delay in procurement when the banks did not
approve some applications for letters of credit.
C.   Condi ions and .ovenancs
53.       There were 23 major conditions and covenants under the loan which
the Government and WSTEC had to comply with during projece implementation.
Slxteen covenants had been satisfactorily complied with, and five others were
substantially compl.ed with.   The condition relating to the continued
prov$sion of fertilizer beyond the Project period (Schedule 6, Section 3) is
yet to be complied w'th. The requirement to maintain a separate account for
Part A was not met and instead consolidated accounts of the whole WSTEC were
prepared, audited, and submitted. For Part B, audited accounts for 1981-1986
were submitted. WSTEC had satisfactorily met eight of the covenants. The
covenants requiring tSTEC to maintain a certain financial ratio (current
assets to current liabilities) were not complied with. Details of the status
of compliance with the loan covenants are shown in Appendix 5.
H.   DUW&rsuM2nta
54.       tn Part A, out of a total loan of US$3.0 million, WSTEC was able
to disburse only US$1.81 million (60 per cent). The low disbursement was due
mainly to the USTEC Board's decision not to expand the soap factory until a
marketing study was done (the study never took place), to the inability to
procure replacement equipment and vehicles, and to the low utilization of the
amount allocated for consuleant services under the loan.  onlv 42 man-months
out of a total of 108 man-months budgeted were paid with loan funds. Other
consultant services used in the Project were mainly paid from UNDP gratit
'funds.   The AIDAB grant commitment of about US$2.0 million was hardlv
utilized as there was only one delivery of fertillzer (worth about
US$148,000) to the Project in 1985. the coconut stem sawmill upgrading
component was cancelled and the storage facilities at Fugalea and pumps and
pipes were not provided.
55.       The Bank also provided WSTEC US$0.8 million in 1983 under the SAP
(Loan No. 630), of which only about US$0.34 million was disbursed to pay for
wages. WSTEC was asked why despite its financial difficulties during 1983-
1985. it did not fully utilize the funds provided. The reason given was that
it was difficult to reimburse through the imprest account and thus. WSTEC
had instead used funos provided for local cost in another ongoing externallv
funded Project.



- 24 -
S6.       In Part B, about US$0.97 million (49 per cent) was disbursed out
of che IDA credit of US$2.0 million.   The main reasons  for the low
disburseoment were: (1) only 100 out of 120 man-months of consultant services
wert utilized; (iU) of the planned 21 field extension centers, only 15 were
completed; and (Lii) DAFF did not have time to procure replacement vehicles.
I.   -nviranm.lt1 Imuacr
57.       The Project as a whole did not have any adverse consequence on the
natural environment nor is it expected to have i11 effects on the project
sites.   The felling and removal of senile coconut crees did not do any
appreciable damage to the cOpsoi.. The introduction of extensive fencing had
minimized overgrazing, which  su      w d -we lad to more surface run-off of rain
water and consequently soil erosion. Th.ere was no extensive application of
pesticides and herbicides on the cacao p;anrations, which could have also
killed beneficial insects. and poliuted t.e rivers.
J.   Proiect Benfits
58.       In Part A. the provisioni of vehicles  and equipment and  the
improvementts in roaos. water supply systems. staff houses ant fencing itt tile
WSTEC estates had an impact on the production of copra from existing coconut
plantations. Compared with the 1981 production of 1,389 mt. about 1.690 mc
and 1.850 mc were registered  in 1982 and 1983.  respectively.   in the
following three years (1984-1Q86) production fell to an average of 1,600 mt
amd further down to 1.470 mt in 1987 when the country was hit by a drought.
Despite serious financial oroblems and the abnormal climate. VSTEC's copra
production had increased df.'ing Project implementation and is expected to be
higher in the coming years.    In  the cacao plantations.  however,  the
improvement in facilities had no significanr impact. Cacao production from
four of the seven es:tAes steadily fall from 265 mt in 1981 to 150 mt in 1984
and 94 mt ir. 1987. Thp drastic fall was attribuced to the failure of the
project to apply fertilizer on time to existing cacao plantations.
59.       The long-cerm benefits from Part A of the Project will be the
increase in production from the hybrid coconut and the new cacao plantings.
The new plantations will start bearing fruit in 1991-1992, and at full
production will subszantially augment present yields. The coconuc hybrid is
estimated to vield 2.5 mt of copra per ha per annum compared with 0.83 mt per
ha in the old plantations.  Similarlv the Amelonado variety of cacao will
vield about 1.13 mt of dried beans per h.S. per annum at full maturicv as
against 0.15 mt per ha with the local rariety.
60.       In Part 3, DAFF concluded that the agricultural extension program
launched during proiecc' implementation had been very effective. Benefits of
the project include: (i) the increased awareness of farmers of improved fam
techniques and higher yielding varieties of crops; (ii) becter trained DAFF
staff in agricultural researcn and extension work; and (iii) enhanced
credibility of DAFF and its scaff with farmers.
K.   Performance of the Borrower and E%eetinz Agencies
61.       Despite a shortage of staff ar the Treasury Department tTD). che
igencv representing the Borrower, it had been accively involved in monitoring
progress of project implementation. TO h.ad ex:ended valuable assistance to
Bank missions which reviewed the Pronect  ..nd had supported DAFF's efforts



- 25 -
to obtain adequate budgetary allocations to meet its local currency needs.
Although TD has no seat on the WSTEC Board, it was familiar with the problems
which had affected Part A of the Project.  TD, howev4r, was unable to
influence events at WSTEC as it had no direct hand in formulating actions
-which ceuld have mitigated the financial problems of the corporation.
62.       Since  the  Project  started  in  1981,  WSTEC  had  been  having
difficulties in its operation. A major cause of the difficulties was the
frequent change in the composition of the Board of Directors brought about
by changes in the Government.  Under WSTEC Act 1977, the Chairman of the
Board and its members are appointed by the Head of State on the
recommendation of the Cabinet.  Whenever there was an election and a new
Cablnet was formed, a new Board was appointed. This led to frequent changes
in operating policies and decisions which affected implementation and
resulted in delays in procurement. recruitment of consultants, and other
important aspects of the Project.
63.       The financial situation at WSTEC had remained bad over the years
as a consequence of the frequent changes in the Board and top management.
Drastic reforms had oeen contemplated to improve the situation. But measures
for improvement were always nullifed by policical decisions.  Nevertheless,
after two extensions of the loan closing date, WSTEC was able to achieve the
physical targets in the plantations.   It remains to be seen whether these
plantations could receive regular maintenance and protection, given the
continuing financial and organizational crisis in the corporation. The Bank
had examined the current situation and will be making recommendations to the
Covernment to help WSTEC out of the crisis, and thus enable it to protect the
investments in the new plantations.
64.       DAFF had performed quite satisfactorily in project implementation.
There was no delav in starting the preparatory work.  The Project Manager
was changed towards the end of the second year.   But the change did noc
create difficulties to DAFF in pursuing its tasks.  The delay in constructinc
field extension centers was mainly due to negotiations for the sices.  D.FF
tried to expedite leasing of sites, but the sensitiveness of the land use
issue required prolonged consultations among village chiefs.   There was
difficulty in sending staff for formal university training due to the
shortage of qualified personnel.   However, DAFF was able to select four
tra.nees who, by the end of the Project, satisfactorily completed their
training.
L.   Perf2rmance of the Bank
65.       The Bank has closely monitored the progress of implementation ot
the Project, particularly Part A (WSTEC) which had difficulties in the
initial stages. The Inception Mission was mounted within two months of the
loan becoming effective.   There were ten review missions at an average
interval of eight months between June 1982 to November 1988.  In addition,
there were two special disbursement missions sent by the Controller's
Department.   As early as August 1982, when the first full review was
conducted, the review mission recommended that the Project be listed as a
special attention project in the Bank's Quarterly Report on Loan
Administration.  The recommendation was prompted by the findings that even
after a year of loan effectiveness:   (i) WSTEC had failed to appoint a
General Manager (the previous one had resigned in December 1981) and a
Project Manager. who were to be directlv responsible for implemeptacion: (ii)



- 26 -
no preparatory work had been done to establish rhe new plantacions: (        tii) no
consulcancs had been recruited; and (iv) cliere had been no procurement
contracts awarded.  In 1983 the Bank recognized the serious lack of local
funds and approved the Special Assistance Program loan which provided WSTEC
with US$0.8 million to meet wage payments under the Project.
66.       In 1984 the bank expressed concern to the Government over the
liquidity problem of USTEC which had affected its Project performance. The
concern was shared by other aid agencies who, in November 1984 convened a
high-level meeting in Apia for solving WSTEC's operational problems.  The
Bank's representative to the meeting recommended that:   (i) a separate
plantation adviser be provided by UNDP for UpOLu in order to guide
implementation of the plantation program of the Project; (ii) the WSTEC board
should confine itself to poliev formulation: and (iii) a General Manager of
proven capability oa engaged and given a free hand in running WSTEC's
operation. LINDP provided the plantation adviser for Upolu who was fielded
in October 1985.  In 1986 the Government engaged, also with UtIDP assistance,
the services of a foreign Deputy General Manager (who became General Manager
after 13 months).
0: .      Abouc a vear before the original closing  late 0.1 December *
of the loan. the 8ank sent a review mission to determine whether the slow
progress  of  the Project would warrant cancellation of  the loan *r an
extension of the closing date.  The mission reported that there were signs
of improvement in WSTEC's financial situation as it had given up severai
uinprofitable operations (such as the dairy farm, coconut stem utilization
and vegetable divisions). Substantial preparatorv work had also been done
to establish hvbrid coconut and cacao plantations. The mission recommended
that implementation of the Project be continued, but a reformulation could
he considered by mid-1986 after another performance assessment.
.8.       After a review in December 1986 the Bank realized that given more?t
time.  che  Project  could  achieve  its  plancacion  cargets.    Although  a
reformulation was not deemed necessarv. an extension of loan closing date
was approved, and a reallocation of loan proceeds was effected co provide
funds (about US$630.0) for fertilizer.  In December 1987, upon the request
of WSTEC, another year of extension (up to 31 December 1988) was granced bv
the Bank. and this enabled the executing agencv to complete the new
plantations of coconu; and cacao.  The Bank had kepr a *lose watch on WST.C's
implementation of the Project until the loan was finally closed, and had
assisted in expediting procurement of needed equipment. spare parts and
fertilizer.    There was also constant  follow-up  from  staff on WSTEC's
compliance with the loan covenants.



- 27 -
IV.      CWAS  Aml REO       DTONS
69.       Part A of the project met its physical targets of planting 400 ha
to hybrid coconut and 400 ha to ccao. Rehabilitatior. work in seven estates
was also done and copra production has increased. Improvements were also
achieved in the soap and coffee-processing facilities. The planned expansion
of the soap factory was, however, deferred, pending the determination of the
market prospects for soap.  A total of 131 man-monchs of the consultant
services were utilized to assist VSTEC in project implementation and in
institution-building. Although the project had to be extended twice for two
years, and WSTEC was continually beset by management and financial problems,
the bagic objectives have been satisfactorily achieved. The infrastructure
facilities were put in place to enable the estates to improve their
production efficiency. The new plantations, when properly maintained, will
increase the estates, production capacity, and thus help USTEC out of its
financial difficultifs.  As the highest authorities in the country have
articulated plans to minimize and eventually stop political interference in
WSTEC and field a competent management team, there is reason to believe that
the corporation will be on firmer ground in a few years.
70.       Part B has also satisfactorily achieved its major objectives. The
T&V approach was deemed effective in the transfer of knowledge in agriculture
from DAFF to the farmers. The approach was strengthened by the provision of
field extension centers albeit with modest facilities.  The EOs have also
become more effective with improved mobility and communications.   The
training program has increased the number of competent staff who can
implement research and extension programs.  .The presence of DAFF in the
villages is more pronounced now than before the establishment of the fiald
extension centers.   It is expected that the frequent contacts becween
agricultural technicians and farmers will lead to an increase in farm
productivitv and higher income in the rural areas.
J
B.  8922M  rdae10ns
1.   Praoect-related - Part A
71.       The PCR Mission has formulated recommendations covering the three
major aspects of WSTEC operations:   (a) organization and management:  (b)
management i:atormation ard control system; and (c) financial management.
(a) Organization and Kanagement
72.    . The Government should install without delay a competent top
management team consisting basically of a General Manager. a Financial
Controller and a Plarntation Field Manager. With the appointment of the top
management team, members of the USTEC Board should confine themselves to
formulating policies instead of runing the day-to-day affairs.  There is
also an urgent need to fill up the vacant posts of Chief Internal Auditor and
Financial/Project  Accountant.    A  staff developmene program  should be
formulated and training for middle management, estate managers and
supervisors should be conducted. to improve skills and work attitudes.



- 21 -
(b)  dAWgment Inf*rmati*n and Contro0  Svstem
73.       The PCR Mission examined the management information and contrtc
system and found a number of weaknesses which have contributed to the
financial problems of WSTEC. Before 1988, the corporation had an expenditure
budget which was often exceeded because of weak management control. However,
the foreign Financial Controller succeeded in preparing a budget for 1988
which was carefully monitored and at the end of the year the expenses
exceeded the budget bj only 2 per cenc.
74.       In order co strengthen the manatgement information and control
svstem and thus assist WSTEC in Lmproving, its financial condition, the
following measures are recommended for immediate implementation:
(i)  the budget control system used in 1988 should continue to be
implemented and it should be documented as a manual to guide
future officers on the use of the system:
(ii) personnel to be hired, including casual workers should have
prior approval from the Personnel Manager:
(iii) an identification card system must be instituted to eliminate
fraud in payroll payment of all staff and workers;
(iv) aging schedule of accounts receivable should be as detailed
as practicable to aid an effective collection camRAign;
(v)  che chart of accounts should be revised to include internal
sales and internal purchases;
(vi)  trip tickets and log books should he used to record movement
of motor vehicles. and .a repair aind maintenance card he kelpt
for each vehicle;
(vii)  a  countercheck  system  mtst  be  devised  to  eliminate
misreporting in coconut and copra deliveries; and
(viii)  a System Analyst with good accounting background could be
engaged for a period of three to six months to install .an
effective management information and control system.
(c)  Financial Management
75.       Along  with  organizational  reforms  and  improvement  in  the
information and control systems, a financial restructuring will have to be
done to make WSTEC's operation profitable in three to four years. The steps
recommended to effect a restructuring are as follows:
(i)  closure of the Auckland (New Zealand) marketing office:
kiiV to relleve WSTEC of the heavy interest pavmenc burden, all
loans from the Covernment (abouc WS$17 million in Januarv
1989) should be converted to equity:



- 29 -
(iMi) additional infusion of fresh capital, either from the
Government or through the commercial banks of about
VS$500,000, in order to finance current operations; and
(iv)  Government will provide a loan of WS$1.0 million to WSTEC to
enable it to pay the existing overdraft with a New Zealand
bank.
2.   Proiect RQ1&el d - Part B
(a)  Felad  txonsig n Cn_ ters
I6.       DAFF succeeded in completing the constructLon of 15 out or the 18
centers as recormended by the Extension Program Adviser. Somo centers lack
adequate furnishings for the office and living quarters of the EOs and their
Easilv. and do not have adequate water supply.  In future projects when such
centers are planned, cost estimates should include complete furnishing for
both office and living quarters and siupplv of basic utilities.
(b) Audio-Visual Facilities
77.       One of the most effective tools in agricultural extension is audio
visual aid in the form of printed materials, photos, slides, illustrations.
posters and video presentations.   The project provided some audiovisual
equipment, but they.were never used for want of funds to construct a proper
work area (sound-proof, air-conditioned room) for them. DAFF reported that
finance officials did not consider the conscruction of a sound-proof
audiovisual room essential to agricultural development and therefore,did not
provide ftnds for the purpose.   It is recommended that projects providing
equipmenc, which will require other support facilities to enable their proper
use. muXc consider provision of the ancillarv faci'ttles as well.
3.   Oeneral
(a)  treasury DeUtment in the W_TEC B2.ird
78.       All externally assisted projects in Western Samoa musc involve the
Treasurv Department (TD), which is responsible foc managing the countrvys
financial resources.  However, under the WSTEC Act, no seat in tee WSTEC
Board is assigned to TD.  It is therefore recommended that WSTEC stiould
request Governmenc representation on the WSTEC Board.
(b)  Environmental Baseline Data
79.       The Project did not have any adverse effect on the environment.
In future projects, however, a better assessment of environmental impact
could be made, Lf provisions are made for the collection of environmental
baseline data. The baseline data will help improve evaluation of the effects
(beneficial or adverse) of projects on the environment.



- 30 -
4.   Jpllevun Astions
(a)  TM C MEnt and the n_  Agencies
80.       Both the Government and WSTEC management have recognized the urgent
noed to provide immediate. as well as long-term remedies to the corporation's
problems.   The Government has assured the Bank that the findings and
roco-ndaction. of the PCR Mission will be studied and nppropriate me#surom
adopted, if necessary through legislation. to restore WSTECs profitabil.ry.
WSTEC will concinue to use fortlizer in the old plantations and regularly
maintain the new plantations with its own resources. 'he Covertment has also
assured the BIak that the extension program of DAFF will be adequately
supported in order to continue the transfer of knowledge to the remotest
villages and farms. As funds will allow, DAFF will conduct follow-up surveys
to know the effectiveness of the ELO.
(b) Ths.Jank
81.       In future missions to Western Samoa. discussions should be held
with the officials concerned on the measures taken to improve the financial
and organizational aspects of WSTEC.   The missions should also meet DAFF
officials to discuss the status of agricultural research and extension
programs. The PCR Mission recemands that the Project Performance Audit
Report (lPPAR) Mission be undertaken after two years (in 1991), when the new
plantations would be coming into production. By then the hybrid coconut crop
planted in 1986 would have been in its first year of production.



- 31 -
I        COCOa   AND CACMO PSAN   O                           24
2        CONSULTANT SBUICES                                   25
3       IUTTIZI=ON OF LOUA PROCDS                            26
4        InnPLDUTTIN SCIEDULE                                27
(Projected and Actual)
5        STA&=S OF CCMPLIANCE WITR KEY WN                     30
COVEMMS



_ 32 -
COCONuT   NDCACAO REPLANGTt  AREAS  rN
WSTEC   S          UNE   I          NO. 485
V4ip.         Tummi,to
fEte                         peta   tminI   ts             Casla        Afoata        8 tLaft      tafiglt
*.t hectares                        3M        32S    ta2           161    m 73            552          263
4e=tanted Aron (acK)
1981   cocnwt                                -
camo
1963- c t                        -
Caco                                             -.
1984   cocmu,                           
acao                                            -                    34
1965 -coct                                   v6.8
cacao                                           -                    46          94
1986* coaus                     20                                          68.4
cacao                                         8.8          -                     84      .     40.4
1987- c ct                      20                                         136
caa                       .                  20.8       12                        9.2          30
19%8 . oecluit                                          v                  113.2
caaom                                                    3.2                      3.2           12
,tat pce istatet
cocwout                  40                                        374.4
caco                                         29.6       15.2          80        190.4          82.4
(R.fSSnSW  in text: pap 9, pae. 29)



_ 33 -
,LCWI 110. LlpM tSft43SEU1~  AMIUIL?U3L DO    FL T PUOJt:T
finectiso                                            Um,hs            _      Bate fleia
1.   Finuial Cbnrotrtllerm/                                  42              5 July 1913 to Cee 196
(Jerenida lajasekr)
2.   Finacial canrotterw                                      18             IS Jww 1987 to 31 bee 1968
(Eric Wit isn)
3.   Plantation fieLd  _n Jgarz                               39             Oct 195 to OGee 19J
(Eric bohdmte)
4.   Livestock cpwotiom    _aaes                              5         .   28 Feb 1968 to  "  1968
(Jeffry eax)
S.   Ouputy Gen.  _Wr  for 115VC _4                                          Oee 196  to Feb 1909
(Riderd Cooi)
Totat maenths                               131
Patt a JOAFF
1.   Treo Crop Agronmist                                     52              1 Apr 1983 to Oct 19?
2.   Exewion Program OrgMzer                                 48              1 Jan 1981 to 31 oef  198?
3.   5 mAgrenmist Q
Tout Nunth                                  100
.......... ................. ................... ........................................._ ...
/    a-finmw   .
Funded partty by As   wd patly by    EC.
£/   Faaida by UNGP.
9,   UNP psid for his swvices for 13 swEn  as Oeputy Genera   manr, bwt after
his prOnattion to GenWeal  Nger, UlfP coe_d f        ng and USTEC fuade his sevice.
I/   Recuitmant of this  asittant wes defer   by Gf.
(Referece in text:  pae  10, pe. 35)



- 34 -
LOAN NO - 4A5  DA SF:AGIUTUA  OVLPNENT PROJECT
lmtI2A?ON Ot OAN PROCEEDS5'
(US$)
,PART A (WSTEC)
Original    Reallocated       Actual
Cateeorv             Atlonacdon    oAounrb.    Disbursements    BaLSnc
0)I  Civil Works (exel.        532.000       532,000        349,142        182.858
storage facilities
at Fusnlea)
t02  Equipment (excl.        1,137.000    1,137,000         854.806        282.144
pumps and pipes
and vehicles)
03  Plantation Supplies        103.000       736,000        417.311        318.689
for Coconut
Replancing
04  Consultant                 478,000       478,000        192,266        285,734
05  Unallocated                750 000       117  000                      L.17.000
Total               3,000,000    3.000,000       1.813.525     .1.186.475
_---
In addition. the Bank approved on  7 July 1983 Loan No. 630  (Special
Assistance Program) amounting to US$800,000 to finance local costs of which
about $339.000 ware disbursed.
ReaLlocation approved by the Bank on 'I June L987.
PART B )AFF1
Original
Allocation
(Expressed in    Original   Reallocated   Actual
Category          SDR Equiv.)    Allocation    Amount        Disb.   Balance"
(USS'
't  C;i7il ';orks         530,000       662,500     274.528      244,1.11      3(.41 1
!)7  Materials,           140,000       175.000     210,511      188.140
*Isehlcles & -
Spares
':  Training &            150,000       187.500     178.586       74,308      104.!-
Fellowships
C*. Consultancs'          590,000       737,500      744.1,0     288.656      455.4 ",
Services
Unallocated           190.0Q0       237 500     54141 4      1?3-373      368.055
Total         '.600,000    2.000,000   1,94Q.133        068.587     480.596
tl;e total undisbursed balance tequivalent to SOR 767.6')7 31) was cancelled hv
t.A on c April 1988.
Reference ..n text:  page 12. para.  4



i jl - ,t§{i{l  [Il§g5ft  fI§ggii  [ft if§    | o             n
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
, 1M 11(X5                            1   '1           --511
.,       Ie   .'       t liji-8  'I          lii       ___w_
I s   -
'1   -,,                                            ,,           -1-1



- 36 -                   ar seX                      ..
*a* a
IMPLBEMNTATION SCHEDULE
PART A: WSTEC
.. ERATION              1981    .198        1983   f984  1  I951    19 g    1  198            q
OPIRR2iTI . I | 1'2i3 24 32314 112  33|411 12 34  1 2'3 4! i     3 411
OPIrATIN               *IF -        1-                    --j 
E. TUANIWATO 
FI 'I                         ,                   .  ______                                     -
Puds    f GassC*  '                                                           _.__.pE_._.p....,.,........a.. ___4__.._ j.
I           8    !            |         l;        i        ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I  I
t    f LESEA               .    , :                              I
pmdum  le a& Cosr m-                                                                  e-
~.TAPASOATA
|   Fen exa    Cam      ._i f                                                               ,i
m v-                                  .            -  i _ _       j
ii_d_ I/
i'*mqfi"                                               I                  ,_ .  ___o_________
!      Celhila earnng^ Camu                 -     *   -                                   {if
IV. COCO-STEM f UU  ATaO               .       i
!~~                                                        _     
II. WIU  .VRL                        .L£    _                  -4  
Eailot.as
t ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                   * , ... .    
t  n  O     _                 ,          i ^--<-1            .         j~~~**   It
..~~ I.1:                                                          _        ..___._
SuuIdIaw .                   .11  i  
Veh.,.iclu                                                        I 
IV COWSrTEMC?IZAL                      '
St_ i_ . . o .yi
i'   cenaft                    ._ .01 to             '''tate "fti                                  ,
| E_t | , , . t | ~~~~~~~~~I                                                        3
_             _v _              ''                                                   __  l,I 
I      __            _               .                               *         I         ,I           
lJ Ceia. na |i .o wqs.                                                        ,i ese;



- 37 -
age .1
IMPLEMENJTATION SCHEDULE
PART 8l: RESEARCH AND EXTENSION (DAFF)
1961     £952      1983   1954        198s     1964      1987     1988
OfPlATION            1i2 3 432          w                             1234    12'3i4 112-3
i. CONSULTANT                                i                                                     .
Recrrtaw of CuRWimu            ==
Iappi.ofaumiNmS                                      
blEttt ",,,| _  ._  -.  -             w         -      _,.-*   - -. ---
t _ _ e       .   L      _        _          ._   ____ . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Jmeacnn
Oamlssom tewinwrnn                  .          _   _u.    _        e _ _ -___u__
Sho_rt tn' Itsia             ai        EU    _ ue_!----r_____
i   I   I       iH i        ,.,i
aCIVIL tORX                               
c_ aauni of NO I amete. C . 
Coran aoat FtedWL.b i o0ta    IMT
C_tWLaT<"_o at i hmat mu' u  
Coiuu_o of 21 Fal Eat     w               .      .         _. tM
Uwheh' 2 FieS xumamon Cmtr_
4. VEHICL..
p,oewemnmato Ve%wala
M. MCHINY AND FARM
Farm a u    for est  t enOn Gong J.__
qwU S Nu'u Ef   . Caten Comm
Peg itrn of "aiwn:
Stuisinsit for Pi   aI                                le
.   I   t   I   I   I   l  l   l   I  I   I   .  l ~%*ADt"41 , to"     ,tmd
l  aeaet ot_ _             tit       t  ale. _t _     tl  te _        a ttettm   u
SiOl 0 16sisin  as mwe



_ 38 -
tats taM   LOAN NO. AUS.UN   AC;RrJIQnnAL iELrN  PSOO
Cawgie                                                          Stai C't Qan2
The Barrewer shat  =Nko  avtable, przny as n          ,            Cal ied with.
he fund,  facilities,  services.  tlndB  wO  other                 te Goverut and IWTC both provied tfund,
esowues ihich awe reqired. n addtion to the proceeds              facit es.  t o      nd  otew  res.wes  as
of tie  Low, the IDA Credit VW tth  ADM  Grant for the             repuinr  to compit_I the proced of the Bank
carrying out of the Project id for the ametion and                ltow.
mAinteranceof the Project fdcllities.
section 4.03
(a)  In the carrying aem of the Project, the Borrower              Cmpt ita with.
inatl  ca;e cmneeent anc c.Alifled cianu&ans and                   !n Part A (WSTIC coaponenit 131 men-aenths at
,ontractos accptable to the awer mi the Bani to be                 consultant services in finaciawagemnt tnc
lem ed to an extent   d uMn tem  ai  conditions                    tree crop anaegenit were utilized.  In Par-
satisfactory to the Sorawar and the Benk.                          S (WV -   _ i e) 100 mn-moths of cruttant
sevice  in extenian orWnization ad in tre
-e   agauw were utilifed   The pwerfmm
of the consiuttants ws found be the eatirg
aecies to be satisfatoy.
(bi  -dithout limiting the genertity of the foregotng.             Cutieo with.
*6e Sorwer   uertakes to insre or caue to be insured              EisdI nt  ard  facteities  ioot.e  for tte
Vie goods to be iaported for the Project aid to be                 Project  Of* covered ov insurance.
f;nc  out of the proceeds of the Loan  goinst hazatd
incidut to tne acisition. trnortation ad delivery
vverv'# to the pace of use or  nstallation. and for suh
-nsura.ze any indent,   shot. be paybe in a currency
(.eelv utable to relaoce or repair such gosft.
5"tion 4.oA
(a)    rhe gorr5       sal  mintain  or caom   to  be             C5isied with.
ma1ntaie  recod  aid acest adequatte to identify tse               60th ISTEC ar OAFF kep a rtcwan of esope
goods wnd  ervices fina d out Of the prcesa   of thile             am hehi.les cquaired under the Project.
.,an. to disclose the e ue treof n the Project, co
*cord the progre   of the Project (incoiding the cost
.nereof) nd to refecet In accordnce with conistenty
maintained sound accoting practices the   otion aid
financial condition of the agetifes of the Sorwe
!-etop  ible for carryifg out .f the Projet  nd pe ration
if the Project facilities, or any part thereof.
(b) The Sorrower shllt:
1)  maintain Or caug  to ne Maintained separate             Not comp:ed with.
accounts for the PrcjctI                              No separate accounts wer mintained.
(Ii)   hav  such accounts  ard retated  finacial               Not c0mpt.ed with.
statements  uditec  armsveuly  in accordeance          Audit was ade of project cots as of Deceer
with souNP  auditirg Princotes. by auditors            31, 16t6 bUt auitor COuld not exoress 3
aceeptable to the Soaft                                opinion  beecMs   accounting  of  costs  wa
difficult to verify.
tRZefeersec   in  tet:   ? :ie  l4. pira. '3)



-39 -
Crvnnt                                                Stattas of Cait lcee
(ilM)   furnish to toe Bank, as soan as available but            For_evA    Adited camolidated Finanial
in au  eove   nat later thea six (6) Snts         Y       tset aIs of EISTEC for F 1961-1987 siWhted.
after the ord *o  as"  related  fi   w.r.                lhunited Statm.ne for 198 being preare
cectifled copies ai sudc  audited firen ial              f.r Pt" 3 -1 Audited Ffinaciat Statmts for
statnts  wd the roWt of the auitors                      1981-1986  aiready  sibitted.        Unadi ted
rotating thereto, at i in the Eng ish lqangao;           Finula& Statmts for 1987 w r preparation
an
(iv)   furnish to the Banx sues  other infaewwion               Coe ed with.
cwecninr  such  accsmuts  and   ftrriet
statewnts and the audit thereof as the Sank
sha*l fre time to time reasanably request.
S-etion 4.07
(a) The Borrower shatl furnish or cause to be furnished
to the lank att such reports and inforntion as the Bank
shali reassnably request concerning
(i)  the Loan, and the expanditure of the proceeds            Coeplied with.
amW waintenonce pf th service thereof;
(if)   the goods and services finawced out of the               Complied with.
proceeds of the oaen;
(M113   the Project;                                             Complied with.
(iv)   the administration, operations and ffinewial             Complied with.
condition of tSTIC and OCA and operation of
the Project facilities, or any part thereof;
(b)  Vithout limiting the genaraity of the foregoing,               Partly complied with.
the lorrows? shall furnish or cause to be furnished tn              Instead of quarterly reports, annat reports
the Bank quaterty reports on the carrying out of the                wer regularly submitted.
Project and on the operation ad          _ naagt of the
Project facilities. Such reports shall be sUibtted In
such fore sad in such detail and within such a period as
the Sank shall reasonably request and shell indicate,
amog other things, progress made nd prablem
encountered dering the qunrter under review, step taken
or proposed to be taken to remdty those probl6 and
proposed program of activities ad expewted progress
during the totlowing qurter.
Schedule 6. Settion 2
Proaras for the Rthabilitation of Estate.
The Project Office  for Part A of  the Project,  in                 Substantially complied with.
cens4itatten  with  appropriate  officials  of  WTEC,               A  detailed  list  of  fecilities  nebded  to
including the estate _wis, shalt prepere a detailed                 rehabilitate the estates was prepared and sent
progr.s for the remabilitation of each estate.  US tC               to the Sank.
shatI keep the Bank informed of the details of eac
progra so prepared, and shalt ensure that rehabilitation
of each estate shatl proee d in accordence with the
relevant program.



_ 40 -
Paig 3
Csvenant                                                    Status of CQmtlianca
Scheduie 6-Section 3
5 :xal  of fte tItzets
.sreC Shalt conetinu  the fer ili1w  pror    prsed                To b e tlied with.  The Goveriwnt adWiSTEC
a#dr  frt   A of  the Projecz. be    the perieo  of               ar  ioo-rn for Oxternat assistance to prow ed
,ltenmntatien of the Projects i I iting  its on resawes           their fertiti2er nre.
fer this purpose. To tbe extrt that USTIC is uWA* to
fnance the continustion of 1,& fertilizer program. the
doarer shtik see  assistarce frm other resm           or
.itizlke  the Borrow's  wn resources, to ensure the
availability of suffcient solties of fertilizer for
this perpose.
%beoule 6. Section 4
-o.t,cn from Cy.srans Outiles
,Pw dorrower shail taxe the  ecessarv stePst to ensure           Coptieed with.
'at 3oods inported into Istern samoa by USIEC for the            All goe  ipaprted by USTEC under the Project
u'uoms  of the Project snatl  be execgted from  the               wer exampted from custom duties and taxes.
waiuent of custm  daties.
.rdute 4. Scftiof 6
.t3if 7^ainina and Feltowrinj
Xe gorrower shail infem  tro iUank of the nams of ita             Substantiatlycoatieddwith. PAFFhasutitized
* ift  selected  for  training  through  the  feltownip          ¶116 aiwnths  for training.   However, no
: cr  .    iuder  the  Project,  the  institution   or          bonding arranfemet was enforced.
nstit,Jtions where the training is to be Carried out and
-  ur:t; tn and expected Content of such training. The
.:i.e,r snoat ensure that eacz recipient of a felloship
: i4'ounter the Project snattl enter into a bad to
;.'- 'or a soecif ied period af timo after the conclusion
cr tne training.
1chiOule 6. Section r
9-t%nS2in -e
r aorrowr shatl take all ;teps nwecssary to recruit             Collied with.
sno retain  uatified extension workers, inctucing the             OAFF has recruited and trained staff who are
c.assification review aen ugrading of the position of             now woking as agricultur l extulion officers.
extension ervice persornet in DOA. By 31 Oecie_r 1980
or tuch other date s the Beak my specify. the Sorrower
:      t   Frepare and sit to the Sank for ccatts  a
; prehneive report giving details of the steps to be
taken and carry out such steps Prauptly after receipt of
;Manks cents.
'e-nedule 6. Section 8
'Jse of Research facilities
the Sorromw  shatt ensure that the research facitities            CauWiedwith. The research lfcititieseat u'u
being established urder the oecant :DA financed Project           Centrat Agricultural Experimewnt Station have
,tuat Ibe avatilabte to DOA for ise is crop experimentation       been  sde available to DAFF researchers.
;enters uwder Part B of the P"ject.



- 41 -
e*4
covenant                                                            Status of Caumlisnem
ScheduI 6. Section 9
ration  Wd  aintenr e of 3rtct failities
the Borrower slal ensure that the Project facilities are            Camptied with.
propwrty opwrted and adsqutety Maintained. aI for this
purpw, shlt I mke admi*te ard timaty provision of
necessary foreign excmh_e for the purhae  of matewisal
and spare parts requtrd for the poer opation ard
mlintenef  of all equipeet ard  facilities of the
Project.
Scnedule 6. Section 10
4nitoriM and Evaluation of 'roject 8enetits
ODA shatl be responsible for imnitoring and evaluating              Compield with.
the benefits o  Part 8 of the Aroject. For this purpse.             In Nareh 1986 the OAFF Economic Analysis ad
tne econoimc Anotysis and Ptanning Oivisien of the oC               Plaming Unit copleted an Evalustion of the
shalt select samples, prepare  "uestiennsire aid coll et            Aglieulturat Extension Progr, which assesed
data. A bleat in savm e sWrvey to doteminte the level of            the aesranase  and aceeptanme by ftarsn   of the
adaption of Modern form technotogy by saltlholdwrs shatt            retm_dd  practices  of  th   Agriculture
be conducted initially and ftoltov.i  surveys and cse               Extension Oivision.
studies shalt be instituted to determine the haopet of
Part S of the Project.
Secxton 2 02
.iSTEC shall make availabte.  promptly as needed,  the              Substantially coqplied with by the Goverrment
funds, faci titIes, services and other resources which re          awd USTEC.  In 1983-1984, there was a shortage
required, in addition to the pro"eedt of the Loon Nad the           of local funds for the Project.
AOAS Grant, for the carrying out of the Pro;ect and for
the operation and maintenance of the Project faciltites.
Section 2.04
WSTEC shail carry out the Project in accordance  With               Complied with.
plans, design standards, specifications, work schedules             The staff houses and workers  quarters were
and construction muthods acceotable to the  ank. ISTEC              buitt according to specifications agrees upon
shall furnish or cause to be furnishej to the Sank,                 between WSTEC and the ank.
prarptly after their preparation, stich plans, design
standards, specifications and work scheuates, and any
materisl indifications ubsequently msde therein, in such
detail as the Sank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.Z6
WSTUC shatl maintain or cause to be  aintained reeorCs              Coaptied with.   WSTEC Maintains a cemplete
and accounts adoquate to idfcitfy the goodo  ffnu sl owt            record of equipmant procured for the Project.
of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the uSe thf eof            However, records of cosn were Included in the
in the Project, to record the progress of the Project               over-att accounts of the corporation.
(includino the cost thereof) ano to reflect in accordance
with consistentty Maintained sound sacounting practices
its operations and finanecil condition.



_42-                                         A x5
a   5
Covenant                                              Status of Cut ne
Sgection 2.08
(a) WiTIC shait furnish go tFe dank sit such reports anOd          Complied with.
flforsmtian  afs  tho   ar*s  snaL  reasonabty  reqist
soncerning (i) the Lc4n aw  the expendittre of the
procees thereof; (ii) ttse gods  W services finwed
2ut of  uh  proced;  tiIi) the Project;  t v) the
administration. opations a&.-  ftinoncict ctoitilo  of
t!EC; and Cv) any other mtters retating to the puroses
of the Loan.
(o%  Jitnout timitirq  the  Werneratity of the foregoing.          Su.stsntiatty cepiied with.
u3TUC  hal; furnisn or cause io be furnisnad to the ank              STEC  stmaitted  asviut   reports  regutartv
cuarterty reports on the exec;.t:on of the Project and the          throughout the inptementation oeriod.
.oerzltion arc-inagint ot t-t 2roect faciiites. Such
icots snati  be sum ctea   . suOh tcrc 3rc in such
oetai!  &d  .':k   such  a  e iod as nte Bard  shatl
-:sonsoty ropem c an st shatl vcicat* atinn other thing.
iregreM   de ant mi hitaasxe*uterea during the *aarter
review. £tepi taken or :roposad to be taken to
-t'4y these erczme am prorsd progrea  of activities
'*d .'act:ed p-g'esA o.rlrg ce  *ot lowing qtarter.
-*  -    aii t'r cmvI*t-ir Ctf the Prij-ct. but in my          Not coptied with.
not  :ater tann siax (6) .ntns after the closing             However during the visit of the PCR Nission
* .,d, w'thdrawafs frtz tat LOdn AccOitnt or suca later         USTEC provided alt  information necesary to
iitq ss cne ,aik Jay agree  .-: :'v pWrpome, UStaC shalt           enieble the Mission to prepare a report or the
- icar  awd tn rn-U  to the L m   a reeort, in such form           performance of the exeCuting agency.
.';:  js . as tha Grx ihatta reasont0l' request,
;ee*:~jgt    e na  initiat oieration of the Proj%et.
z.i ;:.t 'm vie tteneits derivtd an  to be derived from
- rfaertance ov USTEC  m1 its cebi8t1i.i uraw
a;   *3ect sgreeart, and tie accomplisr tens of the
* -s" of the -*!n.
St2C  1,hitl   atlre s, dccounts  anm  financial             Co ptied with.
stT-tts  (bamac   sheet, etateer:  of  "'cow  and                 IWSTIC suitted audited financiat statements
cApesei and rAatted statintt) audited vxaetly,  in                 for 1981-1987. Audited accounts for 1988 are
xcordence  with sO&md auditing prinriptes, by auditors             expected by Juty 1989.
!05:- k't to rne iat*,  nd Shalt. prantty aeter their
: z- - -.%i out in .mny event
n:t later t'ha  six (6) months after tne cio.e of fiscat
-t '- wiici"n  thy retate, turnisr  co the Bank (a)
^^'---e"rI zopies of such audi co tin4nCtat statements and
i) Va report cf the auditors relating stereto, all in
tne i"lish lguage.
eoctien 2 10
w; EC sentit c'w-le the Sank's r'.presentatives to inspect         Coapied with.
-e project, tne 2    financea out of the -roceeds of              3a   missions were attowed to visit project
--e Loan. *It  rtner plants, s;-s. wtorsk. paoert,es vid           sitea and to  inspect relevant recoris and
-triient if       4C  via any relevant r.-crds and                 docUmats.
Icunts .



- 43 -
Appendix
Ccwr,int                                            Stat u  of Cemlianc 7
(b)  YStUC shall at all tinr.. corsrit its buinue   in            Partty co _  ied with.
accordswe  with  sound aestnistrative, firaneiol  and             VIth tke help of foreign consuttants, WSTEC
agricuturd  prectices amc  Lodar the supervision of               exwrted efforts to run the  e ra tion in accerd
competent w'd etperid     m innamennt and pef5sol.                with  scaud prectices.  ho wevr, interference
by politicians in its affairs affeted its
effiencfy an prefitable eperation.
Section 2-'2
Except as the lank and the k;-rower my otherwise agree,           Complied with.
USTEC shatl mmintain a rat s of tne consolidated debt             Raties as fotliows:
equity of not higner than 70.30.                                  19S * 59s41
1987   67:33
19CE - Oata not avail able
seetion 2 13
Except as the Snk and tne gorroewr gwy othewise agree,              ot complied with.
USTEC shall mintain a ratio of its currant asts to its            1936 - 0.23:1
currant liabalities, inctuding current instaltmtm  of             1987 - 0.14:1
wot, of at tessL 1.3:1.                                           198Y - DatS not avelable.
Section 2.14
Excapt as the Bank MaV otnelise agree. USTEC shal not             Compied with.
(a) sell, les8e or otherwise dispose of any of its asts
which snatl be rewired for tie efficient carrying an of
its opa tions or the disposa& of which my prejudice its
ability satisfactorily to perform any of Its obtligatiom
undr  this Project Agrent; or (b) estabilsh or acquire
an snintdiary.
Section 2.t5
Exsept as the Cank My otherv:se agree, ISTVC sfall ampy           Compli ed vwith.
the poceedt of the Loan to the finaing of ep.dtures
in the Project in accordane wit" the proisions of the
LOWn Agreanm  an  thisc -rciec: Aqreamnt, and Shell
ensure that att goods and  ervice  finwred out of such
procees are used exciusivety in the carrying out of the
ProJect.



