Document of             FlE COPY
The World Bank    FILCOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2904-WSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
WESTERN SAMOA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 17, 1980
This document has a restrieted dsribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diseosed without Werld Bnk auooriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =  WS$0.9139
WS$1        -  US$1.0823
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this
report is the short-term average at the time of appraisal.
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 acre             =  0.405 hectares
1 gallon           =  4.546 litres
1 mile             =  1.609 kilometres
1 pound            -  0.454 kilograms
1 ton (2,240 lbs) =  1,008 kilograms
1 board foot       -  1 piece of timber 12 inches
by 12 inches by 1 inch
ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB    -  Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
DBWS    -  Development Bank of Western Samoa
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture and Forests
FAO     -  Food and Agricultural Organization of the
United Nations
IDA     -  International Development Association
PFL     -  Pacific Forum Line
PWD     -  Public Works Department
RDD     -  Rural Development Division
SPDC    -  Special Projects Development Corporation
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
USP     -  University of the South Pacific
VDP     -  Village Development Program
WSTEC   -  Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF WESTERN SAMOA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WESTERN SAMOA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Western Samoa
Beneficiary:    Department of Agriculture (DOA)
Amount:          SDR 1.6 million (US$2.0 million)
Terms:           Standard IDA
Project
Description:  The project is divided into two major components, under the
Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) and the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), respectively. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is responsible for the overall proj-
ect formulation and appraisal, and for subsequent supervision
of implementation. The ADB and the Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) will finance the WSTEC component,
while IDA will finance the foreign exchange portion of the
DOA component under a parallel cofinancing agreement.
The WSTEC component will provide assistance for the replant-
ing and rehabilitation of its coconut and cocoa plantings and
pasture areas, improvement and expansion of coffee, coconut
stems and soap processing facilities and the provision of
technical assistance. This component is expected to increase
productivity, resulting In enhanced domestic consumption and
exports of cocoa, copra, soap products, coconut stem products
and beef.
The research and extension component would provide assis-
tance to the DOA for improvements to research and extension
as follows: establishment of a National Agricultural
Extension Center, provision of 21 new field extension
centers, transport and support facilities, technical
assistance for agricultural research and extension, and
fellowships for overseas training. This component would
establish the basis for improved and diversified agriculture
and extend the resulting benefits to rural smallholders.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Cost:            The table below summarizes the total cost of the project:
Local Foreigna Total
(US$ million)
Part I: Estate Rehabilitation
(WSTEC)
Estates                             1,036     922   1,958
WSTEC overall                          84     156      240
Soap processing                        64     765      829
Coconut stem utilization               27     127      154
Planting cocoa                        278     257      535
Fertilizer                            239     669      908
Water supply                           21      l       217
Consultants                            91.    478      569
Subtotal                        1,840   3,5/C   5,410
Physical contingencies                241     385      626
Price escalation                      635   1,045   1,730
Total - Part I                  2,766   5,000   7,766
Part II: Agricultural Research
and Extension (DOA)
Civil works                          336      381      717
Vehicles                                9      85       94
Machinery and equipment                 4      67       71
Operations and maintenance             79     120      199
Consultants                           273     657      930
Overseas training fellowships           -     164      164
Subtotal                          701   1,474   2,175
Physical contingencies                140     177      317
Price escalation                      181     349      530
Total - Part II                 1,022   2,000   3,022
Total Project Costs (1+11)    3,788   7,000  10 0,788



- iii -
Financing Plan:                     WSTEC component            IDA component
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
----------- (US$ million) ---------------
WSTEC          2.8     -        2.8      -       -        -
ADAB           -        2.0     2.0      -       - 
ADB            -        3.0     3.0      -       -        -
Government    -        -        -        1.0     -        1.0
IDA            -       -        -        -       2.0      2.0
Total    2.8      5.0      7.8     1.0      2.0      3.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                  FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Annual          0.1     0.4      0.5      0.4     0.4      0.2
Cumulative      f.1     0.5      1.0      1.4     1.8      2.0
Rate of Return:   19% on "4STEC component; no ROR is computed on DOA compon-
ent which is devoted to research and extension.
Appraisal          This report has been prepared on the basis of an ADB
Report:          report entitled "Appraisal of the Agricultural Development
Project in Western Samoa," dated October 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO WESTERN SAMOA FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to Western Samoa for the equivalent of SDR 1.6 million (US$2.0 million)
on standard IDA terms to help co-finance a second agricultural development
project with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), which will be the lead
co-financing institution and will be responsible for supervision of the
project. This report and the draft legal documents are based on ADB's
appraisal of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The latest economic report, "Western Samoa:  Development Issues
and Prospects" (No. 2168a-WSO), is dated December 29, 1978. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        Western Samoa is a small island country in the South Pacific that
has been independent since 1962, following a period as a United Nations
trust territory administered by New Zealand. The country has a population
of 155,000, most of which live in the two main islands - Upolu and SavaVi
and a per capita GNP of US$360 (1977). The population is homogeneous,
almost all of it being of Samoan extraction. The closest country is
American Samoa, 130 km away; the distance to New Zealand is 2,900 km and
that to Hawaii is 4,200 km. Transportation is costly due to the country's
relative isolation from the main trading routes. The country's road system
of about 800 km mainly serves the coastal areas, which have the heaviest
population concentration. There is a fairly developed system of public
transportation. The main harbor is in Apia, the capital city and the only
major urban area, which is located on Upolu Island (see Map).
4.         The population's basic needs are reasonably well met.  Subsistence
(nonmonetary) production provides sufficient access to shelter, food and
clothing. Adult literacy is almost universal. There is a primary school in
every village and most children have nine years of basic education and at
least three years of high school education. A good coverage of health
services has been achieved through district hospitals and village clinics.
As shown in Annex I, there has been a general improvement in social
indicators over the last decade.
5.        Net emigration, principally to American Samoa and New Zealand, has
been important both in keeping down the population growth rate, from a
natural rate of about 3% per annum to a net growth rate of less than 1% per



- 2 -
annum during 1971-76, and in providing a large inflow of personal
remittances, equivalent to about 60% of the value of exports of goods and
services. Since 1975, however, New Zealand has limited the number of people
from Western Samoa who could apply for permanent residence and the number of
net emigrants has since dropped significantly. This does not appear to have
resulted in a noticeable increase in overt unemployment because of the
strength of the extended family system, but there is now greater population
pressure and consequently a need to expand income-earning opportunities.
6.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about
one half of GNP, employing two thirds of the active population, and
producing about two thirds of the country's exports of goods and services
(for a full discussion see Part III). The development of the industrial
sector has been limited by the small size of the domestic market and
isolated geographic location; as a result, the industrial sector currently
accounts for only about 10% of GDP and 5% of employment. Industrial
activity has increased in recent years; beer, cigarette and match factories,
and a feedmill have been established, and a coconut oil mill is under
construction. Tourism has expanded steadily, and now brings gross receipts
amounting to 20-25% of exports of goods and services.
7.        Reflecting the acceleration in the country's development effort
since 1975, development expenditures over the five-year period, 1974-79,
grew at an average annual rate of about 35% in current prices and 24% in
real terms, with a strong shift of emphasis in favor of agriculture, whose
share in the total development expenditures rose from 20% in 1975 to 35% in
1979. The expansion in the Government's development activities was made
possible by a substantial increase in the use of external assistance (mainly
grants and soft-term loans). Over the last plan period, 1975-79, external
resources financed about two thirds of development expenditures.
8.        The bulk of the domestic finance comes from current account sur-
pluses and the National Provident Fund, the main source of non-bank borrow-
ing from local sources. The budgetary surplus on the current account,
virtually static in the early 197Gs, showed significant improvement during
1977/79 as a result of higher economic growth, better administration and
enforcement of income tax, and new taxes and higher user charges for several
services introduced in 1977. However, the recent progress in lifting the
level of government saving must be sustained to ensure the availability of
domestic finance for long-term development. In this connection, the tax
structure should be reviewed to make it more productive and elastic, and the
scope for raising non-tax revenues fully utilized. Continued restraint on
the growth of current expenditures will also be necessary.
9.        Western Samoa's balance of payments largely reflects developments
in the agricultural sector. The stagnation in export volumes, together with
a steady expansion of imports, has meant growing trade and current account
deficits. Despite the substantial contributions of tourism and personal



- 3 -
remittances to foreign exchange receipts, the current account deficit has
widened significantly since 1974. As a result, the large resource gap (at
present 25% of GNP) has had to be financed through a growing reliance on
foreign grants and loans. Project grants have traditionally come from
Australia and New Zealand, while the main sources of loan finance are ADB,
IDA, New Zealand and the Federal Republic of Germany. Assistance has also
been received from the Opec Special Fund and EEC.
10.       The present debt service ratio of about 11% of exports of goods and
services is moderate. However, because of the wide imbalance between the
country s imports and exports and large fluctuations in its exports, virtually
all of Western Samoa's external public capital requirements should continue
to be met through grants and loans on concessional terms.
11.       Escalating oil prices have also contributed to the growing balance
of payments deficits. Import expenditure on petroleum, which presently
accounts for 10% of total imports, and absorbs as much as half of export
earnings, expanded ten-fold between 1974-79. To curb fuel imports,
investments in hydro schemes have been stepped up. It is anticipated that
the hydro projects already underway and others that are to be initiated
shortly will enable the country to become independent of diesel for
electricity within the next four to five years.
12.       The structure of Western Samoa-s balance of payments has a clear
long-term implication. While small, low-income island economies tend to
have large resource gaps, it will be unrealistic for the country to assume
that its present, unusually large resource gap of about 25-30% of GNP can be
maintained indefinitely. The balance of payments picture, therefore, also
underlines the need to tackle the problems of the agricultural sector with a
sense of urgency and determination. The proposed project is designed to
support this effort.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
13.       Western Samoa became a Bank Group member in June 1974.  In order
to embark on an active program of economic development, the country needed a
rapid expansion and improvement of its basic infrastructure. To this end
IDA helped finance, in 1975, the improvement of the east coast and central
cross-island roads in Upolu with a credit of US$4.4 million (First Highway
Project, Credit No. 535-WSO). This project has been substantially completed.
In 1979 a second IDA credit was made to help finance a first Agricultural
Development Project (Credit No. 951-WSO) with a major roads component. The
outstanding IDA credits of US$5.27 million represent about 11% of the
country's total outstanding external debt. Annex II contains a summary
statement on this credit and a note on the current status of the project.
There has been no IFC involvement in Western Samoa and none is envisaged in
the near future.



14.       Under a program of direct lending to small island economies such
as that described above, a series of relatively small, widely-spaced lending
operations usually evolve. Such a pattern of lending does not provide the
opportunity for continuous dialogue that is required. Bank staff have
therefore discussed with the ADB how the Bank might best assist the
Borrower by relying more heavily on the work of the ADB in the country.
These consultations have led to the cofinancing agreements for the proposed
project.
15.       The well-defined research and extension component of the Western
Samoa project has made a parallel cofinancing format particularly
applicable. Conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credits of both
the ADB and IDA would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of both credits have been met (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(a)). An administrative letter setting forth the details of administra-
tion of the IDA component by ADB will be signed by representatives of both
institutions.
16.       Agriculture is the key development sector in the country.  Within
this sector there is the large-scale plantation mode of production and the
small-scale village-based mode of production. Support of both modes is
urgent, a fact recognized by both ADB and IDA staff. Previous IDA and ADB
credits have tended to emphasize rehabilitation of plantations and provision
of infrastructure with the objective of achieving rapid increases in pro-
duction and efficiency in the plantation subsector. Some technical assist-
ance was provided to begin the more difficult task of increasing production
and efficiency at the village level. Increasingly it has been recognized
that major improvements in research and extension are the keys to making an
impact on the small-scale village mode of production. With the proposed
project the experience and concerns of both ADB and IDA staff have been
brought together in a project that continues to support the plantation mode
of production, but makes the first sustained attempt at improving village-
level production.
17.       It is expected that this emphasis on both modes of production in
the agriculture sector will continue, and will be reflected in future IDA
lending. The precise form of future IDA lending operations will depend to a
great extent on the response of the two modes of production to sustained
support.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Physical Background
18.       Of the country's total land area of 700,000 acres, about 20% has
high to moderate fertility, 16% moderate to low fertility, 64% low fertility.
The areas with agricultural potential lie between the coast and about 1,000
ft elevation. Some 80% of the land area (560,000 acres) is held in accord-
ance with Samoan tradition as customary land. The Government controls 11%
(77,000 acres) and the Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) 5%
(35,000 acres). Freehold lands amount to 4% (26,000 acres). A large pro-
portion of the customary land in production is under old coconuts, with the
balance used for taro and bananas. About 17,000 acres of WSTEC lands are
under coconuts, coffee, cocoa, bananas and pastures. The productive lands,
including WSTEC properties, total about 150,000 acres (about 20% of the total
area) scattered over the two main islands. The uncultivated lands are
covered by forest or secondary scrub, with the most valuable timber resources
being in the range of 1,000 to 1,500 ft above sea level. Climatic factors
such as rainfall (from 80 to 120 inches per annum), temperature (750 to
900F) and humidity do not impose restrictions on crop production. However,
occasional strong winds do cause damage, especially to banana crops in
exposed areas.
Western Samoan Society
19.       A unique feature of Western Samoa is the traditional structure of
its society. Villages consist of 20 to 30 extended families, called aiga.
An aiga is made up of an average of three nucleus families, each family
numbering about six. A typical aiga controls 15 to 20 acres of plantings.
These add up to a total of 400 to 500 people controlling 300 to 400 planted
acres per village. Each aiga elects its leader, or matai. A council of
matai, or fono, controls and manages the distribution and uses of land, as
well as of labor among family members, and makes all decisions at the
village level. About 80% of the land surface of Western Samoa belongs to
the aiga, and most of the country's agricultural production is under the
jurisdiction of the matai. Thus, the matai system has been a strong and
central force in the social, political and economic system of the country.
20.       However, the matai system is exposed to increasing stress at
present. The situation is complex. In the past there was little incentive
for villagers to work harder, because there was plentiful land which was
easy to develop and their few needs beyond subsistence requirements. More
recently the population pressure on land has become serious. Rapidly
increasing cash consciousness of the younger generation, combined with the
ready availability of foreign goods and exposure to foreign customs in the
country, is another factor that is calling for change. As a result, old
communal traditions and respect for matai authority are weakening, and a new
sense of individualism based on material (as opposed to ceremonial or



- 6 -
prestigious) incentives is fast emerging in the more mobile sections of the
population, especially the young people in and around Apia, where the
population concentration is heaviest. On the other hand, the agricultural
economy remains basically stagnant at subsistence level, and land use
continues to be based on customary laws, which preclude individual (as
opposed to extended family) rights and stable occupancy (land allocations
among family members are reviewed annually by the matais).
21.       In some of the more progressive villages, matais are giving ipso
facto permanent usufruct rights to nuclear families and changing their own
roles from those of chiefs to those of managers. In most of the villages,
however, changes are taking place much more slowly because of their direct
impact on matai powers and authority. In summary, development based on
villages involves sensitive issues and its approach should avoid unwarranted
socioeconomic upheavals if it is to be achieved smoothly.
Sectoral Context
22.       The agricultural sector represents the country's only viable
development possibility, accounting for more than one-half of GDP and
employing about two-thirds of the economically active population. However,
most of the agricultural and livestock production, which originates in vil-
lage areas, is for subsistence, and yields are uniformly low. In the past
production increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated area,
but good agricultural land, with moderate to high fertility and suitable
topography, is becoming progressively scarce. This, combined with the
population growth (the impact of which has substantially increased in recent
years due to reductions in the number of Western Samoans allowed to settle
in New Zealand), has worsened the long-term prospects for maintaining, let
alone improving, living standards along traditional lines. The situation is
further complicated by the lack of incentive for villagers to invest money
or labor on land improvement because the land is communally owned, and by
villagers' doubts about the benefits of such investments since there are no
examples of successful intensive development anywhere in the country.
23.       The Government has taken various steps to improve conditions in
the agricultural sector. The country's land development agency, WSTEC, is
substantially expanding its activities and is now taking the lead in new
land development, marketing operations, and agro-industrial enterprises. A
declining timber company was purchased by the Government and exports have
been profitably expanded. Efforts to increase the fish catch, and fish
refrigeration and canning capacity are proving successful. The continued
growth of the country's financial system is opening up new credit sources
for short- and medium-term investments. These several promising starts are
forming the nucleus of a strong development thrust. At the same. time the
Government has taken steps to improve living conditions in many villages
(where 70% of the population live) by providing them with access roads,
drinking water, health and education facilities and electricity.



-7-
Institutional Framework
24.       The Department of Agriculture (DOA), the Rural Development Divi-
sion (RDD) in the Prime Minister's Office and WSTEC are the most important
governmental agencies with responsibility for the development of the rural
sector.
25.       The Department of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for agricultural
research and extension, but it has performed its responsibilities poorly,
partly because of its lack of general development policies (resulting in
limited and largely ineffective research on less important crops and
pastures) and partly because of lack of effective management, manpower and
facilities. DOA's weaknesses have contributed to the stagnation of the
rural sector.
26.       The main shortcomings of the Research and Technical Services
Division of DOA are the lack of trained personnel and of coordination of
research activities. The position of Assistant Director of Research and
Technical Services has been established but remains vacant. The Government
has agreed to appoint a qualified candidate within 150 days of signing of
the ADB Loan Agreement (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
The few Samoans trained in agricultural science have been directed to non-
research activities, such as plant propagation, plant protection and
releasing animal breeding stock to farmers. The need for some expatriate
staff over the next five to ten years is clear. Research has been conducted
hitherto on an ad hoc basis with no coordination between projects. There is
no focus on adaptive research and consequently there are weaknesses in the
extension service. Several bilateral agencies and UNDP have established
support programs for DOA in agronomy, plant protection and livestock
husbandry. The facilities established under these programs at Nu'u,
together with the research facilities provided to WSTEC under an ADB loan
(1977) at the same location, have been largely used for annual crops
research work which needs strengthening. Research on perennial crops should
be initiated; and scientists should be provided the opportunity to conduct
adaptive research in different agroclimatic regions of the two islands.
27.       The Agricultural Extension Division is the principal field arm of
DOA and is responsible for direct contact with farm families. It has
recently been reorganized to decentralize supervision and management. If
fully staffed, the division would have 31 field assistants and ten district
field officers. At present, 12 posts at different levels of the extension
service are unfilled. The division does not currently have a program or
professional staff capable of mounting an extension program designed to
modernize agriculture, and attempts to influence the farmers to adopt
improved, income-increasing practices are disjointed. The DOA has diffi-
culty in recruiting qualified staff because the terms of service are unat-
tractive compared to other agricultural sector employers. Only two or three
persons have had any formal training in extension methodology; with very few
exceptions, extension staff have only received a primary school education.



- 8 -
28.       The Rural Development Division (RDD) in the Prime Minister's
Office is in charge of implementing the Village Development Program (VDP)
under which the Government is trying to improve villagers' living standards,
with villagers' support, within the established socioeconomic structure. By
the end of 1978, about 300, or more than 80% of all villages, had been
visited by interagency teams, which were assigned to make brief analyses of
warranted development needs while RDD organized subsequent input deliveries.
Investments are financed by a 5% village contribution, a 30% mixture of
village contribution and/or loan, and a 65% government grant which is deemed
necessary to induce villagers to participate in VDP, given their general
reluctance to incur debt.
29.       Although VDP's goals and energetic activities are commendable, the
program has a number of weaknesses. Investments, for example, have been
largely oriented to consumption, electricity, churches, and improved
housing, which are not directly related to generating self-sustaining growth
of agriculture. In addition, because of the lack of an adequate and tested
technical package, no suitable productive investments can be recommended at
present and villagers are not prepared to engage in integrated productive
investments requiring a major commitment of labor and/or money because many
of them cannot yet visualize either the need for, or the benefits from, such
investments. Finally, there is no adequate supervision, which results in
poor implementation. In summary, VDP is largely confined to providing
social investments and services for want of a suitable package of productive
investments.
30.       The Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) owns 35,000
acres, or 20% of the country's total cultivated area of 170,000 acres, and
is the largest enterprise in Western Samoa. It is wholly-owned by the
Government and is headed by a Board of six directors, appointed by the Head
of State, and is chaired by the Prime Minister. The administrative powers
of the Board are delegated to a General Manager.
31.       The Government regards WSTEC as a leader of the agriculture sec-
tor. It expects it to set the pace by developing and demonstrating progres-
sive crop and animal husbandry practices. WSTEC's major involvement is with
plantations. It has 14 estates on Upolu containing approximately 20,000
acres of plantation, and is developing about 10,000 acres on Savai'i Island.
WSTEC cultivates about 10,000 acres of coconut; all of it also grazed or
undercropped with cocoa or coffee. WSTEC has about 2,400 acres under cocoa
cultivation, of which part is grown as a pure stand, with yield averaging
about 300 pounds per acre. However, the cocoa is generally senile, too
thinly planted and overexposed to sun. WSTEC grows about 333 acres of cof-
fee, of which 318 acres are of the poor quality, "liberica" variety. The
coffee is all consumed in Western Samoa. Cattle is the next most important
WSTEC enterprise to coconut. The total cattle population on WSTEC properties
is about 12,000 head, which comprises 60% of the national herd.



- 9 -
32.       The nonagricultural enterprises of WSTEC include a soap factory, a
coconut stem utilization plant, a retail store, a service station and an
engineering shop. These activities are organized through a separate
administrative unit and do not conflict with the agricultural enterprises.
While the soap factory is essentially export oriented, the other facilities
serve WSTEC and the general public. Opportunities for increasing WSTEC's
revenues and profit margins by the manufacture of soap and the processing of
coconut-wood byproducts were studied by consultants. The recommendations
made to expand these facilities have been adopted and the appropriate
provisions have been made in the Project.
33.       WSTEC markets its produce through the Copra Board, Cocoa Board,
Banana Board and the Produce Marketing Board. It also markets some cocoa
directly through brokerage houses in London, New York, Auckland and Sydney,
and thus frequently secures a higher price for its better quality produce
than does the Cocoa Board for the lower quality smallholder cocoa. Cattle
are slaughtered at its own abbatoir, and the meat is sold on the domestic
market through the Corporation's own retail points and other retail traders.
WSTEC's meat processing and marketing facilities in Apia are also used to
market pork and pork products, such as bacon and ham.
Issues and Strategy
34.       The basic agricultural development issues confronting Western
Samoa at present are: (a) how to increase productivity, production, and
exports of traditional crops (coconuts, cocoa and coffee) rapidly and
substantially to close the resource gap; and (b) how to initiate and
increase subsistence farmers' participation in the above effort and its
benefits in the absence of large-scale development alternatives. The latter
will entail working within existing sociological and institutional
constraints so as to avoid unwarranted upheavals of the socioeconomic
structure of the society.
35.       The underlying duality in the scope for agricultural development
is increasingly apparent. WSTEC and other Government enterprises are in the
process of increasing commercial agricultural production to provide both
short- and long-term benefits to the economy and there is some potential in
the village agriculture subsector for increasing production beyond broad
subsistence requirements. The main thrust of the Fourth Development Plan
(1980-84) is on village development, through the Rural Development Program
of the Prime Minister's Department and through direct technical assistance
to village producers. Progress in village agriculture, however, is not
possible unless research and extension activities are-considerably improved
and for this reason the research and extension element proposed herein
assumes great importance.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The Project was identified in March/April 1979 and prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants, financed by ADB, on the basis
of feasibility studies done by FAO. IDA staff were given an opportunity to
comment on the project's DOA component at identification. An ADB mission
appraised the project in April/May 1980. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. Negotiations between the Government of Western
Samoa, WSTEC and ADB were held in July 1980.
37.       Objectives and Scope.  The overall aim of the Project is to assist
the Government to achieve its goals under the Development Plan (1980-84) to
increase agricultural production and export earnings, to save foreign
exchange through a more efficient utilization of its existing resources, and
to provide better income and employment opportunities in the rural sector.
To help achieve these objectives the project has been divided into two
major components: (a) providing assistance to WSTEC for the rehabilitation
and development of seven of its estates, the expansion of some of its
processing facilities, and the improvement of its management system and
technical capabilities; and (b) providing assistance to DOA for the
provision of facilities and expertise to strengthen its research and
extension capabilities. This is in line with the Government's agricultural
development strategy which includes making maximum use of WSTEC as the most
suitable entity for bringing about rapid agricultural development, and
concentrating efforts in traditional rural areas.
The WSTEC Component
38.       Crops.  Out of a total area of 7,525 ac of coconuts and cocoa
in seven estates, it is proposed to carry out development as follows:
Replanting  New planting  Rehabilitation   Total
-…------------------ (ac) --------------------
Coconut          1,000             -         3,750         4,750
Cocoa                -         1,000          1,775        2,775
Total       1.000        1,000          5,525         7,525
The plan envisaged would make full use of the economic life of existing
trees and bring about a phased introduction of young stock of coconuts and



- 11 -
cocoa. Fertilizer application is considered an integral part of the estate
rehabilitation program. The Government has given an assurance that the
fertilizer application program will be continued after the Project (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). Upgrading of existing roads
and fences and the construction of additional structures (such as housing,
offices and stores, copra and tractor sheds) will be provided at each
estate, as necessary.
39.       Cattle.  Cattle are at present grazed on Vaipapa, Tausagi and
Faleata estates. Under ADB's first project, cattle management on WSTEC
estates improved considerably, but the fattening areas for young stock need
to be increased by providing improved pasture, water and handling facilities.
Under the Project, about 800 ac of pasture on Vaipapa and Faleata will be
improved by fertilizing and by planting selected pasture species; drinking
water will be provided by tapping existing bores and reticulating water to
troughs in paddocks; and handling facilities will be improved by providing
weighing scales, cattle crushes, special cattle trucks, etc. These additions
will considerably increase the number of steers and heifers that can be
fattened on these estates.
40.       General Support Facilities.  The increase in production of cocoa
and copra will necessitate the construction of cocoa and copra stores at
Apia. The new copra store is also needed for the coconut oil mill, which is
being constructed. These stores will be built on land WSTEC is now
reclaiming for a general central complex at Fugalei in Apia. The existing
coffee hullers at Tuana'imato are obsolete and need to be replaced. Under
the proposed Project, a new coffee huller and tower drier are to be
installed in the new cocoa factory now being erected at Tuana'imato. They
will have a capacity of 150 tons of parchment, which will be adequate to
handle current and planned coffee production.
41.       Soap Processing Facilities.  The soap factory has reached its
maximum capacity of about 1,000 tons per year. The toilet soap produced
with capacity upgraded and expanded to 2,500 tons per year would be exported
to Hawaii, Australia and New Zealand and it would also meet the local
demand. The increasing demand for soap powder products, which is currently
filled through imports, would also be met locally.
42.       Coconut Stem Utilization Facilities.  The proposed expansion of
the sawing facilities and the pressure treatment plant will enable the
processing of coconut tree trunks felled under the coconut thinning program.
The mill will be capable of producing annually about 250,000 board feet of
lumber, of which half would be exportable, and 430,000 board feet of fence
post materials. It will produce as by-products 90-120 tons of fuelwood and
30-50 tons of charcoal.
43.       Consultants' Services.  Large new development activities on Upolu
and Savai-i are to be undertaken by WSTEC with external assistance over the
next five years. Certain areas of WSTEC's management will therefore need to



- 12 -
be strengthened and the proposed Project provides for a total of 108 man-
months of consultants services. These consultants will undertake specific
tasks and will also give on-the-job training to their counterparts and other
local staff. The consultants for institution building will have expertise
in the fields of financial controllership (24 man-months) and general
plantation administration (24 man-months). Three consultants with experience
in cocoa estate management (24 man-months), coconut estate management (24
man-months) and sawmill management (12 man-months) are proposed to assist
with project implementation.
DOA Component
44.       Agricultural Research.  Western Samoa has two main agroecological
zones: a wet zone and a dry zone. With the setting up of the Central
Agricultural Research Station at Nu'u through assistance from the Australian
and West German Governments and the research facilities provided to WSTEC
under a previous project, the country will have adequate facilities for
research into dry zone agriculture. However, facilities need to be provided
for the scientists working at the Nu'u Agricultural Research Station so they
can conduct field experiments at other sites representative of different
ecological conditions. The Project therefore provides for the strengthening
of facilities for adaptive research and for demonstration plots at the crop
experimentation centers at Togitogiga on Upolu and at Asau on Savai'i. The
Government has agreed to ensure that the research facilities established at
Vaia'ata and Asau under the first IDA credit will be available to DOA for
use as crop experimentation centers (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01(b)). These research activities will complement and not duplicate
any efforts now being undertaken by DOA, WSTEC or any bilateral aid agencies,
and are directed to the national needs, since the regional requirements are
being met by the School of Agriculture of USP at Alafua. At present, the
only agricultural research being carried out is for cocoa. There is a need
for applied research for other crops. Under the project two experienced
agronomists would be provided, each for 36 months: one for permanent tree
crops and another for bananas and other fruit crops. Applied research on
annual crops would be carried out under the ongoing IDA-financed Agricultural
Development Project. A total of 228 man-months of consultants' services
will be provided under the Project, 108 for the WSTEC component, 72 for DOA
research, and 48 for DOA extension. Cost per man-month is estimated at
US$9,000.
45.       Extension Services.  An extension training center, including
dormitory facilities for 25 people and housing for the Extension Program
Organizer, is to be provided at the Nu-u Agricultural Research Station.
Short term in-service training programs covering modern farm production and
processing techniques will be conducted for field extension workers,
agricultural officers and key farmers.
46.       There are 30 extension districts, each covering about 700 farm
families, but only nine have "Extension Stations" (i.e. office, store, house
and demonstration plot) and only seven have adequate facilities. The



- 13 -
extension officers serving 21 districts often have to live outside their
districts for lack of local facilities. This is obviously unsatisfactory.
The problem is exacerbated because transport is not provided for these
officers. It is therefore proposed to construct 21 new extension centers,
to upgrade the facilities of two centers, and to provide transport
facilities so as to improve the agricultural extension service.
47.        The extension staff is poorly trained and its management needs
improvement.  An Extension Program Organizer is therefore to be provided for
48 man-months to conduct suitable training programs and to orientate the
activities of this essential agricultural development support service to
farmer education. An extension system based on the "training and visit
system," will be introduced; this will originally entail well-known, simple
improved practices in traditional crops, to be followed by more comprehensive
packages as these are developed over the next 3-4 years. The Government
will take the necessary steps to recruit and retain qualified extension
workers, including a classification review and upgrading of the positions of
extension service personnel (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01(b)).
48.        Training - Fellowships.  Because of the shortage of trained
research and extension staff, overseas training is to be provided for local
staff. Provision of 120 manmonths of training at various suitable levels in
fields not available at USP are to be provided under the Project. Fifteen
manmonths of short-term research and extension training are also to be
provided. The Consultants for the Research/Extension component will be
expected to make recommendations about the type of training and its duration,
and to supplement overseas training and to provide substantial on-the-job
training to staff. Recipients of fellowships will be required to serve for
a specified amount of time after conclusion of their training (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Project Management and Implementation
49.       WSTEC will be the Executing Agency for estates, processing facili-
ties and other WSTEC-related support services; the Project Manager and
Project Office established to implement the first ADB loan to WSTEC will be
responsible for implementation (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01(b)). The Project Office is well organized and efficient and WSTEC is
capable of undertaking implementation with the assistance of consultants.
WSTEC's financial projections demonstrate that it is capable of carrying the
debt required to undertake this Project, which will make it a long-term
viable and profitable government enterprise.
50.       The DOA will be the Executing Agency for the applied research
and extension component. While the overall responsibility for the
implementation of this project component will rest with the Director of
Agriculture, a Project Office headed by a Project Manager and staffed with
adequate personnel will be established within 90 days of signing of the ADB
Loan Agreement (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).



- 14 -
The Project Manager will be at the Assistant Director level, but because hie
cannot be released entirely from his department duties, the Government has
agreed to appoint a full-time Deputy Project Manager to carry out the
day-to-day tasks involved in implementing the Project (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
51.        The project will be implemented over the period 1981-85.  Under
the WSTEC component, coconuts and cocoa will be planted over five years at
the rate of 200 acres per year. Application of fertilizers will be a
continuous process. Virtually all the equipment and processing facilities
will be purchased during the first year. Civil works, including the water
supply, is scheduled for the first three years, while fencing and road
building is phased on an estate by estate basis over five years. Under the
DOA component, the civil works are of a relatively simple character and will
be undertaken over five years. The Extension Training Center and the two
houses at Nu'u Agricultural Research Station will be constructed during the
first year. Construction and upgrading of the field extension centers will
be done over five years.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       The total cost of the Project, including provisions for physical
contingency and price escalation, is estimated at US$10.8 million, of which
US$7.0 million represents foreign exchange costs and US$3.8 million local
currency costs. A physical contingency of 15% for civil works, 10% for
equipment materials and 5% for consulting services is used. The price
contingency is estimated at 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% thereafter.
Goods imported for the Project will be exempted from taxes and custom-s
duties (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
53.       The foreign exchange cost of US$7.0 million will be obtained from
the following sources: the proposed IDA credit would provide, on standard
terms, US$2.0 million or about 19% of the total cost of the project. The
ADB, which will be the lead co-financing institution and will be responsible
for supervision of the Project, will provide US$3.0 million from its Special
Funds resources at a service charge of 1% per annum with a repayment period
of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years. The Australian
Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) will finance US$2.0 million on a grant
basis.
54.       ADAB will provide financing for fertilizer, cocoa planting, water
supply, coconut stem utilization facilities, and storage sheds. It will
administer its own funds under arrangements which are to be concluded between
the Government and ADAB and which are satisfactory to the ADB. Government
has undertaken to provide the additional funds required for carrying out the
Project, and for operation and maintenance of project facilities (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). For the WSTEC component, WSTEC
itself, since it is a viable commercial enterprise, will provide the
necessary local currency amounting to $2.8 million over the project period
of five years from its retained earnings. The financial projections for



- 15 -
WSTEC have been examined and this indicates that WSTEC should be able to
meet the local currency requirements from its cash flow. Government would
also allocate adequate funds to carry out the research and extension efforts
beyond the project period (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.02).
Financial Impact on WSTEC
55.       The Government will relend the proceeds of the ADB credit to WSTEC
in accordance with the provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which will
be concluded between the Borrower and WSTEC on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the ADB. The proceeds of the ADB loan will be relent to WSTEC for a
period of 20 years with a grace period of five years at ADB's current loan
rate. Over the period 1974-79 the annual average inflation rate was 8% and
it is expected to remain at that level for the next few years.
56.       The financial rate of return (FRR) to the capital invested in the
WSTEC component is 15%, which is considered satisfactory. The individual
financial rates of return for the WSTEC estates, soap processing and coconut
stem processing subcomponents are 14%, 14%, and 31%, respectively, which are
also considered satisfactory.
57.     As a wholly-owned government enterprise, WSTEC is required to
transfer its annual unappropriated profits to the Western Samoa Treasury.
WSTEC's ability to generate profits is important in that it provides another
source of revenue for the Government, particularly in the form of foreign
exchange. Over the economic life of the Project (25 years), WSTEC's
accumulated reserves will increase from WS$5.2 million to WS$58.0 million.
Long-term projections demonstrate that WSTEC has the capacity to carry the
debt required to undertake substantial development activities in the early
stages, which will make it a long term viable and profitable government
enterprise and an important contributor to the overall economy of Western
Samoa.
Procurement
58.       It has been agreed to procure all goods and services in accordance
with ADB Guidelines for Procurement. ADB is the lead cofinancing organization
and, since ADB's Guidelines were modeled after those of the World Bank and
IDA, they do not differ substantively from the IDA Guidelines, except on the
issue of source eligibility. Eligibility for the IDA-financed DOA component
will be in conformity with IDA Guidelines. It is recognized that because of
the remoteness of the country and because many small packages will be
involved, international shopping procedures will more effectively serve the
interest of economy and efficiency. Civil works will be performed by local
contractors or by force account.
Disbursement
59.       Disbursements of IDA funds for civil works procured under force
account and against small contracts for which prior review is not required
will be made against certificates of expenditure on the basis of 55% of



- 16 -
total cost, with the supporting documentation retained by the DOA, the
implementing agency, at one central location and made available for review
by IDA or ADB staff on request. For civil works procured under contracts
requiring prior review, and for all other items, disbursements will be made
against normal documentation on the basis of:  (i) 55% of total cost of
civil works; (ii) 100% of CIF cost of directly imported vehicles, materials
and equipment; (iii) 100% of local ex-factory cost of vehicles, materials
and equipment; (iv) 65% of cost of locally procured vehicles, materials and
equipment; (v) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants services; and
(vi) 100% of foreign expenditure for fellowships and overseas training.
Applications for withdrawal of funds under the IDA Credit will be submitted
in accordance with the procedures outlined in an administrative letter to be
signed between the ADB and IDA setting forth the details of project
administration.
Accounts and Audit Reports
60.       The Government will maintain, or cause to be maintained, accounts
for the Project. The accounts will be audited internally on a continuous
basis and annually by the Chief Auditor of the Government. Within six months
of the closing date of every fiscal year, the audited accounts of WSTEC and
of the project component administered by DOA will be submitted to ADB in
such details as the ADB may request from time to time (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.01). DOA will maintain accounts for expenditure
made under the Project for each co-lender separately. Records for expendi-
ture for civil works on force account and small contracts will be kept in
sufficient detail and audited on an annual basis by the Project s auditors.
A copy of each such audit report should be furnished to the Association as
soon as it is available.
Project Monitoring
61.       The DOA will be responsible for collecting data and monitoring in
respect of the DOA component of the Project. The Economic Analysis and
Planning Division of DOA in collaboration with the Extension Program
Organizer consultant will select samples and draw up questionnaires and
schedules for collecting the data required for monitoring and evaluating the
benefits of this part of the Project. A baseline survey to determine the
level of adoption of modern farm technology by smallholders will be conduc-
ted initially, and follow-up surveys and case studies will be instituted,
as deemed appropriate, to determine the impact of the DOA component of the
Project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Project Risks and Benefits
62.       The primary benefits to the economy from the WSTEC component will
be increased productivity resulting in enhanced export earnings from cocoa,
copra, soap products and coconut stem products, and a reduction in the
imports of soap and beef. The total incremental annual value of the WSTEC
component of the Project at full development and at constant 1980 prices is
estimated at $7.5 million, which can be expected to have a salutary effect



- 17 -
on the balance of payments position of the country. The impact of the
Agricultural Research and Extension component on incremental production in
the smallholder sector, although not easily quantifiable, can be expected to
be substantial, given the low productivity which prevails in village areas.
Further unquantifiable benefits, improvements in land use from
agricultural research and extension, and manpower training,will also accrue.
There are no unusual risks associated with the Project.
Economic Rate of Return
63.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the WSTEC component of the
Project is estimated at 19%. This level is considered satisfactory in
view of the substantial secondary benefits of the Project which have not
been quantified. Individual economic rates of return for the WSTEC estates,
soap processing and coconut stem processing subcomponents are 19, 15 and 32%
respectively, which are also considered satisfactory. The economic analysis
has been confined to the IISTEC component only, because of the difficulties
of assigning a precise level of benefits to the research and extension
component. Attributing precise levels of primary benefits to research and
extension is ambiguous since it is virtually impossible to determine what
proportion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices are
due to extension or research alone and what is due to past efforts in these
areas, the purchase of additional inputs or externalities.
Employment and Environmental Impact of the Project
64.       About 300 additional permanent employment opportunities in Western
Samoa will be created as a result of the Project. In addition, the incre-
mental labor demand during Project implementation is about 85,000 man-days
annually. This benefit is of considerable significance to Western Samoa in
view of the growing labor force and underemployment in the country, partic-
ularly since the bulk of the increased demand for labor is in the part-time
or seasonal category, which is well suited to Samoan rural conditions.
65.      The Project will not have any deleterious environmental effect.  A
beneficial environmental impact will result through the disposal of senile
coconut stems. At present about 3,000 coconut stems need to be disposed of
annually, increasing to 12,000 by 1987 and beyond. Decaying coconut stems
provide a natural breeding ground for coconut pests, particularly the
Rhinocerous beetle which is a grave threat to all coconut plantations in the
country. Clearly, the economic disposal of coconut stems as envisaged under
the Project will remove this hazard while contributing to the economic
development of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Western Samoa and
the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association



- 18 -
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Development Credit Agreement follows the general pattern of Development
Credit Agreements relating to agricultural projects. The conditions for
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement would be that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan have been met and
Western Samoa should have obtained the ADAB grant (see Section III of Annex
III).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
November 17, 1980



ANNEX I
-19-                                                  Page 1 of 4
TABLE 3A
WESTERN SA110A - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
WESTERN SAMOA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEB GES
LAND AREA (THOUSANDSQ. KMj                                                              - _MST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              2.9
AGRICULTURAL       1.2                                 MST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..          ..        ..                  894.8                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      76.0        113.0     187.0                 842.4                  1055.9
POPIJLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       0.11        0.14      0.15
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.2         20.0        ..                   39.1                    63.4
POPIULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED
POPULATION DENS ITT
PER SQ. 10i.                       38.0        48.0      53.0                  376.1                   28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    100.0        127.0     128.0                2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         48.0         47.4      39.7                   40.4                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                         48.9         49.9      57.0                  56.2                    54.7
65 YRE. AND ABOVE                    3.1         2.7       2.9                    3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0         2.4       1.2                    2.4                     2.7
BRBAN                               ..           ..        ..                    4.1                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        ..        31.6      35.0                   28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        ..         4.6       7.0                    7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2       2.4                    1.9                    2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT Of MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        ..                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
TNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..        98.0      88.0                  116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SFPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0         89.D      82.0                  108.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          56.0         53.0      49.0                   60.3                   65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0        25.0      22.0                   18.8                   33.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       5.0         5.0       2.0                    5.3                     8.4
IHEALTR
LIFP  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      ..        61.0      68.0                   63.0                   63.1
INFANT MSORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                        43.2      40.0                   52.8                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      43.0                   42.4                   65.9
URBAN                                ..        86.0     100.0                   62.1                   80.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      23.0                   29.7                   44.0
ACCESS rO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         84.0      99.0                   52.8                   62.3
URBAN                                         100.0     100.0                   71.1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..         80.0      99.0                   42.4                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHISICTAN               ..      2880.0    2942.0                 4120.1                 1849.2
POFULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       730.D     577.0                 2213.6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             200.0       215.0     231.0                  819.4                  480.3
URBAN                                ..          ..     117.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     325.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..      18.5                   28.8
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.1
URBAN                                           5.9
RURAL                                .          4.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          1.5
URPAN                                           3.4
RURAL                               ..          1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWEILINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         18.8
URBAN                               ..         65.8
RURAL                               ..          8.7



ANNEX I
-20-                                                   Page 2 of 4
TABLE 3A
WESTERN SAMVA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
WESTERN SAMOA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHTE
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                121.0        91.0        ..                  98.6                     99.7
MALE                   ..          ..         ..                  99.2                    101.0
FEMALE              127.0        88.0        ..                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                10.0        39.0         ..                  55.5                     34.4
MALE                   ..          ..        ..                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                8.0        42.0        ..                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)       ..         1.0       2.0                   13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0         28.0      27.0                  34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                         20.0         22.0        ..                  28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        97.4/c    97.8                   85.8                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPLULATION                        5.0          6.0       8.7                   9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        28.0        227.0     315.0                 118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          0.3       1.2                  39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..         ..                     ..                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          3.0       1.9                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       28.0         37.9      38.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..        14.1      16.7                  36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             69.0         66.9      61.2                  51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  ..          7.2       7.8                  21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  39.1                     31.5
KALE                                  ..           ..        ..                   48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                                ..           ..        ..                   29.6                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0         1.8       1.6                    1.1                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                 192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US $ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                     ..                   474.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                 182.3                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..                  33.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
anoog the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1966.
April, 1980



-21-                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
DFINIT IONSfi iF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note:  Although rh. data ar  dean from  sources generai1  judged she . mos         ht asoiet.iva sad reliable, it should also be noted thaPthcly may ... be Inter
carinoolic  ,omparabl  .n..s nIf the lack nIfsanodied             fiesiaad nonr.erte  seed by different onunrios in.  nleot,cing  the deta.  The darn ore, none-
thelso  oejiocdecibe orders of magnitde, tndiacereet.de, and cho.so.eWite  --ein major differences bewen Istie
The  tfenrc   grops  re  I) te ser  usniy goupot te sbja   contr  m    ..il   sostry ge-s  etch .-eehat higle-  ..eg   income that the co-ntry group
of thSu-c outy(set  c   Cptl lur -u Ol tepoecors" goa phe   'Middle  enn  North Aftrira sodM ddlEat   h. icte  because. If er-ge-
lasert halt ci the  onre    r   grou a :dostoo that '          Indioco'r.  lirene the oneg   fcntoetmn   h   eiotn    ced   nil   riahiyo
dsta ad.is no  s iIes, oguion mus be -eriseld in relatingsnrg eso   e   nio  toanthr.Thsea                               traeser  cely ucefu  inc-        pro th  e .bl,  uIo
LAtt A11A (ihb....sod sq.ks.)                                                                esosisticone Phyiin     uuato  dunoao   uu -pacaugpy
Toa  .Ota tuf eco are  -omPrtslg land sees asd in~land etrs                             i-io   t -'ford  'o  o sdico cho  51 nier ho1  level.
furcrps  patoes  mriotondlisisigsde  orp so. IIho        p tallon;1977 daa,    mai   and  emae guduaenIce                 . prcica  oues, sud asIsatucane
ki   h- rt.  lie   11.    9'77'd'.'Ytn. ulstis   e   ssle    e -ttldub~.                     ..tn. A. Pdolnin. co.
GNP PEI CAPITA (US1    G NP per  .spit. so -t Imae   tA co Itrest kaice  prines, oul-           obm   o   rusbdndd  raeeraprtn mse  of hospital beds
cu  tlae  by same. c   -nrico  eeocd as W.eld  tanIbus   (196b-78 basial; 1960.               nsilabia in pobli  mod pivat  gael andiopeniliteed hospital andem
1911G, sud 1970 dsTss__t.                               fhabilisiet eter. Stespiti  aretblishment  panmntly stafted
osogu   cuoeprluncoo u_t   -  ntsa  cnsmpio                  __ osemoo  snergyfnl             b  astatoephysitiam.  fattbliabserem  proniding ptfsotipslly r_t.diell
ad.iglnr        eolu,urre   a   o   yr-   ula  sod ge19a6 ma  misc-0caterst en  permaetly safdbyaPh-itnibnb      mais hs iste
isi  inlud   Wes ploipth gff.te  andptet syrigim d hosi-tdl no-d. n
PiPTI.AlIlN ANT VITAL STATIITICI                                                                 iid  -.I    diifilt..Fr..   trI_p..-b   hp-
12-L-IT222.1-ti-  Mid-Yeer                                            t' 11 ",~~~los icals loos or rural hosptal    -d medical and maternit  ranters
ictl Ppultin,  id-es  Imllisa    -Isf july  ;190, 1970, and 19708                 mhs. n  eec . Oneita-ie  h-PTrit camber uP admisosidrI                   sro
datu,                                                            from  hospirsis~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1  dlcided by tbe oumbec If bcds.
irhanr Poulticoflorcen ofittal)d iatli...uhen eItota  p-puatim
dtiee    dfiiton   o  sbon area   s ffeo t-mPr-hility of duts                  HOUSINI
t-tg csiree; 19hi. 1970, and 1970 idc.tAaaste    fgsabl  eraeoe  usb l-ttl,ubn   o    el
P-tculti  triciesAboeoi   esss  fagep  fidviul   h  eaelnegqatr
Pouato  5   er  O   -Creo   oeitinlroesin  aelme   n  SI            and. thir.ansas.herern   ogrmyo   aysnb   oidii
tois  ponlaiocby  ge  od  en  nd  hai   PorJtality so  tonsild It rate,         th  hoshl  for  iilEroe  Pufse
Prjrimpemttto   nilt   atstsre    ftreiylaes                                          reaeobrc   esn   e  om-tta.uhe   n   ua       'OaChm
to   ie   uecac  a   irttoeuigsu h         otyspo   sit   uds                   e  teir peausperoi       l  utb1n, so   rura toi lpieicnetion-
lect, ad fealeliCeenprcany eahileto   at7A h s.Te... hiles. esetney    saligescue  c-ereen   tutuedo
meroto fenls    aeas   amthese leneiItslsdgiug declineyin                                teonripied pdene.
Ilbrt   ae   isfeqult .pthdeth-          ae.ad  l                                                        Petbo age steno turin em-    laCt-aTIOr
oi  sct ar.Ti  sahoedsl   fe   etilty hue  delie.r                          dune  fenled ats
the  oplnesnt lnnici  nitset  epoduoisorose  ohn eob  eosrnin      Prmar scol-tota-l, ma.lelsd  eg          imirestoal  mlet           dteal
aslsted' fcc f-thebais o tthe -. pr)eneiossim            osn   h toplasme                   rimry  rboi--e ppoltiss;lie liyincude r_tlrs agd   -l
f-inlne your dlil, nnd the rar  of.. de.n  of feonilty  rtet  rp ae-yee.hs  doae  fur  iffPtiengtsP.                                        p :emr  _edn ti;to
mart f_linl.ins iis ith uniersal    I aduosnion  mrolean  may ened Ill peren
slo,Ia . e..   reahed   Jeoodrysohot-hoii.  al adiamae    Cmpuedasshne;sotear
Icnly.IfoosniA nal Enrollment R                                                                           rerosnofaodsn-lotisinttuos
PoslrirAn irucce(emtt-Chlrn(lIyas , othia-ag   117-,                                  rinolde  e          thlo .   -nulea, no  the  pro. -Gramswhib opca   ledpe
IAyas.adrtrd(6   ee   n   oe   sperrsa   fadya  pop-                                  dnty o   sdpemss  secndryi-1itnins
Ind  IthI-t  lose thousand)      th. - A Thi ie bionh  yet thuand ofy m.id-earIt    i..    d..t,                                    -      t-       td1         -
yupuition;1960.1971Iand  070:ata.                                               CfItlePt.,
Crude  h.s . Rus  (ertb ad -Analethperbd               lbuado   i-er                     Psmne  msfe  hosn   sosio   Pas e  care nopth                            omoo
pouain  190.   07,gd.90das                                                             arietiglsscy   eight poosoom; -lude-  ambulances, .bemoans a.trid
GrN  ecuuionet  -Aeee  nbo-ftshtrsonnilbett_nlnrneile
he   coa  cyodcin   orn   i  beepelorspessoae-pril  fe  ldn sesen  nc lueu  eriair)-Al  ypsnfrcevrsfrPai
tIlty  ais;  ssely   ie-rmo   reafe  anin  inlOt. 171  an  tOl. brod cst  nugeoes  pulirpeethusad o  ppup ein;- olueauli
Peamlly  k-    Midolo -A YeairsP,I.i   Pera (hosad) . Asr  i  ube okilaton                  cota  eomnroinrootis  odinyerstmoreisrain   f  adof
-amIy  "e,oIl-lyr (frnet.o  mReer ose-)--Pecenageof-arred                                    nuorieshtishd  ioanleg
Pl.  mare -osmin namet              -p d..be  age ftOiP.1                                  gaoer..   pulcproosu    oplso;dcueuiiesdT   a nr
5uo    lra   ein  atn.C Cmhilde cwr- p0i14cy  goods (e.g  suki garus               to he "Idaiy   if'  tinappears sof lathfor ptitassasemi. pietidpn
6rsdo  sgr I   Ehcor  eiland -oosinupr--egcs  (e.g                    -y.rcfu  sod       Ciem  Anualy  Atoendaunp. ot    Cet t ea   ierBae    ntetubrn
iv   r   ulde)         grgtepouto  ofIsl  onty  sbaedo
Per cacua surel of calrieshlorcretIi tansirmmnda)                                                                          e-odpotd rtin nd  tebie-units
sects onr.e  ti...ted hrPA9     lmd  i  hsiloialwed  ion 0mmmii uctl-971970 dana.P.d
sod It se - dn Reuti    cppuain   and sheaIn  10t penat.  Iforbeasnepr                     Adtli.liture  eeroni) - .hetom -itefrmig  fores(bl,tr, huntingl 5titd
lent ol   ener; 1961-h,1970, and 19)  dna                                                 tshogaspsetag  of  ecllaofen;9h,17sd 197  dta.
P.er cairth suppyu   tentein -s   cAr..  day)-   Prothpein cttons.. df pripits             ndye   (sronP.      -taho  to tet  minl.ing   costucio,  nnfetud           o
alon-       oof6  gon  ofcrlpoenptdysd2   rm  f  aimalysod                               Psot..lestlo  late (pernte...nd - enisti.nmle an P tensgn  -.t P cparium  c
Wor.ldtloud 1urcey 1961-67, 167  ad.     17t     aa                                        91,17,sd  91dc.Tasaantrotcpre                                  7otsriei
Per could cruri-  aSetl  -term        =b   Ifna  a d-rush- roti  suply ofe foo   is-            . a e-sn  teccuro.o the.ih pspitio    nd; ..lon   amd red   Afe   s
rIed Icn            IYml  andiulse  in-goos  parday;  1960-6.f171sd177ii.               tniit lmdoylai      ai  of populseu                      s  15p.   and -i-so foer  di
Chlrpuc  -) ata yistd iee th.oupsrdl- Anisel ..ath .-perithusad i                          toth tcisi labo  fote.. dp..--
at hitch;1960, 197  and 19y0data.1of0euseho1d7
Infattmotaliy:laer(pr tupsbd)i-dnpier dath  of...mnsduner  pa yar1P1I                                                                                         Ci ThefT VOfP
Iccsuo nfoWaerliroot  f ucuotoc  -totlA-olm andr Ifea c t-                      Absolud rte pnn_t  income ilece    d Is ha  lecome hlerel t~~t I    If oo  e min Ima
sorr  oply )llcl-Udc- tPr eate  suf aceinaners  -c Pnorcatniebut smntrmioed                  iffodaff..t    ..f,--y..ic
nsttcaIclisdibka. IroE proected4 hoebmise. ..springs,andsantary amise) St                intimated. i bi ihedPvet leon..ineLvl.g.arntt)-uba   o   oa 
pocootgosof  hei  repeoiorpoplatons   lacotenaasaubTV nR.leiaau    poosetyd tunm  isnel) is non-thId    f.sog  pee rscltts
ictaoorid    dcr  oae    onar   ho  Dmtr  foaue   myb                                    eanaEnoe-fimcunr.Ibc  ae   ndeie   e eI    ua
coudrea   onguil  raosleucnso   hs  os.Pnrrl  t5                                    nvl1 min  id up heo  for  igh r cusIf.; co   in~d   urbanareas
rural - Number of poI.epled(total,. detad,psodlyrural)tsednedItby.macrota
-lm    -d-lan yentge  of  C-ditiespcoso   ppoloctyng..dtoeata Oh-                                                    ineosmin ad bocia ita Iiisit
ecu d If lcld   thin  oleth        od dipo-i.ubo            (et.gu  ..fasf..                                       tcndnCi  AuayAis  nd Proectios -ap-tpeo
cc  uns  cocoo nd osceosor  c mcn-hons  yatsson  hess c  ,Aprl.  00
pIn poinedioreaud  similar.lou-tthlstibos.



ANNIEX J
-22-                                                 Page 4 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - WESTERN SAMOA
AREA                  POPULATION (mid-1979)                                        DENSITY
2,840 sq km           155 (thousand)                                               54 per sq km
Net Rate of Growth:  0.7% (from 1971 to 1976)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1979)                                                  HEALTH
Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                     33.5                              Population per physician                     2,942
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                      6.8                              Population per hospital bed                    231
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)   38.0
EDUCATION                                                                        ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Adult literacy rate                              97.8Z                            Z of population - urban                        65.9
Primary school enrollment                        91%                             % of population - rural                          8.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER                                                             NUTRITION
% of population - urban                         100.0                            Calorie intake as % of requirement              82.0
- rural                        23.0                            Per capita daily protein intake (gms)    49.0
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977: US$360 /s
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976 (Current prices)              GOVERNMENT FINANCE
WS$ mln
US$ Mln.          Z                                                                             1979
GNY at market prices /b            50.0          100.0       Current receipts                                                    23.3
Exports of goods                    4.3            8.6       Current expenditure                                                 16.4
imports of goods                   18.9           37.8       Current surplus                                                      6.9
Capital expenditure                                                 28.8
External assistance and other (net)                                 21.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                      1970     1971     1972     1973      1974     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979
(Miillions WS$ outstanding at end period)
Money and quasi-money                          3.8      4.1      4.7      6.1       7.1      7.5      9.2     10.9    12.7    18.2
Bank credit to public sector                   ...    -0.5       0.5      1.1       1.2      0.5      0.1    -0.8        1.0      4.8
Bank credit to private sector                  ...      2.0      2.6      2.9      4.1       3.8      5.9      7.2    10.1    10.7
(Percentages or index numbers)
Consumer price index (1971=100)               95.6   100.0   108.8   135.0   159.6   158.2   180.4   196.2   203.4   251.2
Annual percentage change in:
Consumer price index                           2.9      4.6      8.8    24.1    18.2    -0.8    14.0           8.8      3.7      23.5
Bank credit to public sector                   ...      ...      -      227.1      4.9   -58.3   -80.0  -900.0          -      380.0
Bank credit to private sector                  ...      ...     29.7    10.7    42.3    -7.3         53.3    22.0    40.3         5.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1977       1978      1979                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
(US$ milion)
US$ Mln.        %
Exports of goods                           14.9       11.6      19.8
Imports of goods                           38.4       52.4      58.6                 Copra                           6.9        44.5
Trade balance                             -23.6    -40.8    -38.8                    Cocoa                           5.6         36.1
Bananas                         0.2          1.3
Services (net)                              0.4        0.4       0.6                 Timber                          0.3          1.9
Transfers (net)                            15.1       18.4      28.2                 Taro                            1.1          7.1
Private                                  (5.8)      (9.2)     (8.8)               Other                            1.4         9.1
Governments                              (9.3)      (9.2)   (19.4)
Total                     15.5        100.0
Balance on current account                 -8.1    -22.0        -9.9
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1979             US$ ttln.
Nonmonetary capital                        13.2       15.0       7.6
Official                                 (6.4)   (10.8)   (18.2)                  Public debt, incl. guaranteed               48.2
Private /b                               (6.8)     (4.2)  (-10.6)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 /c                %
Overall balance                             5.1       -7.0      -2.3
Gross reserves (end year)                  11.4        6.1       5.7                 Public debt, incl. guaranteed               11.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING, May 1980                   IDA
1974     1975     1976     1977     1978      1979              (US$ million)
WS$1.00 = US$             1.649    1.585    1.255    1.271    1.358    1.221         Outstanding & disbursed                      5.1
IUS$1.00 = WS$            0.606    0.631    0.797   0.787    0.736    0.819          Undisbursed                                  7.3
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed              12.4
/a Estimates are tentative, as there are no national income accounts.
/b Includes errors and omissions.
/c Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
September 15, 1980



-23-                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1980)
Amount in US$ Million
Credit                                           (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year   Borrower          Purpose        IDA        TJndisbursed
The loan fully disbursed                         4.4
951     1979  WJestern Samoa Agricultural
Development                    8.0           6.4
Total                                   12.4
of which has been repaid                -
Total now outstanding                    12.4
Amount sold                               -
of which has been repaid                -
Total now held by IDA                    12.4
Total undisbursed                                      6.4
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1980)
None.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 951-WSO: Agricultural Development Project, US$8.0 Million Credit
November 27, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Project is the initial phase of a long term agricultural
development program based on increased productivity, production and exports
of cocoa, coffee, coconuts, tubers and other crops in lands of the Western
Samoa Trust Estates Corporation, a parastatal entity, and in selected
village areas on Savai-i Island. The main project components are roads,
nurseries, and field development. A work program for 1980, agreed by all
participating agencies, is being implemented and satisfactory progress is
reported. Roadworks and overall disbursements are ahead of appraisal
estimates.



-25-                           ANNEX III
Page 1
WESTERN SAMOA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project           : Two years
(b)  Project prepared by                     : Government and Asian
Development Bank
(c)  First presented to IDA                  : April 1979
(d)  Preparation mission                     : January 1980
(e)  Departure of ADB appraisal mission   : April 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations              : October 17, 1980
(g)  Estimated date of effectiveness         : April 30, 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) All conditions precedent to effectiveness of the ADB credit would
have been met (para. 15); and
(b) Government will have obtained the ADAB grant (para. 66).
Other Conditions:
(a)  Government will appoint a qualified Assistant Director of Research
and Technical Services in DOA within 150 days of signing of the
ADB Loan Agreement (para. 26);
(b) Government will ensure continuation of fertilizer program after
project completion (para. 38);
(c) research facilities at Vaia'ta and Asau will be available to
DOA for crop experimentation (para. 44);



-26-                          ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Government will undertake a review of the position classification
of extension service personnel in DOA (para. 47);
(e) Recipients of fellowships will serve for a specified amount of
time following their training (para. 48);
(f)  A Project Office, headed a Project Manager and adequately
staffed, will be established by DOA within 90 days of signing
of the ADB Loan Agreement (para. 50);
(g) Government will appoint a full-time Deputy Project Manager
(para. 50);
(h) Goods imported for the Project will be exempted from customs
duties (para. 52);
(i) Government and WSTEC will sign a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(para. 55); and
(j) A baseline survey to determine impact of DOA component will be
carried out (para. 61).



172t00 W
MAP OF WESTERN SAMOA
SAVAI'I ISLAND
Fagamal o
FSagafot SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
Falealupo           001 '0i         sa\t
p _Staua                                   ogg j     llabeulu
( Asa~~~~u                             to_ 
Neiaf                                                          Pna  t°\oomeaA
Falell        m :\                                                                                         
w_ ~~~~~~~Mt. Silifiti                                                                                                         A\- J
SAL
M R   - rUt.  M0ftX T u""                                                     , 5      C     5    10      5    20 Miles
Sala llua \x. ;Z.L1
Lataluta\     C                           Palaull    z;lelologo
UPOLU ISLAND
SatuPata                                           N                    lafu (USP
APOLIMA  '. .                                     A
Mullfanua f0
MANONO                                         l
SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
FaslFata                                                                   o M ie
L E G E N D                                                                  . LanutoO       Mt. Fito                      a Ba
Roads
14'00'------Ferry FarrY                                                                                                                                 Lepa        t0
-         WSTEC Estates
Poutasl                      NU'UTELE t
Government Land                                                                                             NU'ULUA
-         Freehold Land
172,00'W



