REST F,IC T1D
~.f.
Report No. SAM: Ap-i1
Thi Rdot- hmben prepared for
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK               IZ      ive    of the Eak.
APPRAISAL
OFTHE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
WESTERN SAMOA
R
OCTOBER 1980 AL



CURMNCGY EQZJIVALENTS
WasUof 30  usie 1980)
GCarrency.-Unit                    Western Samoa Tala (WS$) i
WS$ l O0 -              US$1. 1060
US$1. 00                WS$,. ,                                4
(a)  Since 27 October 1975 the WS$ exchange rate has been determined
daily on the basis of the weighted basket of currencies used by
New *Zealand. The Western Samoa Tala was devalued by 15 per
cent an 20 June 1979.
(b)  For -purpose of calculations in the Appratisal Report, a rate of
US$1 00 a WS$0. 9139 has been used.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
.1 acre           *     0.405 hectares
1gallon                 4. 546 litres
1 mile            X     1.609 kilometres,
1 pound                 0.454 kilograms
1 ton (2240 lbs.)  .    1008 kilograms
1. board foot           1 piece of timber 12 inches by
12 inches by 1 inch
NOTES
-i)   Throughout this report "1$"1 refers to U.S. Dollar.
(it)  The Fiscal Year for the Government and WSTEC begins on
I January.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB          -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
DBWS          -   Development Bank of Western Samoa
DOA           -   Department of Agriculture and Forests
FAO           -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations
-A-  International Development Association
PFL           -   Pacific Forum Line
PW-D          -   Public Works Department
SPDC          -   Special Projects Development Corporation
SPDMIC        -   South Pacific Developing Member Country
UNDP          -   United Nations Development Program
USAID         -   United States Agency for International
Dev,4lopment
USP           -   UMAversity of the South Pacific
WSTEC         -   Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation



PROJECT FOCUS, DESIGN AND RATIONALE.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the econory and comprises
two distinct subsectors: the smallholder and commercial. The
primary gal of national policy is to increase agricultural production
both for domestic consumption and export. The purpose of the
Project is to assist the Government in its efforts to increase agri-
cultural production through a more efficient utiliz-ation of the country's
resources, and to provide increased income and employment oppor-
tunities in the rural sector. The Project is designed to help the
achievement of these objectives in both agricultural subsectors through
the provision of agricultural inputs, infrastructure development and
institution building.
2.       . The Project ints will include assistance to WSTEC, the
largest commercial organization: to replant 1,000 acres of senile
coconuts and plant 1 000 acres of cocoa under coconuts; fertilize
existing cocoa and coconut; provide infrastructure facilities such as
roads, fences, transport, storage sheds, drinking water, . livestock
equipment and pasture improvement for cattle; expand existing soap
processing facilities; replace coffee processing facilities; improve
and expand coconut stem utilization facilities; and provide consultants'
services for institution building and project implementation.  The
smallholder subsector will benefit from the Project through inputs to.
DOA which is wholly responsible for research and extension for this
subsector, for improving its applied research capabilities and extension
service at the field level. The Project will provide DOA with research
facilities in the major agroecological regions; a national Agricultural
Extension Center for in-service training; construction of 21 field
extension centers and improvem'ent to two others; provision of trans-
port facilities; consultants' services for strengthening staff capacity;
and provision of training fellowships for Samoans in agricultural
research and extension.  The total cost of the Project is $10.8 million
of which the foreign exchange cost is $7. 0 million and the Bank' s
contribution $3. 0 million.
3.        The incremental project outputs at full development on an
annual basis are estimated at 1,100 tons of cocoa valued at $2.9
million; 1,400 tons of copra valued at $611, 000; 500 tons of laundry
soap valued at $588, 000; 400 tons of toilet soap valued at $1, 310, 000;
400 tons of soap powder valued at $1.9 million; ,Z5O0, 000 board ft of
exportable grade timber; 430,000 board ft of .&nce post rmaterials;
90-120 tons of fuelwood and 30-50 tons of charcoal from coconut
ster utilization facilities valued at $170, 000; and beef production of



68 tons valu`d at $60, 000. The total incremental annual value of
the WSTEC component at full development is estimated at $7. 5 million.
The output from the smallholder subsector due to the Agricultural
Resear.h and Extetision component, though not easily quantifiable,
can be expected to be siubstantial, given the present low productivity
in the agricultural sector. With regard to the assumgtions of the
Project, besidles the standard provisions and requirements contained
in the loan agreements of the Bank, specific assurances were obtained
frorn the. Government (para. 134, Pages 41-42) to ensure the successful
implementation of the Project: organization of executing agencies;
expeditioous dlearance, of imported goods for the Project; position
classification of the extension service; appointments to vacancies in
technical positions at DOA; and continuation of the Project after the
investment period. The achievements and progress of the Project
will be monitored through the Bank's operational activities such as
review missions, and also the project benefit monitoring envisaged
under the Project.
4.         The major economic risk associated with the Project
relates to th4 World market prices for cocoa and coconuts which are
the major outputs of the Project.  This risk, however, has been
minimized by interplanting cocoa with coconuts which are subject to
different market conditions. An institutional risk associated with the
Ag.ricultural Research and Extension Component is the capacity of
DOA to attract and retain suitable staff for the implementation of the
Pr,oject.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
MAP1                                                 (ii)
MAP2                                                 (iii)
I.  INTRODUCTION                                            1
II.  BACKGROUND                                             3
A.    General                                           3
B.   The Agricultural Sector                           3
C.   Agricultural Products                             4
D.   Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation           6
E.   Agricultural Support Services                     8
F.   External Assistance to the Agricultural Sector    13
III.  THE PROJECT                                           17
A.    Objectives and Scope                             17
B.   Project Components                               17
C.   Details of Project Components                    19
D.   Project Costs                                    26
E.   Financing Plan                                   28
F.   Relending Arrangements with WSTEC                29
G.   Environmental Impact                             30
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                  31
A.    Executing Agencies                               31
B.   Implementation Schedule                          32
C.   Procurement                                      32
D.   Consultants                                      34
E.   Accounts and Audit Reports                       34
F.   Project Benefit Monitoring System                 34
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                      36
A.    Benefits to the National Economy                 36
B.   Benefits to WSTEC                                39
C.   Social Impact of the Project                     40
VI.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                       41
APPENDIXES                                            43



- gk
* ;                  t72LOOFW
MAP OF WESTERN SAMOA
SAVAN'I ISLAND-
Farmalo
Satotu               SOUTH    FACIFIC    OCEAN
FaloWup                         -f0009 ea'l
Mt. Silisili
SCAL-E
- - , Mt. Mafne) S                                                    5         5    10   5    20 Miles      _|
(                       Tuasivi
Palauli    1119
UPOLU ISLAND
tu
L L. .1' r->>vs. 2 g--Alafua (USP)-
: .w : .. t + - ; i¢LlWA. ,, PIA
-   '  '   -          ~R oa ds            ,<
!4 FerrybLp
-i                                . WSTEC Estates             S                                    aXUteLBe y\-
Falutasi It SigaeleEtQ
[,3      Government Land                                                                       NUULUA L
-          Freehold Land                                .
Govrnment Land
;   ' *  , ,  .  '  .-  'L'A
FreodLn



172'00'M1.r'                                                             '
WESTERN SAMOA:'
AGRICULTURAL DEVELoPMENT PROJECT:
Location of Project Activities
WSTEC Component
FAILEATA
CASALA-                     COCONUT STEM UTILISATIoN
TUANA IMATO>               V
FUGALEI.
APIA                                                        FACTORY              3ILES
-              L-TAFAIGATA                                   4000 H000
METER
VAI PAPA
TAUSAG I
,4O'   ,          S4A -D
-         ~~~WSTECII1ESTATES             ,.|
-     WSTEC I ESTATES .-
17*;0'N                                                                    .    '
'   17z00'N.:      '  0'   -    '   0   '  -'  i )       2  '          '  ' -~      -..y'  ;  ''' *'



Io .1NTR22OgDU
A fonolbility o u y carried ovt in 1977 by FAO under a Bank
technical gazzitanc- grant- examined the rehabilitation of Western Samoa
Trust Jsmtates Corporration' s (WSTEC) 14 estates on Upolu Island in Western
3amoa. rollowing the receipt of the report, the Government of Western
r!noa. and the Bank agreed that a phased rehabilitation of the estates would
'e more prudent and would not excessively tax the implefntenting capacity
of WSTEC. In December 1977 the Bank approved a loanEL of $3. 0 million
to Western Samoa for the rehabilitation of six WSTEC estates on Upolu
Island.
2.        In early 1979 the Government requested technical assistance
to formulate a project for a second loan to WSTEC tp rehabilitate the other
eight eatates. This was approved in October 19793 -and three consultants
were fielded in November 1979 to update certain aspects of the original
feasibility study and to examine product processing in detail. In addition;
in response to a request from the Government, the Bank provided two
conanlotSs from the International Agricultural Development Service
(IADXJ3Y-to examine the National Agricultural Research and Extension
Services and to make recommendations for their improvement. A Project
Formulation Mission dircussed the consultants' reports with the Government
in November/December 1979 and these discussions led to an agreement
about the scope of the Project discussed in ihs report.
3.        An Appraisal Mission visited Western Samoa from 23 April to
13 May 1980 to appraise an Agricultural Development Project which was
to comprise the rehabilitation of the other eight WSTEC E,(ftates and the
streagthening of the Department of Agriculture and Forests' (DOA)
Agricultural Research and Extension Services. The Mission comprised
M. D. Bauche (Mission Chief), R. W. Arnison (Agronomist), N.
Amerasinghe (Project Economist), 0. Gendrano (Forestry Specialist) and
R. Keswani (Senior Counsel). This report is based on the original FAO
feasibility study, the consultants' reports, findings of the Project Formulation
i/ T. A. No. 189: Agricultural Development Project.
~/ Lo,an No. 338-SAM(SF): WSTEC Agricultural Development Project.
#/ T. A. No. 308/79: WSTEC Agricultural Development Project II.
f/ IADS was commissioned by the Bank in March/April 1979 to conduct
this study.



Mission, field visits, and discussions the Appraisal Mission had with
officials of the Government and the executing agencies.
4.        After careful consideration by the Mission, some compo-
keF* included in the original Government request were excluded
from the Project, for the foll6wing reasons:
(i)  Rehabilitation of WSTEC estates:
5.        Only seven of the eight estates remaining on Upolu Island
have been included in the Project.  The Malalololei estate, consisting
of some 85 acres, was inspected and it was found that because of its
small size and the lack of land for expansion, the investment required
could not be justified. As a result, the rehabilitation of the Malalololei
estate has been excluded from the Project.
(ii)  Agricultural Education:
6.        The provision of agricultural education at the secondary
school level was to have been included in the Project. However,
subsequent to the Government's 2equest and before the Project was
appraised there were certain changes in the field of agricultural
education in Western Samoa.  The Australian Government undertook
to provide a comprehensive program on agricultural science to the
Secondary Teacher's College, and is constructing an agricultural
laboratory and developing field plots there. The Mission therefore
decided to exclude this component from the Project.



-3-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
7.       Western Samoa, which is located in the South Pacific, com-
prises two main islands, Upolu (1,065 sq.km.) and Savai'i(l, 735 sq.km.).
Its total population is estimated at 155, 000, of which nearly 72 per cent
live on Upolu. Natural population growth is entimated at 3.0 per cent per
year during 1975-79, but emigiation, mainly to American Samoa and New
Zealand, reduced the actual growth rate to less than 1 per cent per year
during this period. The demand for additional employment opportunities
is growing, particularly in the capital - Apia. q5pss National Product
(GNP) per capita was estimated at $350 in 1976.
B. The Agricultural Sector
8..      Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy and accounts for
approximately 50 per cent of the GNP. More than two-thirds of the popu-
lation depend upon agriculture, including forestry and fishing, for their
livelihood. Agricultural products - copra, cocoa, bananas and taro -
account for about 90 per cent of export earnings. Because of the importance
of agriculture, the Government attaches considerable importance to im-
proving its productivity, and gives high priority to agricultural and rural
development. The current Five Year Plan (1980-84) places emphasis on
projects capable of enhancing the productive base of the economy, in-
creasing exports, creating import substitution industries, generating
employment and diversifying the economy.
C-       Of the total land area of 694, 000 acres, an estimated 170, 000
acres are now under cultivation. Most of the land (81 per cent) is. held by
villages as customary land. The Gover ment holds 11 per cent; WSTEC,
4 per cent; and 4 per cent is freehold. 27/
AQ.      The agricultural sector comprises two subsectors: the village
or smallholder subsector and the-commercial subsector. It is dominated
by the village or srnallholder subsector.  The,.rur*i population of about 130, 000
lives in about 350 villages, which are located along the coast, and village
i/ World Bank estimates. No later estimate is available.
i/ See Map 1 on page (ii).



4
lands stretch inland towards the central mountain areas, Agricultural
production in the commercial sector is largely carried out by WSTEC, with
a few isolated efforts by other agencies such as Government departments.
1L        There is considerable scope for the development of the agri-
cultural sector, and this could lead to-significant increases in export
eariings and in savings of foreign exchange through import substitution.
As many of the most suitable forms of agriculture are labor intensive, their
development would create substantial employment opportunities. Further,
in view of the limited natural resources in the country, any opportunities
for industrialization would depend on raw materials produced in the agri-
cultural sector.
12.       The underlying duality in the scope for agricultural development
is increasingly apparent. There is some potential in the village agriculture
subsector for increasing production beyond broad subsistence requirements.
WSTEC and other Government and private enterprises could, if reorganized
and rehabilitated, increase commercial agricultural production to provide
both short- and long-term benefits to the economy. The main thrust of the
Fourth Development Plan (1980-84) is on village development, through the
Rural Development Program of the Prime Minister's Department and
through direct technical assistance to village producers. The WSTEC pro-
jects on Upolu and Savai'i will be the largest developments in the commer-
cial agriculture sector and they will help that organization to eypend its
contribution to national production, to provide a significant amount of addi-
tional employment, and to provide a model for further large scale develop-
ment.
C. Agricultural Products
1. Coconuts
13.        Coconut :.s the basis of the Western Samoan economy. It
provides the largest tex-ort earnings (as copra) and is the foundation of the
Samoan lifestyle, for i s used in cooking, for fuel and as building materials.
4..        The current area of productive coconuts is approximately
90, 000 acres and another 32, 000 acres are planted but have yet to come
into bearing. Annual production is estimated to be around 30, 000 tons
(copra equivalent). About one-third of this is used in fresh form for
domestic consumption. During the period 1971-76, annual copra produc-
tion ranged from 13, 000 to 19, 000 'cons.
IS.        The current levels of productivity in the copra industry are
low by world -standards, averaging about 700 lbs.of dry copra per acre.



This is due to sevzral factors, such as senile plantations, poor cultural
techniques, lack of fertilizer, failure to remove the old trees under which
the new stand has been planted and failure to collect the crop on time.
Many of these constraints could be removed through an effective extension
service.
2. Cocoa
16.       Cocoa, which is produced primarily for export, occupies about
12, 000 acres. Both production and yields have declined since the early
1950s, and total annual production is now about 1, 540 tons. This decline
is attributed to poor agronomic management, low soil fertility, poor
planting material, uneconomic small blocks and highly unstable prices.
The revival of the smallholder cocoa industry will depend on an efficient
extension service, an active research program to identify suitable high
yielding varieties, and an efficient price stabilization scheme.
3.  Taro
R17..      Taro is the staple in the Western Samoan diet. Annual per
capita consumption is estimated at 365 pounds, which indicates an annual
production of approximately 25, 000 tons, some of which is traded in the
Apia market. There has been a growing overseas demand for taro in
recent years. During the period 1975-1979, the quantity exported increased
from 19, 853 cases to 130, 664 casesL/ and was an important foreign exchange
earner. As a staple food crop and a relatively high priced, quick return
cash crop, taro production is given high priority by farmers.
4. Bananas
48.        Banana is another important source of food. Domestic con-
sumption accounts for the major part of total production. From a peak
export volume in 1969 of almost 16 million pounds, exports have fallen to
less than 2. million pounds in recent years. This was a result of severe
hurricane damage in 1966 and 1968 and the subsequent inability of the
producers to re-establish their plantations and to control banana diseases.
In addition, the lack of fertilizer to counteract the rapid depletion of soil
fertility caused by the cultivation of bananas has led to lower yields.
1/ A case contains approximately 70 pouiids.



6-
5. Cattle
Western Samoa has an estimated 20, 000 head of cattle, of
which about 8, 000 are owned by smallholders and 12, 000 by WSTEC. The
:cattle are mainly Hereford crosses, and are acclimatized to local con-
ditions. The Government wishes to expand the national herd so as to
reduce the imports of meat.
D. Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation
1. General
Zt0...     The Western Samoa Trust Estates Corporation (WSTEC) owns
30, 000 acres, or 18 per cent of the country' s total cultivated area of
170, 000 acres, and is the largest enterprise in Western Samoa. It is
wholly-owned by the Government and is headed by a Board of six directors,
appointed by the Head of State, and is chaired by the Prime Minister. The
administrative powers of the Board are delegated to a General Manager
(GM).1/
2. Agricultural Enterprises
Z&.        The Government regards WSTEC as the leader of the agriculture
sector. It expects it to set the pace by developing and demonstrating pro-
gressive crop asnd'animal husbandry practices. WSTEC's 8major involvement
is with plantations. It has 14 estates on Upolu containing approximately
20, 000 acres of plantation, and is develop;Pg about 10, 000 acres on Savai'i
I3land with the assistance of an IDA creditS/
22.        WSTEG cultivates about 10, 000 acres of coconut. All the area
under coconut is either grazed or undercropped with cocoa or coffee.
WSTEC has about 2, 400 acres under cocoa cultivation, of which part is
grown as a pure stand, with yields averaging about 300 pounds per acre..
However, the cocoa is generally senile, too thinly planted, and because
sit is mostly grown without shade, suffers from over-exposure to sun.
WSTEC grows. about 333 acres of coffee, of which 318 acres are of the
poor quality, "li'bericall variety. The coffee is all-consumed in Western
Samoa. The ne.ct most important WSTEC enterprise to coconut is cattle.
%/ The organization of WSTEC is given in Appendix 1.
/ IDA credit No. 951 WSO,'1979.



-7..
The total cattle population on WSTEC properties is about 12, 000 head,
which comprises 60 per cent of the national herd. The e"tates used for
cattle grazing need drinking water supplies,. -pasture improvement and
fencing. .eneral stock ma-nagement also needs improvement.
3. Non-Ar      ral Enterprises
23.        The non-agricultural enterprises of WSTEC include a soap
factory, a coconut stem utilization plant, a retail store, a service station
and an engineering shop. Whilst the soap factory is essentially export
oriented, the other facilities serve WSTEC and the general public. From
an organizational point of view, these activities are contained in a separate
administrative unit and do not conflict with the agricultural enterprises.
Opportunities for increasing revenues and profit margins for the corpora-
tion by the manufacture of soap and thr processing of coconut-wood by-
products were studied by consultants.!/ The recommendations made to
expand these facilities have been adopted and appropriate provisions have
been made in the Project.
4. Marketing
24..       WSTEC utilizes the services of the Copra Board, Cocoa Board,
Banana Board and the Produce Marketing Board to market its -produce.
It also markets some cocoa directly through brokerage houses in London,
New York, Auckland and Sydney, and so frequently secures a higher price
for its better quality produce than does the Cocoa Board for the lower
quality smallholder cocoa. Cattle are slaughtered at its own abbatoir, and
the meat is sold on the domestic market through the Corporation's own
retail points and other retail traders. WSTEC' s meat processing and
marketing facilities in Apia are also used to market pork and pork products
such as bacon and ham.
5. Financial Position and Performance
S5        Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1973-1978 are
presented in Appendix 2. (The audited financial statements for 1979 were
not available at the time of appraisal). The main aspects of WSTEC' s
operation and performance over-these years are as follows:
(i) WSTEC has generated significant profits each year
during this period and now has a net annual profit
j/ T.A. No. 308/79: WSTEC Agricultural Development Project II.



of .abou2 ."', 1r  . 0 =Dmillion;
(ii) Net profit before tax expressed as a return on total
capit3- employed ranged from a low of 3. 6 per cent
in L973 to 20. 2 per cent in 1977, the year in which
cocoa prices reached a peak;
(iii) The increase in total assets from WS$3. 0 million to
WS$6. 5 has been financed primarily from retained
earnings, resulting from corresponding increases
in production and revenue during these years;
(iv) WSTEC' s capital structure is basically sound, however,
in recent years its liquidity position has weakened as
it undertook new development projects on Upolu and
Savai'i, without immediate cash returns. The liquidity
position is not likely to improve until the impact of
these projects is translated into increased yields and
earnings. The current ratio over the period varies
from a high of 16:1 in 1976 to a low of 1.8:1 in 1978; and
(v)  The WSTEC management recognizes that it needs assist-
ance to develop its long-term financial planning, budgeting,
treasury and cash management functions. WSTEC requested
that a suitable consultant should be provided under the
Project and the Mission considers this is imperative to
ensure the success of WSTEC's new development projects
on both Upolu and Savai' i;
E. Agricultural Surport Services
26.        The Department of Agriculturelynd Forests (DOA) is under
the control of the Minister of Agriculture. _ The DOA, which is mainly
responsible for resea. ch and extension to the smallholder sector, receives
priority in developmen, expenditure for the Government is convinced that
the development of land holds the greatest potential for the future. How-
ever, the level of achievement in the agricultural sector has been dis-
appointing. !  This poor performance can be attributed mainly to a shortagt
1J See Appendix 3 for the Organization Chart of the Department of
Agriculture.
A! The 1980 Budget Statement, Government of Western Samoa, Minister
of Finance, November 1979, p. 14.



-9
of trained scientific staff and appropriate back-up facilities for research
and extension.
1. Research
27.        The DOA was reorganized tvo years ago and the new organiza-
tional structure appears satisfactory. The position of Assistant Director -
Research and Technical Services has been established but remains vacant.
The College of Agriculture at Alafua was the research arm of DOA until
1977 when the College became the School of Agriculture of the University
of the South Pacific and its emphasis was changed from providing the entire
natioxnal research effort to regional needs, thereby reducing the benefits
derived up to that time by Western Samoa.
28.        The main shortcomings of the Research and Technical Services
Division! of DOA are the lack of trained personnel and the lack of co-
ordination of research activities. There are few Samoan's trained in
agricultural science and most of their activities have been directed to non-
research matters, such as plant propagation, plant protection and Lr -leasing
livestock breeding stock to farmers. The need for some expatriate staff
over the next five to ten yeyr is clear because of the shortage of Samoans
with the requisite training.-
29.       Research has been conducted hitherto on an ad hoc basis with
no coordination between projects. There is no focus on adaptive research
and consequenJly there are weaknesses in the extension service. Several
bilateral agencies and UNDP have established support programs for DOA
in agronomy, plant protection and livestock husbandry. The facilities
established under these programs at Nu'u, together with the research
facilities provided to WSTEC under the Banlc loanlZ at the same location,
have been largely used for annual crops research work. The Mission
believes that research into annual crops should be strengthened; meaning-
ful research on perennial crops should be initiated; and opportunities for
scientists to conduct adaptive research in different agroclimatic regions
of the two islands should be provided.
j See Appendix 3, page 2 for the Organization Chart of the
Research and Technical Services Division.
i/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 4.
j/ Loan No. 338-SAM(SF): WSTEC Agricultural Development Project.



10o
2. Extension
30.      The Agricultural Extensoion Division is the principal field arm
of DOA, and is responsible for direct contact with farm families.  The
organization and staffing of the Dlivision (see Appendix 3, page 3) was
recently reorganized, particularly at the Agricultural Officer (AO)level,
to decentralize supervision and management. If fully staffed, the
division would have 31 field assistants (FA's) and ten district field
officers (DrO' s). At present, 12 posts at different levels of the
extension service are unfilled.
31.      Both within and outside DOA, the Agricultural Extension
Division is reported to be the weakest division in the department.
Observations on field visits  and interviews bear out this assessment.
The division-does not currently have a program or professional staff
capable of mounting an extension program designed to modernize
agriculture.
32.      Research, the results of which benefit farmers, particularly
smalholders, is fragmentary and falls short of critical needs.  In short,
research and extension are inadequately planned and coordinated. Attempts
to influence the farmers to adopt improved, income-increasing practices
are disjointed.  The extension agent often selects parts of a package of
prLctices though the benefits can be derived only from the ful. package.
33.      The DOA has difficulty in recruiting qualified staff for extension
and research due to the unattraitive terms of service relative to other
agricultural sector employers.-' Only two or three persons have had any
formal training in extension methodology. With very few exceptions,
extension staff have only received a primary school education. There is
a lack of facilities for in-service training for field staff which exacerbates
the problem of staff quality.  Further, a lack of transportation and housing
have become major constraints to pro4Viding an effective service.
3. Education
24.      Agricultural education is provided at two levels in Western
,c moa, at the junior secondary high school level, and at the university
level, through the School of Agriculture of the University of South
Pacific (USP), which is located at Alafua on the outskirts of Apia. USAID
is providing financial assistance to ttie School of Agriculture of USP for
it:- regional training needs. The Australian Government has provided
facilities at the Secondary Teacher's College to train teachers in agri-
cultural science. A comprehensive program has been drawn up; an
agricultural laboratory is being constructed; and field plots are being
developed under the Australian Aid Program. An appropriate junior
secondary high school curriculum based on Samoan conditions is also
d/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 7.



being developed. Some schools already have facilities for practical work,
and with additional assistance, all schools could be provided vi th the
necessary facilities.
35.        The USP' s School of Agriculture has been offering a three-year
course leading to a diploma for some years, and in 1977 it began offering
a degree course in agriculture. Teachers are recruited from all over the
Pacific area and their performance has been gernerally good, although their
usefulness is limited by their very short assignments. At presqnt about
30 people receive diplomas or degrees each year, about 50 per cent of
them are Samoans.
4.  Credit
36.        The Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS), which was
set up in 1974 with Bank assistance!!, is the only development financing
institution in the country. The Bank has been the largest single sourccp of
funds for DBWS, and has so far provided loa:- is totalling $8. 0 million' 4 and
two technical assistance grants.
37.        The type of guarantee required for loans is determined by tke
size of the loan and the purpose for which it is obtained. Interest rates
range from 8 to 10 per cent for agricultural loans, and 9 to 12 per cent for
industrial loans. In the first five years of its operations, about 62 per
cent of DBWS' s total lending (WS$13. 4 million) has been for agriculture,
mainly to smallholder farmers. About 90 per cent of these agricultural
loans were for less than WS$500, and they represent 43. 7 per cent of the
total amount of agricultural loans.
:38.       DBWS is participating in the village development program,
which is the most important rural development project in the country. This
program is designed to foster agricultural development at the village level
and is financed 60 per cent by government grant, 35 per cent loan from
Sj T. A. No. 80-SAM, 11 January 1973
i/ Loan No. 218-SAM(SF), 18 March 1975; Loan No. 287-SAM(SF),
21 December 1976; and Loan No. 366-SAM(SF), 21 November 1978.
.t/ T. A. No. 137-SAM, 18 March 1975 and T. A. No. 185-SAM,
16 December 1976.



- 12 -
DBWS and 5 per cent by the village.  DBWS is at present emphauizing
short-term agricultural lending for annual crops to improve its liquidity
position and to bring about more rapid improvement in rural areas.
5. Input Supplies
39.      The Agriculture Store, which was set up in 1975, is the
national agency for inaporting and distributing all agricultural inputs.
The store is managed by a Board chaired by the Minister of Agriculture
and is operated as a non-profit organization. Its main facilities are
in Apia, but its facilities at Salelologa on Savai'i are being substantially
expanded.  The Agriculture Store provides physical inputs, such as
fertilizer, chemicals and small farm implements at subsidized prices
to the smallholder farmers. Sales amounted to WS$1. 05 million in
1979, but the store is handicapped by inexperienced management and
irregular shipping services. Recent bilateral aid support is expected
to improve the efficiency of the Agriculture Store.
6. MBrketing Agencies
40.      The marketing of copra, cocoa and bananas is handled by
specialized boards managed by interministerial committees.  The
marketing of other agricultural crops (mostly taro) is handled by the
Produce Marketing Division of the Department of Economic Development.
The Copra Board, which was established in 1948, and the Cocoa Board,
which was inaugurated in 1972, act as the final buyer for copra and
cocoa, which are subsequently exported. At each point along the chain
of delivc fy, the Boards determine, on the basis of prevailing world
prices, the pricesto be paid to the producers or agents. With the
commissioning of the  oconut Oil Mill, which is being constructed
with Bank assistance , the Copra Bo4yl will cease to be an exporter
of copra and will instead sell directly Jto Samoa Coconut Products Ltd.,
which will operate the Mill and export the oil.
41.      The Banana Board, which was established in 1976, is respon-
sible for the collection and transport of bananas from the grower to
the wharf in Apia for export. It provides all cases and packing
materials as well as haulage, handling and inspection. The Produce
Marketing Division exports all items which are not covered by the
marketing, boards. These include taro, taamu, fresh coconuts, fruitsi
and proceseed produce.
j Loan No. 328-SAM(SF): Coconut Oil Mill Project.
i/ The Copra Board's selling price to Samoa Coconut Products Ltd. will
be based on the fob Apia copra price (Loan Agreement No. 328-SAM(SF),
Schedule 6, para. 3) which is consistent with the current method of
determining prices paid to copra producers.



- 13 -
42,        The inefficiency and high cost of transportation affect the
supply of inputs and marketing. The demand for efficient transportation
will increase in response to increased agricultural exports. An important
recent development has been the establishment of the Pacific Forum Line
(PFL), a skhipping concern owned by the governments of New Zealand,
Western Samoa and other Pacific Islands. PFL has two ships in operation,
which have substantially expanded transport capacity, improved transport
schedules and lowered transportation costs, by introducing competitive
rates. PFL will be a vital element in Western Samoa's agricultural develop-
ment.
7. Road Infrastructure
43.       A satisfactory basic road network exists on both Upolu and
Savaili. Roads are built and improved by the Special Projects Development
Corporation (SPDC) and maintained by the Public Works Department (PWD).
SPDC is an autonomous public entity established in 1974 to handle all road
building and improvements and is not restricted by civil service regulations.
SPDC has performed well since its inception. PWD' s road maintenance,
however, is not satisfactory and a major effort is required to plan, organize
and fund a road maintenance program. PWD has started receiving technical
and financial aid from bilateral sources and this should help it to improve
its performance.
F. External Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
44.       The following are the main ongoing projects and programs in
the Agricultural Sector being implemented with assistance from multi-
lateral and bilateral sources:
(i) Asian Development Bank!/
45.       In December 1977 the Bank approved a loan for $3. 0 million to
Western Samoa for the rehabilitation of six WSTEC estates on Upolu. The
main components of the Project included the improvement of infrastructure
and management practices; establishment of an agricultural research station;
4/ W5TEC Agricultural Development Project - Loan 338-SAM(SF), 1977;
Coconut Oil Mill Project - Loan 328-SAM(SF), 1977; Development
Bank of Western Samoa  T.A. 80-SAM 1973, Loan 218-SAM(SF) 1975,
T.JA. 137-SAM 1975, T.A. 185-SAM'1976, Loan 287-SAv(SF) 1976,
Loan 366-SAM(SF) 1978.



14 -
machinery for road improvement and maintenance; provision of necessary
product processing facilities for cocoa and copra; assistance for project
implementation, operation and maintenance; and provision of fellowships
for overseas training of local staff.
46.        To improie the foreign exchange earning, capacity of the coconut
industry, the Bank approved a loan of $2. 2S million in December 1977 for
the establishment of a copra crushing mill for coconut oil production.
01.s       The Development Bank of Western Samoa set up with Bank
assistance in 1974 is the only development financing agency in the country.
Agricultural lending has been a major activity of DBWS, accounting for
about 62 per cent of the total loans.
(ii) The World Bank
46.        In 1979 the World Bank approved $8. 0 million under an IDA
creditY/ for the development of WSTEC estates on Savai'i. The total cost
of the project is $20. 5 million, the foreign exchange cost component being
$13. 7 million. Co-financing for the Project will be provided by the
Australian Government ($5.4 million), UNDP ($1. 7 million), Japanese
Government ($1. 4 million) and EEC Special Fund ($0. 3 million).
The Project consists of investments in nurseries, imported
improved planting material, and field development of about 2, 400 acres
of coconuts, 2, 130 acres of cocoa and 200 acres of coffee in four WSTEC
estates and selected villages on Savai'i; technical assistance for the above
crops and for agricultural diversification in the WSTEC estates and selected
villages; taro marketing by WSTEC on behalf of villages; estate road con-
struction and development; and project administration,
(iii) FAO/UNDP - Animal Health and
Production Project
50.        This five-year Project commenced in 1977, its objectives are
to expand animal health services; continue applied research in pastures
and livestock production; provide technical support to government, com-
mercial and rural sector livestock production projects; and provide training
for professional and technical staff.
.1/ IDA Credit No. 951 WSO, 1979.



(iv) FAO/DP Coc           rid Seed
Production and Plant Protection
11.        The Plant Protection Project, which was approved in 1977,
provides .for plant protection services, including a laboratory, insectary
and plant house complex to be established at Nu'u Agricultural Research
Station. Advice is being provided on quarantine development, and a
post-entry quarantine house, mist propagator unit and wharfside incinerator
and fumigation facilities will also be constructed. A 45-acre coconut seed
garden of dwarf mother palms has been establinhed under the Program to
provide hybrid seed nuts.
(v) Australian Aid
52.       The Australian Government has a ten-year agreement with the
Government of Western Samoa to undertake research and provide extension
services for the production and processing of cocoa. Under this agreement
a well-equipped laboratory, plant propagation unit, office accOmmodation
and two staff houses at the Nu'u Agricultural Research Station have been
cors tructe4 and two Australian experts are at present engaged in cocoa
research and extension work. The team is to be expanded in the near future.
53.       Australian aid has also been p,r ovided to DBWS for the provision
of beef cattle; for agricultural education , and to support the FAO Plant
Protection Project, through the provision of an additional post-entry quar-
antine house to facilitate increased imports of Amelonado cocoa and Robusta
coffee for WSTEC and DOA.
(vi) Federal Republic of Germany - Plant
Protection Project
54.       The Federal Repu)blic of Germany has provided technical assist-
ance for plant protection. A three-man team, comprising an entomologist
and two pathologists, is working at the USP's School of Agriculture until
laboratory facilities at Nu'u Agricultural Research Station are completed.
An agricultuiral complex at Salelologa on Savai'i, including facilities for
plant protection and extension, is also being built.
j/ See paras. 6 and 34.



(vii) New Zealand Bilateral Aid Program
55.        The New Zealand Bilateral Aid Program has provided technical
and material support for a range of agricultural sector projects during the
past 4 to 5 years. These include the WSTEC Feed Mill, USP' s School of
Agriculture Pig and Poultry Units, Agricultural Store Warehouse, DOA
livestock project, agricultural engineeririg and food processing. In addi-
tion, funds have been provided for the Government' s capital input into the
Development Bank and for the Rural Development Program.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.           and Scope
56.      The overall aim of the Project is to assist the Government in its
efforts to increase agricultural production, export earnings and save for-
eign exchange through a more efficient utilization of its existing resources
and to provide better income and employment opportunities in the rural
sector. The Project is designed to help achieve these objectives through:
(i) providing assistance to WSTEC for the rehabilitation and development
of seven of its estates, the expansion of its processing facilities, and the
improvement of its management system; (ii) providing assistance to DOA
for the provision of-facilities and expertise to strengthen its research capa-
bilities and improve the quality of its extension services, This is in line
with the strategy for SPDMCs . indicated in the South Pacific Agricultural
Survey undertaken by the Bank in 19791~ which emphasizes, among others,
support for the smallholders through the strengthening of agricultural
research, qxtension and management training to increase smallholder
incomes.
B. Project Components
57,      PartA of the Project comprises assistance to WSTEC and hias
the following components:
(i) replanting 1, 000 acres of senile coconuts on one estate
and planting 1, 000 acres of cocoa under coconut on
four estates;
(ii) rehabilitation of seven estates by introducing a fertilizer
application program to existing cocoa and coconuts to
4/ SJuth Pacific Agriculture: Choices and Constraints (South Pacific
Agricultural Survey 1979), Australian National University Press,
1980.
4/ Bank Operations in the Agricultural Sector in the South Pacific -
Working Paper 2-80, Asian Developmert Bank, 20 May 1980.



- 18 -
improve yields  and by providing infrastructure facilities
such as roads, fences, transport, storage sheds, drinking
water, livestock equipment and pasture improvement for
cattle;
(iii) expansion of the existing soap processing facilities; replace-
ment of the coffee processing facilities; improvement and
expanaion of the coconut stem utilization facilities; and
(iv) provision of 108 manmonths of consultants' services for
institution building and project implementation.
58.       Part B of the Project comprises assistance to DOA to improve
its agricultural research and extenision programs and has the following
components:
(i)  establishment of a research facilities network based on the
counLryl s major agroecological regions and the strengthening
of support facilities for the crop experimentation centers on
Upolu and Savai'i, as necessary;
(ii) establishment of a National Agricultural Extension Center,
including training and dormitory facilities and housing for
research and extension personnel at Nutu;
(iii) construction of 21 Field Extension Centers and improve-
ments to two existing Field Extension Centers;
(iv) provision of transport anad other support facilities for the
extension service;
(v) provision of 120 manmoniths of consult'ants' services for
strengthening agricultural researc-h and extension; and
(vi) provision of fellowships for the overseas training of local
research and extension staff (`135 manmonths).
2/ Current WSTEC yields of copra and cocoa are approximately.800
pounds/acre and 300 pounds/acre respectively. Estimated yields
at full development are expected to increase to 1, 500 pounds/acre
and 480 pounds/acre respectively. See Appendix 13, pages 2 to 5,
Tables 1 to 4 for estimated yields.



- 19 -
C. Details of Project Components
Part A : WSTECi/
1. Coconut Replanting
59.        There are approximately 5, 000 acres of coconuts on the seven
estates. It is proposed to replant 1, 000 acres of the oldest palms and
to provide fertilizer for an additional 3, 750 acres.
60.-       Selected seeds from Samoan tails will be used for replanting
1,000 acres of coconuts at Vaipap, at a rate of 200 acres per year, over
a period of five years. Seedlings-' will be, planted under aged palms and
unproductive palms will be selectively thinned as the young palms begin to
produce. (The aged palms will be completely ±emoved over four years..)
This procedure will minimize the adverse effects on production, and hence
income from the estates.
2. Cocoa Planting
61         There are approximately 2, 000 acres of cocoa on the seven
estatesa/ proposed for rehabilitation. About 1, 775 acres are. suitable for
fertilizing. The remainder are too sparse, too old and too diseased.
6Z.        Cocoa production on the estates has declined over the past few
years. Though the decline has been checked through improved management
practicer, it is extremely important for WSTEC to begin replanting. At
the same time, the productive capacity of the present cocoa stands need to
be maintained so as not to affect WSTEC's income. It is, therefore, pro-
posed that 1, 000 acres of cocoa be planted under younger (maximum 30
years) coconut palms on Vaipapa, Tausagi, Faleata and Casala estates and
all existing cocoa considered worthwhile should be fertilV'ed to increase
i/ See Map 2 on page (iii) for location of WSTEC estates and Appendix 5
for facilities to be provided for the estates.
&/ See Appendix 4 for the Land Use Pattern of Seven Estates.
%/ A polybag nursery has already been established.



- 20 -
the income from the present stands of cocoa until they are replanted.
63.       It is proposed to use Amelonado seed imported from the
Solomon Islands, for planting. (Amelonado has proven high yielding prop-
erties and higher Phytophthora [black pod] resistance. ) The DOA has
established quarantine facilities which will have sufficient capacity to
handle WSTEC' s requirements.
64.        The replanting program entails thie establishment of a cocoa
nursery (the present nursery at Tuana'imato has to be moved to make way
for the new cocoa factory under the first project), windbreaks where
necessary, fencing and road improvement.
3.  Cattle
65.        Cattle are at presert grazed on Vaipapa, Tausagi and Faleata
estates. This helps control grass and weed growth among the coconuts
and provides income for WSTEC. The water supply on those estates is
inadequate and the handling facilities and pasture need improvement. There
is considerable scope on sections of Faleata (490 acres) and Vaipapa (300
acres) to improve the pasture, to provide water for cattle, and allow for
fattening of young stock for slaughter.
66.        Under the first project, cattle management on WSTEC estates
improved considerably, but the fattening areas for young stock need to be
increased. This c n. be done by providing improved pasture, water and
handling facilities.1' Under the Project, 790 acres of pasture on Vaipapa
and Faleata will be improved by fertilizing and by planting selected pasture
species; drinking water will be provided by tapping existing bores and
reticulating water to troughs in paddocks; and handling facilities will be
improved by providing weighing scales, cattle crushes, special cattle
trucks, It,:. These additions will considerably increase the carrying
capacity  and the number of steers and heifers that can be fattened on
these estates.
j/ The Mission has taken into consideration the findings and recommenda-
tions of the Project Performance Audit Report (PE-27[AU]L68-SAM)
on the Beef Cattle Pilot Project - Loan No. 68-SAM(SF), approved
29 May 1971.
Acres per livestock unit.
2/ See Appendix 13, page 6, for increases in carrying capacity.



4. Estate Rehabilitation
67.       The Mission considers that fertilizer application is an integral-
part of the estate rehabilitation .program. The Government has given an
assurance th , the fertilizer application program will be continued after
the Project.
68.       Upgrading of existing buildings and the construction of addi-
tional structures (such as housing, offices and stores, copra and tractor
sheds) will be provided at each estate, as necessary. Eleven miles of
new roads will be constructed and 38 miles of existing roads will be up-
graded. Twenty miles of new fencing will be erected and 68 miles will be
refenced. A total of 16 vehicles (trucks and pick-ups) and six tractors
are to be provided. A water supply for domestic use is also to be provided.
5. General Support Facilities
6.9.      The increase in production of cocoa and copra will necessitate
the construction of cocoa and copra stores at Apia. The new copra store
is also needed for the coconut oil mill, which is being constructed. These
stores will be built on land WSTEC is now reclaiming for a general central
complex at Fugalei in Apia.
6. Soap Processing Facilities
70.       The proposed expansion of the soap factory is designed to:
(i) increase the production of laundry soap from about 1, 000 tons to 1, 500
tons per annum; (ii) increase the production of toilet soap from about 100
tons to 400 tons per annum; and (iii) to introduce the production of soap
powder to a capacity of 400 tons per annum.
71.       The existing soap processing facilities were built in 1966. The
original capacity of the plant was 500 tons per annum on the basis of one
eight-hour shift per day. As demand grew, the capacity was increased by
operating three shifts per day and production now stands at about 1, 000 tons
per annum. Toilet soap production was introduced in 1967 and some 30 to
40 tons have been produced each year.
;/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 3.
8/ See AVptbndix 5 fibr fvilities to be provided at each estate.
j   Set Appen4ix 5-,. 'p4ge 4-5, for faciliWiet to be provided for
th  So4  Processing P'acilities.



i2.       The factory produces its own coconut oil by means of an ex-
peller. Surplus quantities of coconut oil are exported. With its present
capacity of about 1, 000 tons per year, the soap factory has reached its
maxinaum capacity, as production is dependent upon the steam boiler
capacity, soap pans, pumps, tanks and vacuum plodder. Most of the
existing machinery is in urgent need of repair.
73.       The equipment and machinery for the expansionr will be modern,
but not automated to the extent that would make it susceptible to production
losses because of minor technical breakdowns. Parts of the old plant will
be integrated into the new production lines. While the new facilities are
being installed, the existing production lines can continue operating so
there will be no loss in production or revenue during installation of the new
plant.
74.       The equipment and machinery to be provided for the production
of laundry soap will have a greater capacity and will also allow soap powders
and detergents to be produced on the same line.
7?.       The proposed new toilet soap line is planned to meet an ever-
increasing demand for better toilet soap with an increased content of
coconut oil. WSTEC have sold toilet soap in Hawaii, Australia and New
Zealand. With an improved product that meets the quality requirement of
these markets, a large export potential is foreseen. By the same token,
local demand should rise dramatically due to the recent import restrictions
introduced by the Government. It is proposed gradually to increase pro-
duction of toilet soap to a maximum of 400 tons per annum.
7*.       A completely new line is proposed for the manufacture.of soap
powder and detergents. In Western Samoa, there is an increasing demand
for soap powder products. At present, soap powder is being imported frorn
Fiji, Australia, Great Britain and New Zealand. The proposed production
of soap powders and detergents will be done by means of a Spray Mixing
Plant. A maximum capacity of 400 tons per annum from the new line is
proposed. In addition, the laundry soap line could be converted also to
produce soap powder and detergents as demand dictates,
7. Coconut Stem Utilization Facilities}
MI-7.     The proposed expansion of the sawing facilities and the pressure
treatment plant will enable the processing of coconut stems that will be
j/ See AppendixS, .'page ,5, - Ir .1acilities to. be provided Ior tbe
Cbcondt Stem Utlivtion Facilities.



- 23 -
felled from the coconut thinning program (see paragraph 60). The mill
will be capable of producing each year about 250, 000 board feet of lumber,
of which half would be exportable, and 430, 000 board feet would be fence
post materials. It will produce as a by-product 90-120 tons of fuelwood
from lumber slabs and trimmings, and 30-50 tons of charcoal.
78.       Equipment to be provided under the Project includes a circular
headrig, which will break the coconut log for further cutting on the present
benchsaw; a rail-mounted log carriage; a log truck equipped with a crane
and winch; a delivery truck; chainsaws; as well as spares and accessories.
The existing pressure treatment plant and benchsaw will be rehabilitated.
A building to house the headrig and complementary equipment, a sawshop
and a fungicide treatment vat will be constructed. The present mill site
at Vaitele will also be improved to facilitate operations, particularly during
the wet season.
8. Replacement of Coffee Processing Facilities
79.       The existing coffee hullers at Tuana'imato, which are housed
in the old cocoa factory, are obsolete and need to be replaced. Under the
proposed Project, a new coffee huller and tower drier are to be installed
in the new cocoa factory now being erected at Tuana'imato. They will
have a capacity of 150 tons of parchment, which will be adequate to handle
current and-1 planned coffee production.
9. Consultants' Services /
80.       Large new development activities on Upolu and Savai'i are to
be undertaken by WSTEC with external assistance over the next-five years.
Certain areas of WSTEC' s management will therefore need to be strength-
ened and the proposed Project provides for a total of 108 manmonths of
consultants services. These consultants will undertake certain specific
tasks and will also give on-the-job training to their counterparts and other
local staff.
81.        The consultants for institution building will have expertise in
the fields of financial controllership (24 manmonths) and general plantation
administration (24 manmonths). Three consultants with experience in
cocoa estate management (24 manmonths), coconut estate management
(24 manmonths) and sawmill management (12 manmonths) are proposed
i/ See Appendix 6 for the Terms of Reference of the Consultants.



-24
to assist with the expeditious and efficient implementation of the Project.
Part B: Department of Agriculture and Forests
82.       This part of the Project provides facilitiesi/and expertise to
strengthen the country's agricultural research capabilities and to improve
its agricultural extension services on both Upolu and Savai'i Islands. Its
components are:
Agricultural Research
1. Crop Experimentation Centers
83.       Western Samoa has two main agroecological zones: a wet zone
and a dry zone. With the setting up of the Central Agricultural Research
Station at Nu'u through assistance from the Australian and West German
Governments and the research facilities provided to WSTEC under a
previous project, the country will have adequate facilities for research into
dry zone agriculture. However, facilities need to be provided for the
scientists working at the Nu'u Agricultural Research Station so they can
conduct field experiments at other sites. The Project therefore provides
for the strengthening of facilities for adaptive research and for demonstra-
tion plots at the crop experimentation centers at Togitogiga on Upolu, and
at Asau on Savairi. The research activities to be provided under this Project
will complement and not duplicate any efforts now being undertaken by DOA,
WSTEC or any bilateral aid agencies and are directed to the national needs,
since the regional requirements are being met by the School of Agriculture
of USP at Alafua.
2. Consiultants' Services.i/
84.       A team of two agronomists with experience in applied research
will be provided to spearhead a program of accelerated agricultural develop-
ment. At present, the only concerted research work is in relation to cocoa,
but there is an urgent need to undertake research work on agronomic
practices for coffee.
j/ See Appendix 5, page. 6,, fox facilities to be provided for Agricultural
Research and Extension.
&/ See Appendix 6 for the Terms of Reference of the Consultants.



- 25
85.       A Tree Crop Agronomist is to be provided for 36 manmonths
to undertake research into coffee and to investigate the potential for other
crops such as rubber, palm oil and spices and a Banana Agronomist is to
be provided for 36 manmonths t conduct agronomic investigations on
bananas and other fruit crops.
Extension Services
1. National Extension Training Center
86.       An extension training center, including dormitory facilities
for 25 people and housing for the Extension Program Organizer, is to be
provided at the Nu'u Agricultural Research Station. Short term in-service
training programs covering modern farm production and processing tech-
niques will be conducted for field extension workers, agricultu'ral officers
and key farmers.
2. Field Extension Centers~/
87.       There are 30 extension districts, each covering about 700 farm
famiilies, but only nine hav.e "Extension Stations" (i.e., office, store,
house and demonstration plot) and only seven have adequate facilities. The
extension officers serving 21 districts do not have a base and often have to
live outside their districts. This is obviously unsatisfactory and the problem
is exacerbated because transport is not provided for these officers. It is
therefore proposed to construct 21 new extension centers, to upgrade the
facilities of two centers, and to provide transport facilities so as to improve
the agricultural extension service.
.  C/
3.  Consultant Services
88'.      The extension staff is poorly trained and its management needs
improvement. An Extension Program Organizer is therefore to be provided
for 48 manmonths to conduct suitable training programs and to orientate
1/ There is at present a lack of information available on basic agronomic
practices relating to bananas.
2/ See Appendix 7 showing the location of existing and proposed field
extension centers.
3/ See Appendix 6 for the Terms of Reference of the Consultants.



- z6
the activities of this essential agricultural development support service to
farmer edcation. An extension system based on the "training and visit
sy.stem"-' where the scope of the training and interaction with farmers
would be continuous and carried out over specific periods of time will be
introduced.
4. Training - FellowshiRs
89.        Because of the shortage of trained research and extension staff,
overseas training is to be provided for local staff. Provision of 120 man-
months of training at various suitable levels in fields not available at USP
are to be provided under the Project. Fifteen manmonths of short-term
research and extension training at appropriate locations, depending on
specific needs, are also to be provided. The Consultants for the Research/
Extension component will be expected to make recommendations about the
type of training and its duration and to supplement overseas training. The
consultants would be required to provide substantial on-the-job training
to staff as appropriate.
D. Project Costs
The total cost of the P oject, including provisions for physical
contingency and price escalation. /, is estimated at $10.8 million, of which
$7. 0 million represents foreign exchange costs and $3.8 million local
currency costs. Details of the cost estimates of the Project are given in
Appendix 8 and summarized in Table 1.
i/ Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System, Daniel
Benor and Jamep Q. Harrison, World Bank, May 1977.
~/ See Appendix 13, page 31 for contingency factors used.



- 27 -
-      Estimtedroect Costs
($'000)
Foreign     Local     Total
PART A: WSTEC
I.   Facilities by Estate
Vaipapa                               275       386        661
Tausagi                               120       135        255
Faleata                               152       161        313
Casala                                 91        98        189
Tuana' imato                          164       123        287
Lesea                                  36        54         90
Tafaigata                              .84       74        163
Sub-total I                       922     1, 036     1, 958
II.   WSTEC Overall                         156        84        240
III.  Soap Processing                        765       64        829
IV.   Coconut Stem Utilization              127        27        154
V.    Planting Cocoa                        257       278        535
VI.    Fertilizer                            669       239        908
VII.   Water Supply                          196        21        217
VIII.   Consultants                           478        91        569
Sub-total (I-VIII)              3, 570    1, 840     5, 410
Physical Contingencies                385       241        626
Price Escalation                    1, 045      685      1, 730
TOTAL - PARTA                   5, 000    2, 766     7,766
PART B    AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND EXTENSION
I.    Civil Works                           381       336        717
II.   Vehicles                                85         9        94
III.   Machinery & Equipment                   67        4         71
IV.    Operations & Maintenance              120        79        199
V.    Consultants                            657       273       930
VI.    Overseas Training
Fellowships                          164       -         164
Sub-total (I-VI)                1,474       701      2, 175
Physical Contingencies                 177       140       317
Price Escalation                       349       181       530
TOTAL - PART B                  2,000     1,022      3,022
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (A ' B)         7, 000    3, 788    LO, 788



- 28
E. Financing Plan
91.      It is proposed that the Bank finance $3.0 million apd the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) and IDA22 each
$2. 0 million of the foreign exchange cost of $7. 0 million. The proDosed
Bank loan is to be made available from the Bank's Special Funds re-
sources at a service charge of 1 per cent with a  epayment period of
40 years, including a grace period of 10 years. r /
IDA Credit
92.      IDA has agreed to co-finance the Project /; the Bank will
be responsible for the administration of IDA funds with disbursement
arrangements such a-- will afford maximum flexibility in the use of
such funds and the least administration burden for the Bank. A s the
estimated cost of Part B of the Project -- the Agricultural Research
and Extension part -- amounts to $2. 0 million, for ease of loan ad-
ministration and so as to involve only one Executing Agency (DOA) with
IDA funds, the Mission proposed and the Government agreed that the
IDA credit be used entirely to finance the foreign exchange cost of
Part B of the Project.
ADAB Grant
93.      At the request of the Government, the Mission identified
appropriate components for ADAB co-financing.  These were discussed
with the Government and the Australian auLhorities in Apia. The cost
of the components identified, including contingencies, amounts to $2. 0
million (see Table 2). ADAB will administer its own funds under
arrangements which are to be concluded between the Government and
ADAB and which are to be satisfactory to the Bank.
j/ See Appendix 10 for Loan Allocation by Category and Source of Funds.
g/ ADAB has agreed in principle to finance $2. 0 million on a grant
basis and IDA has agreed in principle to provide a $2. 0 million credit.
/ Western Samoa qualifies for loans from Special Funds resources
under the criteria laid down in "A Review of Criteria for Lending
from the Asian Development Fund", Doc. R83-77, Revision 1,
Final, dated 14 September 1977.
i/ See ADB-World Bank Co-financing in the South Pacific, Doc.
IN-149/80, dated 25 Septetnber 1980.



29
Table 2: Cornonents for ADAB Co-Financin ($'000)
Components        Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Total
Fertilizer              12       147      158      170      182      669
Planting Cocoa          37       44        52      59       66       258
Water Supply            149       46       -        -       -        195
Coconut Stem Utiliza-
tion Facilities      127       -                                  127
Storage Sheds           -         69       -        -        -        69
Contingencies           109      136      119      148      170      682
Total                  434      442       329      377      418   2 00
Local Currency Costs
94.        The Government has given an assurance that the funds required
in addition to those provided by ADAB, IDA and the Bank, sht be made
available promptly as needed for carrying out of the Project. In the
case of PartAof the Project -- assistance to WSTEC -- since WSTEC is
a viable commercial enterprise, it will itself provide the necessary local
currency amounting to $2. 8 million over the project period of five years
from its retained earnings. The financial projections for WSTEC have
been examined and this indicates that WSTEC shou)Jd be able to meet the
local currency requirements from its cash flow.Z In the case of Part B
of the Project, the Government agreed to make the necessary annual budget
allocations for DOA to meet the local currency requirement of $1. 0 million
over the project period of five years.
F. Relendin Arrangemeats with WSTEC
95.        The Government will relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
WSTEC in accordance with the provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
which will be concluded between the Borrower and WSTEC on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.2I/ The Government agreed to relend
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to WSTEC for a period of 20 years,
4/ Loan Agreement, Section 4.02.
&/ See Appendix 12 for WSTEC' s Projected Financial Statements, 1979-
2006, and Project Agreement, Section 2. 02.
j Loan Agreement, Section 3.0 l(b).



- 30 -
.with a grace period of 5 years, at t1 Bank's current rate,for loans
from its ordinary capital resources.
G. Environmental Impact
96.          The Project will not have any deleterious environmental
effect. A beneficial environmental impact will result through the
disposal of senile coconut stems. At present about 3,000 coconut
stems need to be disposed of annually increasing to 12,000 by 1987
and beyond.  Decaying coconut stems provide a natural breeding
ground for coconut pests, particularly the Rhinocerous beetle which
'is a grave threat to all coconut plantations in the country. Clearly,
the economic disposal of coconut stems as envisaged under the Project
will remove this hazard while contributing to the economic develop-
ment of the country.
1/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 5.



- 31 -
IV. PFROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executin3 Agencies
97.        PartA - WSTEC will be the Executing Agency for this part./
Thie Projec, Manager and Project Office established to implement the first
Bank loanJ to WSTEC will be responsible for implementation of this part
of the Project.
98.        WSTEC' s performance in implementing the Bank's first loan,
which was declared effective on 14 April 1978 and is due to be completed by
mid-1983, has been satisfactory. Disbursements and contracts awarded to
31 Augaijv; 14S" amount to $1. 639 miliIQn- ut.,it a loan of $3. 0 million. Much
of the work on the. rehabilitation of the six estates, such as civil works,
procurement of equipment, road building and fencing, has been completed.
Water supply systems are being installed and the pasture improvement and
fertilizer application programs are continuing. Yield responses as envisaged
under the first project loan are beginning to materialize. Construction of
the cocoa processing facilities has started and work on the development of
the Agricultural Research Station is well under way. The Project Office
is well organized and efficient. The Mission is satisfied that WSTEC is
capable and ready to undertake the implementation of its part of this Project
with the assistance of consultants. WSTEC's financial projections3/dem-
onstrate that it is capable of carrying the debt required to undertake this
Project, which will make it a long-term viable and profitable government
enterprise.
99.        Compliance with the Bank's covenants under the earlier loan has
been generally satisfactory, as shown in Appendix 11.
100.      Part B - The DOA will be the Executing Agency for this part.
While the overall responsibility for the implementation of this project
component will rest with the Director of Agriculture, a Project Office
headed by a P-roject Manager and staffed with adequate personnel will be
established. The Project Manager will be at the Assistant Director level,
but because he cannot be released entirely from his departmental duties,
j/ See also paras. 21 to 25 and Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 1(a).
i/ Loan No. 338-SAM(SF): WSTEC Agricultural Development Project.
X/   See Appendix 12 for WSTEC's Projected Financial Statements, 1979-2006.



- 32
the Government has agreed to appoint a full-time Deputy Project Managa7
to carry out the day-to-day tasks involved in implementing the Project.
The Mission considers this arrangement to be satisfactory.
B. Implementation Schedule
101.      PartAwill be implemented over a five-year period according
to the schedule given in Appendix 9.  The coconuts will be planted over
five years at the rate of 200 acres per year, as will the planting of the
1,000 acres of cocoa. The application of fertilizers is to be a continuous
process. Virtually all the equipment and processing facilities will be
purchased during the first year. Civil works, including the water supply,
is scheduled for the first three years, while fencing and road building is
phased on an estateby estate basis ovet' five years.
102.      Part B wili be implemented over a five-year period according
to the schedule given in Appendix 9.  The civil works are of a relatively
simple character and will be undertaken over five years. The Extension
Training Center and the two houses at Nu'u Agricultural Research Station
will be constructed during the first year. The construction and upgrading
of the field extension centers will be done over five years, taking into
account the needs of the different regions of the country and implementation
capacity of the Executing Agency.
103.      To avoid any possible delay, the Executing Agency will take
early action to recruit consultants and initiate procurement. The selectioui
of persons for overseas training and decisions about their training programs
will be made during years 1 to 4. This spread is designed to allow newly
recruited staff to gain experience and thus ease any burden created by the
absence of key staff members.
C. Pro cu rement
1. Under the Bank Loan
104.      Procurement of all goods and services financed under the Bi k
loan will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. 1
It is recognized that because of the remoteness of the country and because
many small packages will be involved, international shopping procedures
X Loan Agreement, Section 6, para. l(b).
S/ See Appendix 10 for Loan Allocation by Category and Source of F1'undu.
,j  Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. 2.



- 33 -
will more effectively serve the interests of economy and efficiency./
105.       Civil works financed under the Bank loan, including installation
of the water supply system and road construction, shall be performed by
local contractors engaged by WSTEC or by force account. The planting
material required under the Project shai, be procured in accordance with
sound practices satisfactory to the Bank. -
2. Under the IDA Credit
106.       The procurement of goods and services financed under the IDA
credit will be in accordance with the Bank's procurement procedures.2/
107.      Civil works contracts, except for two modular houses to be
erected at the Nu'u Agricultural Research Staticn, will be awarded to local
contractors. Minor civil works may be undertaken by local contractors or
by force account. To maintain a uniform standard design for the houses at the
Nu'u Agricultural Research Station, the two houses to be erected there are
to be procured from and installed by the manufacturer of the existing houses.
108.      Withdrawals for' all civil works will be allowed at fixed percent-
ages of the total costs of these works and such percentages v11 represent
estimated foreign exchange cost components of civil works.
3. Under the ADAB Grant
lO9T       The procurement of goods and services financed under the
ADAB grant will be in accordance with a.rrangements between the Borrower
and ADAB to be satisfactory to the Bank.
j/ Working Paper No. 6-78, 14 November 1978, A Review of Bank
Operations in the South Pacific DMC' s.
g/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. 5.
2/ See ADB-World Bank Co-financing in the South Pacific,
DQc.IN;-149/80, dated 25 September, 1980.
i/ See Appendix 10 for Loan Allocation by Category and Source
of Funds.



-34-
D. Consultants
1. Under the Bank Loan
110.      The consultants to be financed under the Bank loan will be
selected and engaged on an individual  sis in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
2. Under the IDA Credit
1. llThe consultants whose services are to be financed by IDA, will
be selected and engaged on an individual basis in accordigyce with arrange-
ne    to- be made between the Borrower .and the BankJ in consultation
witg'IDA.
E. Accounts and Audit Reports
1lL.       The Government will maintain, or cause to be maintained,
accounts for the Project. The accounts will be audited internally on a
continuous basis and annually by the Chief Auditor of the Government.
Within six months of the closing date of every fiscal year, the audited
accounts of WSTEC and of the project component administered by DOA
will be submittd to the Bank in such details as the Bank may request from
time to time.
F. Project Benefit Monitoring System
113,      The DOA will be responsible for collecting data and monitoring
in respect of Part B of the Project. The Economic Analysis and Planning
Division of DOA in collaboration with the Extension Program Organizer
consultant will select samples and draw up questionnaires and schedules
for collecting the data required for monitoring and evaluating the benefits
of this part of the Project. A baseline survey to determine the level of
adoption of modern farm technology by smallholders will be conducted
initially, and follow-up surveys and case studies will be instituted, as
9/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2.
2/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, paras. 4 and 5.
3/ Loan Agreement, Section 4. 06(b).



- 35 -
deemed appropriate, to determine the impact of Part B of the Project./
Since the demonstration effects of the WSTEC development on rural people
cannot be unambiguously quantified, no benefit monitoring system is recom-
mended. However, benefits to the organization may be evaluated on the
basis of reviews conducted by Bank staff during and on completion of the
implementation of the Project.
l/ Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 10.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
114.      A primary goal of national policy and an integral component of the
Development Plan (1980-84) is to increase agricultural production, both
for domestic consumption and export. The Project will assist in institution
building and infrastructure development in the dual agricultural sector of
Western Samoa with the object of accelerating agricultural development.
In the dominant smallholder sector, the Project will assist in strengthening
the research and extension capabilities of DOA, which is wholly responsible
for the development and dissemination of improved farming technology. On
the other hand, the support to WSTEC for improvement in its land use,
expansion of the soap processing and coconut stem utilization capacities
will significantly contribute to the development of the plantation sector.
The Project is financially and economically sound and is socially desirable.
A. Benefits to the National Economy
1. Incremental Production
115.      The primary benefits to the economy from the WSTEC component
will be increased productivity resulting in enhanced export earnings from
cocoa, copra, soap products and coconut stem products, and a reduction
in the import of beef. Incremental production per annum at full develop-
ment is estimated at about 1, 100 tons of cocoa valued at $2. 9 million;
1, 400 tons of copra valued at $611, 000; 500 tons of laundry soap valued at
$588, 000; 400 tons of toilet soap valued at $1, 310, 000; 400 tons of soap
powder valued at $1, 882, 000; 250, 000 board feet of exportable grade tiimber;
430, 000 board feet of fence post material; 90-120 tons of fuelwood and 30-50
tons of charcoal from coconut stem utilization facilities valued at $170, 000;
and beef production of 68 tons valued at $60, 000. The total incremental
annual value of the WSTEC component of the Project at full development
and at constant 1980 prices is estimated at $7. 5 million, which could be
expected to have a salutary effect on the balance of payments position of the
country. The impact of the Agricultural Research and Extension component
on incremental production in the smallholder sector, although not easily
quantifiable, can be expected to be substantial, given the low productivity
which prevails.
2. Land Use
1 16.     The Project will substantially contribute to the improvement
in land use on seven WSTEC estates covering 6, 641 acres of the most
productive land in Western Samoa. The replanting of 1, 000 acres of senile



- 37 -
coconut palms and the intercropping of 1, 000 acres of coconut lands with
cocoa will enaeble a better utilization of land and other resources on thLe
existing WSTEC plantations. Fertilizer application on about 3, 750 acres
of coconut land and pasture improvement under coconut will also enable
greater efficiency in the use of available land resources. Given the
dominance of the smallholder sector, the improvements in land use which
could be anticipated frorm a more effective extension service and app]ied
research work would be significant.
3. Agricultural Research
117Q      It is proposed to provide two agronomists to investigate the
potential for the cultivation of commercial crops in Western Samoa such
as rubber, oil palm, spice crops and orchard crops besides examining the
scope for expansion of the existing coffee and banana plantations in Western
Samoa. The potential benefits from such investigations could be very large
in view of the country's dependence on agriculture as the primary source
of foreign exchange and earnings. The establishment of field experimenta-
tion centers at Togitogiga and Asau will facilitate adaptive research work
by scientists at key agroclimatic locations on both islands. In view of the
absence at present of any positive guidelipnes on agronomic practices, it is
anticipated that the potential benefits of providing essential infrastructure
for research will be substantial.
4. Agricultural Extension
118.      The Project will help substantially to strengthen the national
extension service which is at present stifled in its operations due to poorly
trained field level workers and lack of basic facilities. The provision of
a consultant to organize the extension service and to conduct in-service
training programs will help to improve the quality of the field staff. The
establishment of a National Extension Training Center will provide central
facilities for extension training. The provision of 23 field extension centers
with living and working facilities for the field workers, and of support for
transportation could be expected to have a salutary impact on the efficiency
of this essential agro-support service.
5. Manpower Training
119.      One of the most significant contributions of the Project will be
in manpower training at different levels. In the case of the research and
extension component, there should be major improvement in the quality of
staff. Besides on-the-job training which Samoan research scientists and
extension workers will receive from their consultant counterparts, there



- 38 -
are opportunities under the Project for overseas training which are expected
to have a major long-term impact. The extension programs which will be
conducted under the Project and subsequent activities of the field extension
staff are expected to have a major impact on farmers in the country. In
the case of the WSTEC component also, there will be significant on-the-job
training benefits for Samoans through the five consultants to be engaged.
Moreover, the demonstration value of WSTEC as a modern plantation enter-
prise for other large-scale organizations as well as smallholders is signi-
ficant.
6. Economic Internal Rate of Return
20.      The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for Part Aof the
Project is estimated at 19 per cent. This level is considered satisfactory
in view of the substantial secondary benefits of the Project which have not
been quantified. Individual rates of return for the WSTEC estates, Soap
Processing and Coconut Stem Processing sub-components are 19, }5 and
32 per cent respectively, which are also considered satisfactory...! The
economic analysis has been confined to the WSTEC component only, be-
cause of the difficulties of assigning a precise level of benefits to the research
and extension component. Attributing precise levels of primary benefits to
research and extension is ambiguous since it is virtually impossible to
determine what proportion of the benefits expected from improved agricul-
tural practices are due to extension or research alone and what is due to
past efforts in these areas, the purchase of additional inputs or externalities.
121.       The computation of the EIRR has been based on the FIRR cal-
culations adjusted for distortions in the market prices, i. e. shadow wage
rates and duties on export commodities and imported goods. The Project
life has been assumed to be 25 years and the analysis is based on incre-
mental benefits and costs. All traded goods are priced at the relevant
border prices (FOB Apia), while non-traded goods and services are priced
at their respective local market prices and wage rates. The assumptions
of the analysis are given in Appendix 13, pages 30 and 31.
122.       The Project's sensitivity to changes in various aggregate
variables has also been examined.U It is clear that a decrease in benefits
/See Appendix 13, page 42, Table 26.
j See Appendix 13, page 42, Table 27.



- 39 -
(15 per cent), an increase in investment costs (10 per cent), an increase
in operating costs (12 per cent) a one year delay in implementation or a
combination thereof would not adversely affect the viability of the Project.
The sensitivity indicators which range from 0. 19 to 0.51 indicate the
relative stability of the EIRR to variations in the aggregate variables tested.
B. Benefits to WSTEC
1. Financial Internal Rate of Return
123.       The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) to the capital
invested in the WSTEC component is 15 per cent, which is considered
satisfactory. The Project life is assumed to be 25 years and is based on
incremental project benefits and costs. Inputs and outputs are valued at
market prices. The assumptions of analysis are given in Appendix 13, pages
30 and 31.
124.      The individual internal rates of return for the WSTEC estates,
Soap Processing and Coconut Stem Processing subcomponents are 14, 14
and 31 per cent respectively, which are also considered satisfactory
(Appendix 13, page 41, Table 25). The Project's sensitivity to changes in
various aggregate variables have also been examined. It is clear that
decreases in benefits (15 per cent), increases in investment costs (10 per
cent), increases in operating costs (12 per cent), a one year delay in
project implementation or a combination thereof do not adversely affect
the viability of the Project. The sensitivity indicators for the aggregate
variables tested range from 0. 17 to 0. 40 which indicate the relative
stability of the Project to adverse conditions.
2. Overall Profit Contribution
and Financial Position
125.      WSTEC contributes 'n a special manner to the economic develop-
ment of Western Samoa. As a wholly-owned government enterprise, it is
required to transfer its annual unappropriated profits to the Western Samoa
Treasury for the welfare and economic and social benefit of Western Samoa.
WSTEC's ability to generate profits is important to Western Samoa in that
it provides another source of revenue for the Government particularly in
the form of foreign exchange. Over the economic life of the Project (25
years), WSTEC's acfmulated reserves will increase from WS$5. 2 million
to WS$58. 0 million.-'
j/ See Appendix 12 for WSTEC's Projected Financial Statements,
1979 -2006.



- 40 -
126.      Long-term projections demonstrate that WSTEC has the capacity
to carry the debt required to undertake substantial development activities
in the early stages, which will make it a long term viable and profitable
government enterprise and an important contributor to the overall economy
of Western Samoa.
C. Social Imrpact of the Project
1. Benefits to Smallholders
127.      The smallholder sector will benefit from the Project due to the
development of high-yielding varieties and improved cultural practices
which will enhance the opportunities for earning higher incomes from
farming. The establishment of a more effective extension service together
with the strengthening of the applied research capability in the country will
ensure opportunities for higher incomes in the rural sector and better income
distribution in the country. In this regard, the demonstration value of the
WSTEC developments is also expected to have a salutary effect.
2. Employment Effects
128.      About 300 additional permanent employment opportunities in
Western Samoa will be created as a result of the Project. In addition, the
incremental labor demand during Project implementation is about 85, 000
man-days annually. This benefit is of considerable significance to Western
Samoa in view of the growing labor force and under-employment in the
country, particularly since the bulk of the increased demand for labor is in
the part-time or seasonal category, which is well suited to Samoan rural
conditions.



- 41 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
129.      The development of the agricultural sector has been accorded
high priority by the Government of Western Samoa. The Project combines
assistance to WSTEC for the rehabilitation and development of seven ofits
estates on Upolu, expansion of its processing facilities and management
support, with assistance to DOA for the provision of facilities and expertise
to strengthen the country's research capabilities and improve the quality of
the extension service on both Upolu and Savai'i Islands.
130.      The Project is expected to increase the annual production of
copra, cocoa, soap, coconut wood by-products and beef by $7. 5 million
at full development, and will improve the farm incomes of smallholders.
It is expected that the Project will have an impact on virtually two-thirds
of the population who depend on agriculture for their livelihood.
131.      The Project is technically feasible, economically viable and
socially desirable. The organizational and institutional arrangements for
the Project are satisfactory.
132,      The total cost of the Project is estimated at $10.8 million
equivalent, of which $7. 0 million is the foreign exchange cost. Of this
amount IDA and ADAB have agreed in principle to finance $2. 0 million
each on a loan and grant basis respectively. The Bank will administer
the IDA credit and ADAB will administer its own grant funds under an
agreement between the Government and ADAB, satisfactory to the Bank.
133.      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan from its Special Funds
resources in the amount of $3. 0 million. The Borrower will be the
Independent State of Western Samoa.
134.      In addition to the standard provisions and requirements con-
tained in the loan agreements of the Bank, specific assurances were
obtained from the Government and concerned agencies on the following:
(i)  The WSTEC component of the Project shall be carried
out by the Project Office already established to imple-
ment the WSTEC Agricultural Development Project
financed under Bank Loan No. 338-SAM(SF). The
Project Manager of this Project Office shall also be
responsible for the day-to-day activities and execution
of the proposed WSTEC component of the Project
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. l(a));



- 42 -
(ii) Upon loan effectivity, the Borrower shall establish
within the principal office of DOA at Apia, a Project
Office to implement the Agricultural Research and
Extension component.  The Project Office will be
headed by a Project Manager at the Assistant Director
level. The Project Manager will be assisted by a full-
time Deputy Project Manager, who will be appointed
simultaneously with the Project Manager. The Project
Office shall be staffed with adequate technical and
clerical staff (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para.
1 (b));
(iii) The Borrower shall ensure that the goods imported into
Western Samoa by WSTEC for the purpose of the Project
shall be exempted from the payment of customs duty
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 4);
(iv) The Borrower shall take expeditious and appropriate
action to review the position classification of the
extension service personnel of the DOA with a view to
upgrading these positions in order to recruit and retain
qualified extension workers (Loan Agreement, Schedule
6, para. 7);              A
(v)  The Borrower shall ensure that the research facilities to
be established at Vaia'ata and Asau on Savai'i under the
recent IDA loan shall be available to DOA for use as
crop experimentation/extension centers under the DOA
component of the Project (Loan Agreement, Schedule
6, para. 8);
(vi) The Borrower shall appoint a suitably qualified person
to the position of Assistant Director - Research and
Technical Services in DOA, which is established and
remains vacant (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para.
1 (c)); and
(vii) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project facilities
are properly operated and adequately maintained, and
for this purpose, shall make adequate and timely pro-
vision of necessary foreign exchange for the purchase
of materials and spare parts required for the proper
operation and maintenance of all equipment and facilities
of the Project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. 9).



43 -
APPENDIXES
Appni                                                      Page
1       WSTEC Organization Chart                        44
2       WSTEC Financial Statements - 1973-78            45
3       Organization of the Department of Agriculture
and Forests                                   47
4       Land Use Pattern of Seven Estates                50
5       Facilities to be Provided                        52
6       Terms of Reference for the Consultants          58
7       Maps Showing Research and Extension Centers
on Upolu and Savai'i                         63
8       Details of Project Cost Estimates                65
9       Project Implementation Schedule                 76
10       Loan Allocation by Category and Source of
Funds                                        80
11       Compliance with Bank' s Earlier Covenants       81
12       WSTEC' s Projected Financial Statements,
1979-2006                                    83
13       Assumptions and Computations Underlying
Financial and Economic Analyses              86



ORANZATION CHART OF WESTERN SAMOA TRUST ESTATE CORPORATION
GCENES L %IANAGER|
Hi. A- ,z  l Mw. 3.P.
MtDaloEln 3JlV(CNhaLMQAb*U,L        Puawd. Swht T..fduLa  Lqa  fktr I  m l  ..tuf, 1..
L .                     _    _   _
- -                                                                                       - -- u          I
,.                                                                       S f i, "|i : ktmm .:f:'       i. It.qn -I
3.                                      1 rp  - al  C  2                       - . r   -            Q
,                    j,,  u  t.P.  2.,                     I A C       S.-cnUaT  I . flw.,&C           i. -kc S Ai--
.dI  -                                            LaPh.l -  ! 5 1                            J            2  b      I  j,AV
WId- N                                                 -. -W  II
4.                                                          .y(oT)p..W.A. wmI.s
A~~~* P, Ckp i
- Us Auaby
Refere nce in text: page 6, para. 20
5
.   .       .r



WESTERN SAMOA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
INCOME STATEMENTS
-1973-1978
(WS$)
--93          1974                    % 5IV                ._1Z                  1978
X WS$                                                                       %   S$
Gross Margin
CroiP s & Livestock
Coconut                    959769   54  460,995    84   274,595    72   134,660    30      295,611    23     276,153     24
Cocoa                      199304   11  118,193     22   11,367     3    55,278    12      514,273    41     393,256     35
Coffee                        (798) -    (4,580)    (1)  (5,369)   (1)   16,942     4        8,717     1      14,774      1
Banana                        520    -    5,879      1      479     -    11,071     2        5,210     1       21,697     2
Meat & Livestock               6 6. 62) (Z)  2O7 66526                             14      2L6       1        9
102,142  58   567,513   104  2609412     69  284,477     62     916,947     73     801,746     71
Ar-Industries.
Timber                          -    -        -     - .                                    40,922      3      37,050      3
Wood By-Product                 -    -                                                                          1,543     -
Feedmill                                                                                     19403     -       8,980      1
Piggery                                       -     -         -     -         -     -            -     -       6,282      -  h
Hides                       7,149   4    2,831     1       914     -     4,337     1        1,397     -      12,460      1
Store                      13,962    8  (79,503)  (15)   33t897     9   45,519     10      78 092      6      98,895      9
Service Station               737   -    (9,685)   ( 2)   69041     2    29,136     3      42 139      3      179736      2
Engineering Shop            69991    4   11527      2    19685     -    14,768     1       34,636     3      12,616      1
Axfciilary Services         73,208   4     (236)    -    (2,p539)  (1)    3,468     1 )   109,O56      9     118,903     11
Miscellaneous Income       32,075   18   27,144      5   56,164    15   45,547     10 )
Soap Factory               __6n823,81526                                28 858      6      3   62      3      12  12
-6.  __                                              - D    - 1   1
Total -gross Profits         177,128 100   547,060    100  380,389   100  456,090    100   19264,354    100   1,128,923    100
Administration Costs          68                       24  1,0        33   1150                          16     25          23
Margin Before Tax            108t448   61 415,258      76  253,308    67   341,055    75    ltO67,991    84      873,748    77
Tax                           4204     25  217.013    40                                        7.57.3    3       23.93   2  2
Net Profit              -22a.  733      1        3456  2         62  315.405   ,8                          849,816  5a
Profit before tax as
sreturn to total capital-
employed                      3.6%          13%             7.9%            9.3%            20.2%               13.5%        (D
Rents, commissions and interest receivable on bank deposits.
,'/ 9.0% of total cost of sales.
Reference in text: page 7, para. 25



WESER  SAMOA TRUJST E§ZtAES CORPORATIO
BQALACE SHEETS,
1273         1974        1975         1976       1977        1978
Fixed Assets
Estate land and buildings                     1,220,379   1,272,995    1,2839816   1,709,510   2,2149730   3,176,028
Estate plant, equipment & improvements          186,457     185t952      196,799     570,093   1,604,928   2t072,571
Leased land, buildings & improvements           122,961     122,648      122,446        -           -           -
Soap factory buildings and plant                 98,992      929797      90,983         -           -           -
Other lands buildings and equipment             367,849      321,188     282,094                    -           -
Deferred debts owing by Government              433..200        567      3376        32 ,        412 0       228 636
Total Fixed Assets                       23     38   2.333       2 31         260         4 231.668         23
Current Assets
Cash at bank and on deposit                      20,000     125,264      145,385     457,325     1381LO      75t242
Stocks                                          279,538     583,051     576,489      413,904     703,729     752,440
Debtors1 pre-payments, etc.                     295 809     154.011                --213.362
Total Current Assets                                   862.326      8 3. 84   1 0641      1 032
Total Assets                                      3.031.185   31195.473    3           3,671.546   5 24 6J     62468LO08
Liabilities
Current                                         305,992     322,991      111,253      66,286     3159395     540,164
Long-term                                          -                       -            -        255,000     322,129
Share Capital                                 1,221,340   1,221,340   19221,340   1I221,340    1,221,340   1,397,185
Reserves                                      15    8                       .5428
Reevs15                                3.85  1,651j142   1 874--      2383.920    3492,630    4208   30
Total Liabilities and Capital                     3.031.185   3,195.43     3 2.3262 1&46           5243           60
Current Ratio                                    2:1        2.7:1        8:1         16:1        3,3:1      L18:1
Equity (%) (Capital & Reserves: Total Assets)    90%        90%          97%         98%         89%         87%
Fixed Assets/Total Assets                        80%        73%         72%          71%         80%         85%
R e  i
Reference in text:    page  7, para. 25                                                                             N10.
I      I



ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS
CABINE
MINISTER
Department of                                          Department of Agriculture                                            Boards:
Meteorology and Hydrology                                          and Forets                                         Agrostore, Economic Development
DIRECTOR
BOARD AND COMMITTEES
DEPUTY DIRECTOR            DEPUTY DIRECTOR                                                                         I
Banana, Agrostore,
(SAVAI'I)                  IUPOLU)                      b-Aosre
(SAVI'I      (UPLU)Developtnent Bank,
Handicrafts Corp.,
L                                                Land Boards: Stes.,
Agriculture Advisory
Committees
Economic Analysis     Research and       Extension and
and Planning     Technical Services    lnfor-ation      Regulatory Servics      Forestry
Services
L g >
Accounts
Administration                           W
Reference       in  text:     page    8,   para.     26



ORGANIZATION OF THE RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION
Assistant Director
RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL
SERVICES DIVISION
Chief                             Chief                               Chief                              Chief
Livestock Officer                  Crops Officer                     Agricultural Engineer              Food Technologist
LiVETCKSCICOSSCINAGRICULTURAL                                                                FOOD
LIVESTOCK SECTION                   CROPS SECTION                    ENGINEERING SECTION               PRESERVATION SECTION
ri |              Xr                       I                           *1 rI                                         i |1
Senior            Senior          Senior             Senior           Senior            Senior          Senior            Senior
Livestock       Animal Health       Crops         Crop Protection    Agricultural      Agricultural      Project            Food
Officer           Officer         Officer           Officer           Engineer          Engineer         Officer        Technologist
ANIMAL      I      NIMAL           CROP              CROP           SMALL SCALE       LARGE SCALE       PRJCSFOOD
PRODUCTI ON         HALTH         PROTECTION        PROTECTION         AGR..MACH.        AGR. MACH.                      PRE~SRATION
REJSEARCH
Superintendent                    Superintendent                        Supervisor                        Supervisor
ADMIN6STTION                       ADMINIRATION                        ADMINISTRATION                    ADMINSTRATION
OF                                OF                                  OF                                OF                      ' P
LIVESTOCK                            CROP                             TECHNICAL                         TECHNICAL                M -l
FARMS                             FARMS                              SERVICES                          SERVICES                M CD
Reference in text: page 9D para. 28



ORGANIZATION O' THE
EXTENSION AND INFORMATION SERVICES DIVISION
Assistant Director
EXTENSION AND INFORMATION
SERVICES 0IVISiON
ChMf                                                                                                           Chief
Agricultural Officer                                                                                           Agriculturri Officer
SAVAI'I SECTION                                                                                                 UPOLU SECTION
Senior                          Senior                                 Senir                                   Scniu                           Senior
Agricultural Officwr            Agricultural Officer                   Infornatian Officer                     Agricultra Officer              Agricultural Officer
SOUTH-WEST SAVAI'l              NORTH-EAST SAVAI'l                        SRIN ESRMATIO H                             and                        REST OF UPOLU
RAPIA URBAN AREA
Agricbtural        Agricultural  Agricultural      Agricutiuml         Infornmtion         Information         Agicrstuj          Agricultural  Agricultural      Agricultural
Officer            Offir.r       Officer           Officeu Offece                          Offie               Offcer             Officer       Officr            Officer
SAVAI'l            SAI           SAVAI             SAVAII                                                    APIA URA           NOTWS            PLU               UPOLU
1S5UTH                 WEST         NORTH              EAST                AAI 'I                                  AREA               UPL U        EAST               WEST
RpQ
Reference in text: page 10, para. 30



LAND USE PATTERN OF SEVEN WSTEC ESTATES
ON UPOLU AND PROPOSED ACTIVITIES
(Acres)
Total
Tuanal           Tafai-   Project
Vaipapa     Tausagi     Faleata    Casala   imato     Lesea gata       Area
Coconuts
Coconuts & Grass      1, 635       790        1, 128    293        -        -      -      3,846
Coconuts & Cocoa        -           -           -        82      100       150    693     1,025
Coconuts & Coffee             -                 -         17      59        -      -         76
Total             1, 635        790       1,128      392     159        150   693      4,947
Proposed Activities
Replant Coconuts         1,000                                                                1,000
Fertilize Existing
Coconuts                635        790       1, 128     392     159         -     693     3, 797
Pasture Improvement        300                    490                                           790
Cocoa
Mono Cocoa              -            -          -         -     830         74     -        904
Cocoa & Coconuts        -            -          -        82     100        150    693     1, 025
Total                -           -                    82     930        224    693     1, 929    J .
OQ
Proposed Activities
Plant Cocoa                320        350         150       180                               1,000   II
Fertilize Existing Cocoa                                    82     930         74    693      1, 779
Reference in text:  page 19, paras. 59 and 61



k
4                                                                a.K
LAND USE PATTERN OF SEVEN WSTEC ESTATES
ON UPOLU AND PROPOSED ACTIVITIES
(Acres)
Total
Tuana'          Tafai-   Project
Vaipapa      Tausagi    Faleata    Casala    imato    Lesea   gata     Area
Coffee
Mono coffee                                                         75      -      -        75
Coffee & coconuts     -             -         -          17         59       -     -        76
Total                            -         -          17        134      -      -       151
Bananas
Mono Bananas          120           -         -          -         -        25     -       145     Ln
Macadamia (coconuts)      -            -         -         (96)       104       -      -      200
Nutmeg                                 -         -          -           4       -      -        4
Waste Land                180          250       -          32        -         -      -      462
Total Areas of
Plantation          1,935         1,040     1,128       424     1,172      249    693    6,641
a/ The total area of all seven estates is 6, 641 acres, when double counting is excluded.
mI.



- 52 -                      Appendix 5
Page 1
FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED - PART A.: WSTEC
A. VAIPAPA ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a. 8.3 miles new fencing and 27 miles refencing
b. Provision domestic and livestock water supply piping,
tanks troughs, pump and pump house
c. Construct 2 miles new roads and upgrade 5 miles
d. Provide gates and cattle grids
e. Construct managers' and overseers' houses, labor
quarters, office/store, copra shed and copra drier
and tractor shed
2.   Equipment
a. Six-ton cattle truck - 1 unit
b. Nine-ton dump truck - 1 unit
c. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
d. Slasher
e. Fertilizer spreader
f. Spare parts
g.  Livestock equipment
B. TAUSAGI ESTATE
1. Civil Works
a.   4.5 miles new fencing and 15 miles refencing
b. Provision of domestic and livestock water supply tanks,
piping, troughs, pump and pump house
c. Construct 1 mile new road and upgrade 6 miles
d. Provide gates and cattle grids
e. Renovate managers' house, construct labor quarters,
office/store, copra shed and tractor shed
2.   Equipment
a. Six-ton hiside truck - 1 unit
b. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
c. 70 HP tractor - 1 unit
d. Six-ton trailer
e. Fertilizer spreader
f. Spare parts
g. Livestock equipment
R eference in text: page 19, para. 59
page 21, paras.68 and 70
page 22, para. 77.
page 24, para. 82
.  ..- -.-       - --.-... . . - - -



- 53                        Appendix 5
Page 2
C. FALEATA ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a. 2.9 miles new fencing and 11.2 miles refencing
b. Provision of domestic and livestock water supply tanks,
piping, troughs, pump and pump house
c. Construct.2 miles new roads and upgrade 5 miles
d. Provide gates and cattle grids
e.  Build overseer's house, labor quarters, office, copra
shed and copra drier
2.   Equipment
a. Six-ton stakeside truck - 1 unit
b. Nine-ton.dump truck - 1 unit
c. 3/4 ton pick--up - 1 unit
d. 70 HP tractor - 1 unit
e. Six-ton trailer - 1 unit
f. Slasher - 1 unit
g. Fertilizer spreader - 1 unit
h. Spare parts
i. Livestock equipment, dip, crush and head bail, portable
scale and fencing equipment
D. CASALA ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a.  1 mile new fencing and 4.2 miles refencing
b.  Provision of-domestic and livestock water supply tanks,
piping, pump, pump house and troughs
c.  Construct 2 miles new road and upgrade 5 miles
d. Provide gates and cattle grids
e. Build manager's house, labor quarters and office/store
2.   Equipment
a. Three-ton lowside truck - 1 unit
b. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
c. H/D spring release cultivator - 1 unit
d. Slasher - 1 unit
e. 70 HP tractor - 1 unit
f. 3.5-ton trailer
g. Spare parts
h. Livestock equipment



54 -                       Appendix 5
Page 3
E. TUANA'IMATO ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a. 2.1 miles new fencing and 6.3 miles refencing
b. Domestic water supply tanks, piping
c. Construct 1.5 miles new roads and upgrade 6 miles
d.   Provide gates
e. Build overseer's houses, labour quarters and office/store
2.   Eguipment
a.  Six-ton stakeside truck - 2 units
b. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
c. 70 HP tractor - 2 units
d. Six-ton trailer - 2 units
e.  Slasher - 1 unit
f.  Spare,parts
g. Coffee processing equipment
F.  LESEA ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a. 0.5 miles new fencing and 2 miles refencing
b. Domestic water supply tanks, piping, pump and pump house
c.  Upgrade 1 mile of road
d. Provide gates
e. Build manager's house, labour quarters an'd office/store
2.   Equipment
a. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
b. Spare parts
G. TAFAIGATA ESTATE
1.   Civil Works
a. Two-miles refencing
b. Domestic and processing water supply tanks, piping, pump
and pump house
c. Construct 0.5 miles new road and upgrade 6 miles
d. Provide gates
e.  Build overseer's house, labour quarters and office/store



Appendix 5
Page 4
2.   Equipment
a.  Six-ton hiside truck - 1 unit
b. 3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
c. 70 HP tractor - 1 unit
d. Six-ton trailer - 1 unit
e. Slasher - 1 unit.
f. Spare parts
H. WSTEC OVERALL
1.   Civil Works
a. Construction of cocoa and copra storage sheds, banana shed
b. Construct 2 miles new roads and upgrade 4 miles
2.   Equipment
a.  3/4 ton pick-up - 3 units
b. 6 ton hiside truck
c. 70 HP tractor
d. 6 ton trailer
e. Spare parts
I. SOAP PROCESSING
1. Civil Works
a. Factory building (same size and adjacent to the existing
factory building)
b. Mezzanines, floors, walls, woodwork, etc.
2.   Equipment
a. Steam boiler, 2,000 kg/h capacity
b. Jacketed soap storage tank (10,000 liters)
c. Soap granulator (2 ton/hour capacity)
d. Laundry soap finishing line., consisting of:
1 stainless steel amalgamator
1 existing four-roller mill
1 soap plodder
1 cutting machine
e.  Toilet soap finishing line, consisting of:
1 amalgamator
1 existing duplex refiner
1 simplex plodder with refiner roll
1 cutter
1 stamping machine
4 moulds, engraved as required



- 56 -                        Appendix 5
Page 5
f.  Detergent/soap powder plant, consisting of:
1 vibration screen, dustproof covered
1 spray mixer, stainless steel
1 pressure proof WAS liquid container, stainless steel
1 dust absorber
2 silos with mucon valve, PE
2 Tilting cars
1 electric hoist
1 scale, fully automatic
1 filling device
g.  Soap Pumping System, stainless steel consisting of:
1 submersible soap pump with motor and hoist and
spare parts
h.  Pipes, valves, conveyors and fittings
i. Three-ton truck - 1 unit
j.  3/4 ton pick-up - 1 unit
3.' Experts
a. Building erection engineer (2 man-months)
b. Engineer for machinery assembly (4 man-months)
c. Expert for start-up and training (6 man-months)
J.  COCONUT STEM UTILIZATION
1.   Civil Works
a.  Site work (log yard and timber yard improvement)
b. Alteration and foundation to sawmill building
c.  Extension to drying shed roof and concrete apron for treatment plant
2.   Equipment
a.  Circular headrig with rail-mounted log carriage and electric motor
b.. Docking saw
c. Maintenance parts for existing benchsaw and spare saws
d.  Electrical equipment including switchboards, grinding wheels
and tools
e.  Six-ton log truck with three-ton crane and winch
f. Three-ton delivery truck
g. Chainsaws and spares
h. Treatment plant replacement parts, spares and tools



57 -Appendix 5
Page 6
FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED
PART B : AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
1. Civil Works
a. Central Agricultural Extension Training Center at Nu'u -
3,600 ft and facilities
b. 21 Field Extension Centers - each station 1272 ft2 and facilities
c. Field Laboratory Building at Togitogiga Crop Experimentation Center
600 ft2 and facilities
d. Plant Propagation Unit at Togitogiga Crop Experimentation Center
e. Two Modular House Units and facilities at Nu'u Agricultural Station
f. Upgrading of Siumu and Palauli - West Field Extension Centers
2. Vehicles
a. 2 - four-wheel drive Jeeps
b. 12 - four-wheel drive Small Jeep-Trucks
c. 1 - four-wheel drive Double Cab vehicle
3. Machinery and Equipment
a. One Audio-visual aid unit comprising - Cine/Overhead Projector,
Screen, Slide Projector, Blackboards, Tape recorder, etc.
b. Two 65 HP Tractors, Trailers and Implements
c. Laboratory Equipment and Furniture for Togitogiga Crop Experimentation
Center
d. Farm implements for 23 Field Extension Centers
e. Office Equipment for Project Office



- 58 -                        Appendix 6
Page I
Terms of Reference for the Consultants
The following terms of reference are proposed for the consultants.
These terms of reference may be subject to further refinement at the time
of recruitment.
A.   Consultants for Part A * WSTEC
1. Financial Controller (24 manmonths)
This consultant will be required continuously for a period of
24 months. His main responsibility will be to assist WSTEC with long-
term financial planning and cash management. He will report directly to the
General Manager of WSTEC and will:
(i)  examine WSTEC's annual budget preparation activities
and introduce refinements as necessary;
(ii)  develop the necessary steps for the preparation of a
five-year development and operating plan for WSTEC,
including an accompanyiiig financial plan;
(iii) evaluate WSTEC's operating performance against the
annual budget targets and report variances to
management;
(iv)  supervise the treasury and accounting functions of
WSTEC; and
(v) develop a suitable training program to upgrade the
qualifications of local accounting staff.
2.  General Plantation Administrator (24 manmonths)
This consultant will be required for a continuous period of
24 months. His main responsibility will be .to supervise the operation
of all of WSTEC plantations. He will report directly to the GenoAral
Manager and will:
(i) examiinie the plantation operations of WSTEC and identify any
constraints limiting production;
(ii)  institute measures for overcoming these constraints by
reorganization of plantation operations, including
fertilizer application, as required;
(iii) establish long-term plantation development plans, taking
into account land use potential and possibilities for
intensifying agriculture;
(iv)  estimate costs and supervise the budgetinIg for these plans;
Reeference in text: page 23, para. 80
page 24, para. 84
page 25, para. 88



- 59 -                  Appendix 6
Page 2
(v)  assist in the day-to-day operations of the plantation and
train local staff in plantation management; and
(vi)  establish a system of monitoring on-going and planned
plantation activities to assist WSTEC Management in the
long term.
3.  Sawmill Management Specialist (for the Coconut Stem
Utilization Facilities) (12 manmonths)
This consultant will be required for a continuous period of
12 months. His main responsibility will be to assist WSTEC with mill
expansion, installation of equipment and start-up of the improved mill.
He will report directly to the General Manager of WSTEC and will:
(i)  assist local engineers in the proper installation of the
milling equipment to assure efficiency in the process flow;
(ii)  prepare, in consultation with WSTEC management, plans which
will meet the demand for various coconut timber products,
and which specify in detail the raw materials, fuel and
personnel required;
(iii)  prepare and implement, in close cooperation with the local
supervisors, plans for running the mill and the impregnation
plant;
(iv)  select and train qualified local workers in milling and treat-
ment operations,,particularly in saw maintenance, sawing
techniques to improve lumber recovery, sorting, yard handling,
and quality control;
(v)  perform other tasks related to mill operations, which the
WSTEC management may require; and
(vi)  at the end of his term, to submit a report to WSTEC manage-
ment on mill performance, including specific recommendations
for further improvements in mill efficiency.
4. Coconut Estate Technician (24 manmoilths)
This technician will supervise the.coconut planting program,
including the establishment of a nursery, the preparation of the area
to be planted, fencing, transplanting seedlings, fertilizing, pest and
disease control, and general maintenance of the planted area. He will
also supervise the fertilizer application program for existing coconuts
and provide on-the-job training for counterpart staff.
5. Cocoa Estate Technician (24 manmonths)
This technician will supervise the cocoa planting program
including establishing a nursery, preparation of the area to be planted,



60 -                        Appendix 6
Page 3
fencing, transplanting seedlings, pest and disease control, fertilizing
and maintenance. He will also supervise the fertilizer application program
for existing cocoa, and provide on-the-job training for counterpart staff.
B.  Consultants for Part B : Agricultural Research and Extension
The following general terms of reference are proposed for
the consultants. These terms may be subject to further refinement at the
time of recruitment.
1. Extension Program Organizer (48 manmonths)
This consultant will be required for a continuous period of
48 months. His main responsibility will be to assist the Department of
Agriculture and Forests to plan, organize and implement an efficient
extension service. In working towards these objectives, the consultant
will:
(i) examine the current agricultural (including livestock)
extension activities in Western Samoa and identify any
constraints limiting the effectiveness of the extension
service;
(ii)  make proposals to the Government for overcoming these
constraints and assist in the planning and implementation
of a program designed to obviate these problems;
(iii) organize and conduct in-service training programs for
field extension workers, agricultural officers and
farmers;
(iV)  develop suitable curricula and materials for training
field extension workers, agricultural officers and
farmers;
(v) develop suitable mass-media communication materials for
strengthening the field level extension program;
(vi)  formulate and implement an extension program appropriate
to the conditions of Western Samoa to accelerate the
adoption of modern farm technology and better farming
practices;
(vii) select suitable candidates for overseas fellowship
training under the Project and provide appropriate
orientation before the commencement of this training;
(viii) assist in the development of the National Extension
Training Center at Nu'u and the Field Extension Centers
being established under the Project; and
(ix)  assist the Economic Analysis and Planning Division of
the Department of Agriculture and Forests in planning and
executing a benefit monitoring system for the Agricultural
Research and Extension component of the Project.



- 61 -                     Appendix 6
Page 4
2. Tree Crop Agronomist (36 manmonths)
This consultant will be required for a continuous period of
36 months. His main responsibility will be to assist the Departiment of
Agriculture and Forests to plan, organize and conduct agronomic
investigations into the problems and potential for commercial cultivation
of crops such as coffee, rubber, oil palm and spices. In working towards
these objectives, the consultant will:
(i) collect and report on the problems and potential of
cultivating coffee, rubber, oil palm and spices in
Western Samoa, after taking into account local ecological
factors;
(ii)  make proposals for the improvement and expansion of
existing coffee plantations and initiate suitable programs
towards this end;
(iii)  import suitable planting materials for coffee, rubber,
oil palm and spices ad-dconduct investigations into their
suitability for commercial cultivation;
(iv) draw up and initiate suitable agronomic investigations,
such as spacing, fertilizer and plant protection trials,
particularly for coffee but also for other tree crops
being introduced;
(v)  assist in the organization and implementation of tree
crops pilot projects for smallholders and plantation
organizations in the country;
(vi) propose an economic land use map for tree crop
cultivation in Western Samoa;
(vii)  train local staff in conducting tree crop research; and
(viii)  assist in the selection of suitable candidates-for overseas
training under the Project and make arrangements at suitable
overseas institutions for training in tree crop agronomy.
3. Banana Agronomist (36 manmonths)
This consultant will be required for a continuous period of
36 months.  His main responsibility will be to assist the Department of
Agriculture and Forests to plan, organize, and conduct agronomic inves-
tigations into the problems and potential for the commercial cultivation
of bananas and other fruit crops such as mangoes, pineapples, passion
fruit, a;.,Lado, macademia nuts, citrus etc.  In working towards these
objectives, the consultant will:



-62                      Appendix 6
Page 5
(i) collect and report on the available information on the
problems and potential for cultivating bananas and the
other fruit crops mentioned above;
(ii)  make proposals for the improvement and expansion of
existing banana plantations and initiate suitable
programs towards this end;
(iii)  conduct suitable agronomic investigations, such as
spacing, fertilizer and plant protection trials
particularly for bananas but also for other fruit crops;
(iv)  provide information to the extension service and assist
in the organization and conduct of extension programs in
improved techniques.for banana cultivation and also for
the other fruit crops investigated;
(v) assist in the organization and implementation of pilot
projects for the expansion of banana and other fruit crop
cultivation by smallholders and plantation organizations
in the country;
(vi)  make an evaluation of the soil and climatic suitability
for the commercial cultivation of bananas and other fruit
crops in Western Samoa;
(vii) make an economic land use map for orchard farming in
Western Samoa and provide a comprehensive report on the
problems and potential for large scale fruit farming;
(viii)  train local staff in conducting horticultural research;
and
(ix)  assist in the selection of suitable fellows for overseas
training under the Project and make arrangements at suitable
overseas institutions for training in horticultural science.



.-                            -;...; ..,'; . .
1.-   .,          --w                             171045'W                  171030'W
UPOLU - LOCATIONY OF RESEARCH AND FIELD EXTENSION STATIONS
13045S                                                                                      13045S
GAGA'EMAU,-GA
'USOGA
,   ' ,=,!  ,. '   A'N|        AET     VAM UA  FA/ LL                IT  PAIUG ,',.0T,''.
0FGanws -AMATAUA PIo                                                LEPA ALAE--AT
G Nuu Ariultural                  Orch Station
|:   S   h\~~ Togltoglb Crop Development Center   ;- 0f
0 9 Olo Coconut Sed Garden
@   VallelFALAT PasMr Re-at
*                      WEST   EAST~ton
A -- - ..wdn                                                                                   - -... .. -. .
.-,t~            ,              ;CLE - .
',, --Falpub lleDstit -wnr     -, V        z  ,     - = 10^ MILES
- , ,  , ,  ,   -,   17tl4'  1, ,,0,,,    , , e ,  7145W, ,,          ,,   '71030'W
Reference in text: page 25,para. 87



172045'W                                 172°30'W                                 172015'W
SAVAII -LOCATIONS OF RESEARCH AND FIELD EXTENSION STATIONS
13030'5                                                                                                                          130305S
VAISAGANO EAST       *
/     GAGAIFOMAUGA                     GAGAEMAUGA
SATUPA'ITEA
SALEGA    /n
APALAULI WEST                                              k   C
SCALE                                          FALEFA
0 12 3 4 5             10           23                                i                         LELELOGA
! g- - *   i   13030'5
MOILES
LEG EDN.,
A      Valaata Crop Development Center
A      Asao Crop Development Center
-  -Existing Station
- l O  Proposed Station
Require Upgrading
Political District Boundary
Falpule District Boundary                  -172030'W                                172015'W



- 65 -                      Appendix 8
Page 1
DETAILS OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
PART A    WSTEC
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local     Total
I.   Facilities by Estate:
Vaipapa Estate
1.  Civil Works                            209.2      335.1     544.3
(i) Fencing
27 miles of refencing
8.3 miles of new fences
(ii)  Water Supply
Pump house; tanks; troughs
(iii) Roads
Upgrade 5 miles; New Cons-
truction   2 miles; gates
& cattle grids.
(iv)  Buildings
Staff housing; labour
quarters; Office/store;
copra shed; tractor shed;
copra drier
(v) Replanting Coconuts
2.  Equipment                               42.0       17.5      59.5
(i)  6 ton cattle-truck
(ii)  9 ton dump truck
(iii) 3/4 ton pick-up
(iv)  slasher
(v)  Fertiliser spreader
(vi)  Spare parts (20%)
(vii) Livestock Equipment; ramp,
holding yard and bail
Total - Vaipapa      251.2       352.6     603.8
Reference in text: page 26, para. 90



- 66. -                       Appendix 8
Page 2
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local.     Total
Tausagi Estate
1.   Civil Works                                  60.9     105.1      166.0
(i)  Fencing
15 miles refencing;
4.5 miles new.fences.
(ii) Water Supply
Pump house; tank; troughs
(iii)  Roads
Upgrade 6 miles; New construct-
ion - 1 mile; Gates & Cattle
grids
(iv)  Buildings
Renovate Manager's House;
Labour Quarters; Office/Store;
Copra shed; Tractor shed
2.   Equipment                                    48.7        18.2     .66.9
(i)  6 ton hiside truck
(ii)  3/4 ton pick-up
(iii)  70 HP tractor
(iv)  6 ton trailer
(v) Fertiliser spreader
(vi)  Spare parts
(vii) Livestock equipment
Total - Tausagi       109.6      123.3     232.9



- 67 -                       Appendix 8
Page 3
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local     Total
Faleata Estate
1.   Civil Works                                  67.7      125.5     193.2
(i)  Fencing
11.2 miles refencing;
2.9 miles new fences.
(ii)  Water Supply
Pump house; tanks; troughs
(iii) Roads
Upgrade 5 miles; New cons-
truction - 2 miles; Gates &
Cattle grids
(iv) Buildings
Overseer's house; labour
quarters; office; Copra
shed; copra drier.
2.   Equipment                                    71.5       21.1      92.6
(i) 6 ton stakeside truck
(ii)  9 ton dump truck
(iii) 3/4 ton pick-up
(iv)  70 HP tractor
(v) 6 ton trailer
(vi)  slasher
(vii) Fertiliser spreader
(viii) Spare parts
(ix)  Livestock equipment (Yard, dip
modification, crush & head
bail, portable scale and fencing
equipment)
Total - Faleata      139.2      146.6     285.8



-68
Appendix 8
Page 4
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local      Total
Casala Estate
1.   Civil Works                                  37.8        84.7     122.5
(i) Fencing
4.2 m. refencing;
1 m. new fences.
(ii) Water Supply
Pump house; tanks; troughs
(iii)  Roads
Upgrade 5 miles; New cons-
truction - 2 miles; Gates;
Cattle grids
(iv) Buildings
Manager's house;  Labour
quarters;  Office/Store
2.   Equipment                                    44.7         5.7      50.4
(i) 3 ton lowside truck
(ii)  3/4 ton pick-up
(iii)  spring release cultivator
(iv)  Slasher
(v) 70 HP tractor
(vi)  3.5 ton trailer,
(vii)  Spare parts
(viii)  Livestock equipment
Total - Casala          82.5       90.4     172.9



69                         Appendix 8
Page 5
(WS $ 1000)
Foreign     Local     Total
Tuana'imato
1.   Civil Works                                 42.9       98.8     141.7
(i) Fencing
6.3 m. of refencing;
2.1 m. new fences.
(ii) Water Supply
Tanks
(iii)  Roads
Upgrade 6 miles; new cons-
truction - 1.5 miles; Gates.
(iv)  Buildings
Overseer's house; labour
quarters; Office/Store
2.   Equipment                                  107.6       12.9     120.5
(i) 6 ton stakeside truck (2 units)
(ii)  3/4 ton pick-up
(iii)  70 HP tractors (2 units)
(iv)  6 ton trailers (2 units)
(v) Slasher
(vi)  Spare parts
(vii)  Coffee Processing equipment
Total - Tuana'imato    150.5      111.7     262.2



-7)                       Appendix 8
Page 6
(ws $ '000)
Local                  Total
Lesea Estate
1.   Civil Works                                   25.2       48.1       73.3
(i) Fencing
Refence 2 miles;
0.5 m. new fences.
(ii)  Water Supply
Pump house; 5,000 gal., tanks
(3 units)
(iii)  Roads
Upgrade 1 mile; Gates
(iv) Buildings
Manager's house;   Laboi;r
quarters;  Office/Stor
2.   Equipment                                      7.8        1.0       8.4
(i) 3/4 ton pick-up
(ii)  spare parts
Total - Lesea        33.0       49.1       82.1
Tafaigata Estate
1.   Civil Works                                   28.7       66.2      94.9
(i) Fencing
Refence 2 miles
(ii) Water Supply
Pump house; tanks



- 71 -                       Appendix 8
Page 7
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local     Total
(iii) Roads
Upgrade 6 miles;
New - 0.5 miles; Gates
(iv) Buildings
Overseer's house; Labour
quarters; Office/Store
2. Equipment                                48.4        6.2      54.6
(i) 6 ton hiside truck
(ii)  3/4 ton pick-up
(iii)  70 HP tractor
(iv)  6 ton trailer
(v) Slasher
(vi)  Spare parts
Total - Tafaigata    77.1       72.4     149.5
TOTAL - I           843.1      946.1    1789.2
II. WSTEC Overall Facilities
1. Civil Works                              80.4       69.6     150.0
(i) Copra storage shed
(ii)  Cocoa storage shed
(iii)  Banana storage shed
(iv)  Upgrade 4 miles road
(v) New road - 2 miles
2. Equipment                                62.4        8.0      70.4
(i) 3/4 ton pick-up (3 units)
(consultants/ coordinator)
(ii)  6 ton hiside truck
(iii)  70 HP tractor
(iv)  6 ton trailer
(v) Spare parts
TOTAL - II         142.8       77.6     220.4



- 72 -                       Appendix 8
Page 8
(WS $ '000)
Foreign     Local     Total
III.  Soap Processing a                          699.4       58.9     758.3
IV.  Coconut Stem Utilisation-                  116.0       24.8     140.8
V.  Planting Cocoa                             235.4      253.9     489.3
VI.  Fertiliser                                 611.0      218.3     829.3
VII.  Water Supply                               178.6       18.7     197.3
VIII.  Consultants                                437.0       83.0     520.0
TOTAL -  I-VIII         3263.3      1681.3    4944.6
a/ See Appendix 8 p. 9 for details.
b/ See Appendix 8 p. 10 for details.



- 73 -                     Appendix 8
Page 9
Equipment, Civil Works and Technical ExpTytise
for the Soap Processing Facilities-
WS$
FC           LC
1.   Equipment
a) steam boiler 2 to/h at 13 atm. incl. water
filtering and softening plant                     47,852
b)  submersible soap pump                              3,884
c)  jacketed soap storage tank 10 cbm                 19,649
d) neat soap expansion drying plant including
prefabricated soap granulation tower,
noodle plodder, conveying and cooling
plant for soap granules and noodles              178,211
e)  laundry soap processing line                      76,996
f)  toilet soap processing line                      124,135
g)  complete powdered detergent production line       73,715
h)  pipes, valves, conveyors, fittings                16,450          -
i)  3-ton truck                                        6,284          899
j)  3/4 ton pick-up                                    5,962          855
2.   Civil Works
a)  prefabricated building with dividing wall         91,390       57,110
similar to existing building, length 120
ft., width 40 ft. and height 24 ft.
3.   Technical Expertise
a)  engineer for machinery assembly (4 months)        18,278
b) expert for operation, start up and training
(estimated 6 months)                           27,417
c)  building erection engineer                         9,139
TOTAL             $699,362      $ 58,864
TOTAL           $758,226
1/ Supply, installation and start-up of the soap processing facilities
will be done on a "turnkey basis" after international competitive
bidding.



- 74 -                    Appendix 8
Page 10
EQUIPMENT AND-CIVIL WORKS FOR THE
COCONUT STEM UTILIZATION COMPONENT
WS$
FC           LC
1.   Equipment
a)  Circular heading with rail-mounted              $ 47,320
log carriage and electric motor
b)  Docking Saw                                        2,730
c) Maintenance parts for old benchsaw and
spare saws                                         2,820
d) Electrical equipment (including switch-
boards), grinding wheels and tools                22,300
e) 6-ton logging truck with 3-ton crane and
winch                                             25,000
f)  3-ton delivery truck                               9,000
g)  Chainsaws and spares                                 715
h) Treatment plant replacement parts, spares
and tools                                          3,185
2.   Civil Works
a) Main sawmill building concrete found4tion
and spares                                         1,440     $ 10,310
b) Drying shed roof extension and treatment
plant apron                                        1,500       10,500
c)  Timberyard improvement                               -          4,000
TOTAL              $116,010      $ 24,810
TOTAL           $140,820
.     ..       . ...... .  .....



- 75 -                       Appendix 8
Page 11
COSTS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
(Ws$ V000)
Foreign    Local    Total
Component                                     Costs     Costs    Costs
I.  CIVIL WORKS
Central Extension Training Centre at Nu'u            48.0      39.0     87.0
2 Modular Houses at Nutu                             90.0      10.0    100.0
Farm Manager's House at Asau                         19.5      16.0     35.5
Field Labs at Togitogiga and Asau                    11.4       9.6     21.0
PlLant Propagation Unit at Togitogiga                25.0       7.0     32.0
23 Field Extension Centres                          154.1     225.5    379.6
/                                      348.0     307.1    655.1
II.  VEHICLES
2 Short-Wheel Base 4-W Drive Jeeps                   13.2       2.0     15.2
12 Small 4-W Drive Jeep Trucks                       58.8       4.8     63.6
1 4-W Drive Double Cab                                6.0       0.8      6.8
78.0       7.6     85r6
III.  MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Farm Equipment for Extension Centres                  8.2       -        8.2
Audio Visual Aids for Nu'u Extension Centre           5.0       -        5.0
2-65 HP Tractors and Attachments                     42.0       3.0     45.0
Laboratory Equipment                                  3.0       -        3.0
Office Equipment for Project Office                   3.0       1.0      4.0
61.2       4.0     65.2
IV.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
0 & M at Togitogiga and Asau                         25.0      28.0     53.0
0 & M for Vehicles                                   85.0      15.0    100.0
0 & M at Nu'u Extension Centre                        -        16.0     16.0
0 & M at Project Office                               -        12.5     12.5
110.0      71.5    181.5
V. CONSULTANTS
Extension Program Organiser                         240.0     100.0    340.0
Banana ~,Aror .,list                                180.0      75.0    255.0
Tree Crop Agronomist                                18C..0     75.0    255.0
606.0     250.0    850.0
VI.  FELLOWSHIPS
120 Man-months                                      120.0       -      120.0
15 Man-months Short-term Training                    30.0      -        30.0
150.0       -      150.0
VII.  CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                            161.8     128.2    290.0
Price                                               318.8     165.2    484.0
480.6     293.4    774.0
T 0 T A L                         1827.8     933.6   2761.4



- 76 -
iMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                        Appendix 9
PART A: WSTEC                                         Page 1
1981          1982          1983          1984          198W
OPERATION                        1     2      3  4    3  4    -  2  3  4   1  -    - 4-  1  2 -    4
I.Estates
A.   Vaipapa
Fencing                                                                  Wm
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising existing coconuts
Replarnting 1000 ac. coconuts
Planting 320 ac. cocoL
Pasture Improvement
B.   Tausagi
Fencing
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertiiising existing coconuts
Planting 350 ac. cocoa                                                             *                       *
C.   Faleata
Fencing
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising existing coconuts                   |
Planting 150 ac. cocoa
Pasture Improvement
1Refercrnee     in   text    page   32,   paras. 101        and    10Z



77   -
Appendix 9
Page 2
1981          1982         1983          1984         1985
OPERATION                       1  2   3  4   1  2  3   4  t  2   3  4   1  2  3   4  t   2  3  4
D.  Casala
Fencing
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising Existing Coconuts
Fertilising Existing Cocoa
Planting 180 ac, cocoa                                                                        I A
E.  Tuana'imato
Fencing
Water Supply                                        mm
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising Existing Coconuts
Fertilising Existing Cocoa
F.  Lesea
Fencing
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising 75 ac. cocoa
G. Tafeigata
Fencing
Water Supply
Roads
Buildings
Vehicles & Equipment
Fertilising Existing Coconuts
Fertilising Existing Cocoa
.~     ~~~                      L



- 78 -
Appendix 9
Page 3
1981         1982         1983         1984        1985
OPERATION-
12A     34     1  2 3 4   1  2 3   4          1     122   343  4  4
II. WSTEC Overall
Storage Sheds
Vehicles
111. Soap Processing
Building
Equipment
Vehicles
IV,  Coco-Stem Utiiization
Buildings
Equipment
VeThicles
V, Consultants                                    .       .    .    .



-                                            Appendix     9
IMPLEMIENTATION SCHEDULE                                          p?ge 4
PART B: RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
COMPONENTS                             1981          1982          1983           1984          1985
_________________---                                    -         -                .   .         .-- - - -  -     - -i
1.   Consultants
Recruitment of consultants
Engagement of consultants
(a)  Extension Program Organizer                          -   -             f --    -  -
(b) Tree Crop/Horticulture Agronomist                     U   U  E       U  U   U   E      U  U                       I
2.   Overseas Training
Degree/Diploma level training                     U     E -                                     E    u   .....
Short term training                             E    i
3.   Civil Works
Construction of Nu'u Extersion Center
Construction of field lab at Togitogiga
Construction of 2 houses at Nu'u
Construction of 24 Field Ext. Centres
Upgrading 2 Field Extension Centres
4.   Vehicles
Procurement of vehicles
5.   Machinery and Far. t&'quipment
Farm equipment for extension centres
Equipment for Nu'u E,st. Centre
Procurement of tructor,
Equipment for Project Office



- 80 -
Appendix 10
LOAN ALLOCATION BY CATEGORY AND SOURCE OF FUNDS
($ '000)
Category                        ADB        ADAB         IDA         TOTAL
I. Civil Works-
a)  Buildings                    239.6        69.5       380.8        689.9
b)  Fences                        84.5         -           -           84.5
c)  Roads                        102.6         -          -           102.6
d)  Water Supply                 105.2         -          -           105.2
Sub-Total      531.9         69.5      380.8        982.2
II.  Equipment & Vehicles
a)  Soap Factory                 651.8         -          -           651.8
b)  Coffee Processing             21.9         -           -           21.9
c)  Coconut Woy  Utilization       -         126.9        -           126.9
d)  Machinery -                  182.1         -         67.0         249.1
e)  Vehicles                     202.8         -         85.3         288.1
f)  Miscellaneous 31              78.4       195.4      120.4         394.2
Sub-Total     1137.0        322.3      272.7       1732.0
III. Plantation Supplies -/            102.9       257.6         -          360.5
IV.  Fertilizer                         -         668.6         -          668.6
V.  Fellowships                        -           -         164.1        164.1
VI.  Consultants                      478.2         -         656.5       1134.7
VII.  Unallocated                      750.0       682.0       525.9       1957.9
T o t a 1     3000.0       2000.0     2000.0       7000.0
1/  Foreign cost content of civil works will be financed on fixed percentages
as follows:
a) Buildings - Soap Factory and cocoa and copra storage sheds - 88%;
other WSTEC buildings - 25%; buildings for research and
extension - 40%.
b) Fences - 50%
c) Roads, except gates and cattle grids - 20% of total construction
cost per mile; gates and grids - 90%
d) Water Supply - Pump house - 25%; tanks - 90%; troughs - 50%.
2/ Machinery includes tractors, trailers, slashers, fertilizer spreaders
and other farm equipment.
3/ Miscellaneous equipment includes pumps, water pipes, coffee hullers and
driers, livestock equipment, spare parts, audio visual equLiprment and
office equipment.
4/  Plantation supplies includes seeds, polybags, chemicals, etc.
Reference in text:   page 28, para. 91
page 32, para. 104
page 33, para. 108



- 81 -                       Appendix 11
Page 1
STATUS OF WSTEC'S COMPLIANCE
WITH PREVIOUS LOAN COVENANTS
STATUS OF
COVENANT                                COMPLIANCE
1. Engagement of beef cattle management and
other consultants (L.A. Schedule 5)           Complied with.
2.  Establishment of a Project Office within      Complied with.
90 days of the date of the Loan Agreement
(28 March 1977), headed by a Project
Manager acceptable to the Bank; any
change of Project Manager to be effected
after prior Bank consultation (L.A.
Schedule 6, para. 1).
3. Preparation of detailed program for the        Complied with.
rehabilitation of each estate and inform-
ing the Bank about such programs (L.A.
Schedule 6, para. 2).
4. WSTEC to purchase cacao pods and wet cacao     Not complied with.  WSTEC
from smallholder producers (L.A. Schedule     began such a program, but the
6, para . 3).                                 practice was stopped at the
request of the Government
because some villagers selling
cacao pods were not bona fide
growers of cacao and pilfering
was taking place on recognized
smallholder cacao plantations.
5. WSTEC to inform Bank of names of               Complied with.
candidates selected for fellowship train-
ing and institutions where training is
to be done. (L.A. Schedule 6, para. 4).
6.  Site for the Agricultural Research            Complied with.
Station to be proposed to the Bank
(L.A. Schedule 6, para. 5(a)).
7.  Establishment of a Research Committee         Complied with.
within 90 days of the date of Loan
Agreement (L.A. Schedule 6, para. 5(b)).
8. WSTEC to supply cattle to Department of        Complied with.
Agriculture for distribution to small-
holders through the extension program
implemented by the DOA (L.A. Schedule 6,
para 6).
Reference in text: page 31, para. 99



- 82 -                        Appendix 11
Page 2
9.  WSTEC to be exempt from Customs duties.        Complied with.
10.  Auditing of accounts annually and              Partly complied with.   Copies
furnishing to the Bank copies of the            of accounts furnished late by
accounts within 6 months of the closing         one year.
of the fiscal year (P.A. Section 2.09).
11.  Maintenance of the consolidated debt/          Complied with.
equity ratio of not higher than 70:30
(P.A. Section 2:12).
12.  Maintenance of a current ratio of 1.5:1        Complied with.
(P.A. Section 2.13).
13.  Notifying the Bank of any proposal to          Complied with.
amend, suspend or repeal any provision
of the Ordinance or Regulations
(P.A. Section 2.17).



WVESTERN SAMIOA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
PROJECTED CASH FLOW
1979 - 2006
(WS$ '000)
1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984     1985     1990     1995     2000     2006
UNFLOW
Net Profit                                  1068.9     1082.4    1133.8     1484.6    1729.2    1959.1   2141.7   1762.6   2251.8   2276.6   2290.6
ADB Loan, WSTEC 1                            743. 1   1045.0      186.0     186.0      15U.0
-ADB Loan, WSTEC II                                              1570.8     485.9      166.3      50.1     37.0
DBWS Loan (2nd)                                        150.0
ADAB Grant                                                        183.3     406. 6     333.4     281 2    335.0
RONFIUN                                     1811.4
IDA Loan                                               724.0      827.0     944.0      857.0     840.0    440.0
Depreciation                                  90.5     100.7      204.5     230.5      280.0     302.0    346.3    354.3    367.8    367.2    310.7
Total Inflow                             3713.9     3102.1    4105.4    3737.6     3515.9    3432.4   3300.0   2116.9   Z619.6    2643.8   2601.3
OUTFLOW
Investment Cost WSTEC I                                1577.4     218.5     218.5      169.5                                                            00
Investment Ccst WSTEC II                                         2706.1    1812.3     1122.3     709.2    747.6
Investment Cost, Savai'i                               724.0      827 0     944.0     857.0      840.0    440. 0
RepLacement Cost WSTEC others                                     162.0     311. 7                        162.0
Replacement Cost WSTEC 1                                                               99.0      509. 1                      99.0
Replacement Cost WSTEC II                                                                         63. 0   376. 2   376.2    376. 2   439. 2
Soap Processing - Plant                                938.3
- Vehicles                               17.0
Wood-by-Products - Civil Works                                     31. 9
- Equipment                                      124.4                  4. 7                                 5. 3
- Consultant Services                             25. 6     25. 6
Debt Servicing WSTEC r                                                                 154.0     154.0    154.0    154.0    154.0
Debt Servicing WSTEC II                                                                                           *154. 0   154.0    154.0
Debt Servicing N. P. F. -Ologogo              10.4      10.4       10.4      10.4      12.3        6.1      6.1      6. 1     6. 1
Debt Servicing N. P. F. -Meat Proc.                      3.2        6.4       6.4       6.4        6.4     11. 6     8.4      8.4
Debt Servicing D. B. W. S. (lst)              20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0     20.0
Debt Servicing D.B.W.S. (2nd)                                      18.0      19.0      23.0       24.0     28.0
Debt Servicing RONFIN                                              45.3     271.7     271.7      271.7    950.9
Debt Servicing IDA                                      33.0       96.0     160.0     220.0      264.0    285.0    293.0    198.0    136.0    136.0
Contribution to Government                    60.0      60.0       60.0      60. 0      60.0      60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0
Total Outflow                              90.4     3383.3    4353.6    3859.6     3019.9    2927.6   3241.4   1051.7   1061.0    789.2    196.0
Net Cash Flow                                 3623.5     (281.2)   ( 248.2)  (122.0)     496.0     504.8     58.6   1065.2   1558.6   1854.6   2405.3
Cumulative Cash Flow                           3698.7    3417,5    3169.3    3047.3     3543.3    4048.1   41O6.7   8074.4  15437.8  24679.3  37443.5 5    rX
l)ebt Service Coverage                          20.0       4.3       2.7       2.2        2.1      2.3       1.6     2.7      4.2      8.7      19.1      -x
--I              -
Reference in text:        page 29, para. 94
page 31, para. 98
page 39, para-        125.



WESTERN SAMOA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
PROJECTED INCOMNE STATEMIENTS
1979 - 2006
(WSS '000)
1979      1980      1981     1982     1983     1984     1985      1990      1995     2000     2006
GROSS MARGIN
Copra WSTEC I                 618. 6    361.5    438.2    540. 6    617. 3   618. 7   620.8     622.9    622. 9   622.9    622. 9
Cocoa WSTEC I                 276. 3    117.1    130.2     130.2   130.2     130.2    130.2     130.2    130.2    130.2    130. 2
Copra & Cocoa WSTEC II         -        503.0    605. 5   846. 3   1004.5   1124. 1  1270.3    1350.0   1494.6   1494. 6   1494. 6
Copra. Cocoa & Coffee IDA      -        (54.0)   (66.0)   (88.0)  (134.0)   (123.0)  (207.0)    634.0    815.0    725.0    725.0
Coffee                         28.5      32.0     32.0     32.0     32.0      32.0     32.0      32.0     32.0     32.0     32. 0
Bananas                        2.0        3.0      3.3      3.6      4.0      4.4       5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Taro                           88.3      88.0     96.8    106.5     117.1    128.8    141.7     141.7    141.7    141.7    141.7
Beef Livestock & Hides        104.7     120.0     150.0   180.0    180.0     180.0    180.0     180.0    180.0    180.0     180.0
Piggery                        .9.0      15.0     15.0     15.0     15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0     15.0     15.0      15.0
Feedlmilt                      (4.5)     (2.0)    -        -         -        4.0      4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0           00
Timber                        29.9       31.0     65.0     60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0       60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0
Butchery                      26.9       55.0     55.0     55.0     55.0     55.0     55.0       55.0     55.0     55.0     55.0
.Store                         82.6      120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0      120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0
Service Station                60.5      80.0     80.0     80.0     80.0     80.0     80.0       80.0     80.0     80.0     80.0
Engineering Shop                1.8       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0        5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Ancillary Service              31.9      60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0      60.0      60.0     60.0     60.0     60.0
Miscellaneous                 122.0     140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0      140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0
Auckland                       -          -        -        -        -        -        -          -        -        -        -
Soap Factory                   26.8      87.8     87.8    118.6    155.5     189.5    214.5     284.5    284.5    284.5    284.5
Wood By-products                6.7       6.0      6.0     56.2     56.2     80.5      80.5     105.4    105.4    105.4    105.4
Total Gross -Margin              1512.0    1768.4   2023.8   2461.0   2697.8   2904.2   3008.0    4024.7    4350.3   4260.3   4260.3
Admninistration Costs            388.2      400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0      400.0    400.0    400.0    400.0
Margin before interest & taxes   1123.8    1368.4   1623.8   2061.0   2297.8   2504.2   2608.0     3624.7   3950.3   3860.3   3660.3
Interest                       29.0     275.1    471.0    503.5    485.7    450.7    411.4      269.8    128.8     14.0     -
Taxes                         25.9       10.9     19.0     72.9     82.9     94.4     54.9     1592.3   1569.7   1569.7   1569.7    C  g
Net Profit                      1068.9     1082.4   1133.8   1484.6   1729.2   1959.1   2141.7    1762.6   2251.8    2276.6   2290.6
..1z



WESTERN SAMlOA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
1979 - 2006
(WS$ '000)
1979     1980     1981     1982    1983     1984     1985    1990     1995     2000    2006
Fixed Assets
Estate land and buildings        3619.0   4394.4   5567.2   6392.9  6864.7   7012.7   7324.0  7344.0   7432.5   7486.4   8610.0
Estate plant, equipment &
improvements                  4177.2    5638.6  7658.9    9295.5 10348.0  11118.9  12856.6  15494.9 17622.9  19593.3  26782.0
Soap factory buiLdings &plant              938.3    970.0    994.7  1010.B    1010.6  1030.1   1038.2  1054.3    1128.5  1341.3
Deferred debts owing by                                                                                                                    I
Government                      517.8    766.4   1082.9   1329.9  1489.8    1489.8  1684.3   1536.0  1424.2    1382.9   1203.2           00
Total FixedAssets              8314.0  11737.7 15279.0   18014.0 19713.1  20632.0  22695.0 25413.4  27533.9  29591.1  37936.5 5n
Current Assets
Cash at bank and on deposit       221.9    160.6    171.5    161.5   283.2   '491.1    344.5    672.4  1559.4   2725.1    4411.6
Stocks                            813.7    576.2    615.5    579-5  1016.2   1762.2   1236.2   2563.5  5944.9  10389.5   10818.9
Debtors, pre-payments. etc.       295.9    207.8   222.0     209.0   366.5    635.5    445.9    966.8  2241.6   3917.4    6341.6
Total Current Assets           1331.5    944.6  1009.0     950.0 1665.9    2888.8   2026.6  4202.5   9745.9  17032.0   21572.1
Total Assets                       9645.5   12682.3 16288.0   18964.0 21379.0 23520.8   24721.6  29615.9 37279.8  46623.1   59508.6
Liabilities
C urrent                          217.6    111.9    424.5    487.5   707.4   1425.5    504.7    615.5    520.5   290. 1    136.0
Long-term                        2828. 9  4889. 0  7048. 3  8176. 7 8642. 6  8107. 2  8087.1  5409. 7   2624. 2  704. 0     -
Share-capital                    1397.2   1397.2   1397.2   1397.2 1397.2    1397.2    1397.2  1397.2   1397.2  1397.2    1397.2
Reserves                         520,1.8  6284.2   7418.0   8902.6 10631.8  12590.9   14732.6 22193.5  32737.9  44231.8  57975.4
Total Liabilities and Capital      96i .5   12682.3 16288.0   18964.0 21379.0  23520.8  24721.6 29615.9  37279.8  46623.1  59508.6
Current Ratio                      6.1:1    8.4:1   2.4:1     1.9:1   2.4:1    2.0:1    4.0:1   6.8:1    18.7:1   58.7:1      -            :
Equity (%7) (Capital & Reserves:                                                                                                           0
Total Assets)                     68%      61%     54%      54%     567e     59%       65%    80%      92%     98%       99%             X
Fixed Assets/Total Assets            86f%     93%     94%      95%     92%      88%      92%    86%       74%     63%      64-%,



- 86 -                        Appendix 13
Page 1
ASSUMPTIONS AND COMPUTATIONS UNDERLYING
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
I.    Yield Projections and Technical Coefficients
II.    Assumptions Regarding Costs of Project Components
III.    Product Prices
IV.    Assumptions of the Financial and Economic Analyses
V.    Financial Internal Rates of Return and Sensitivity Tests
VI.    Economic Internal Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
Reference in text: page 38 paras. 120, 121 and 122



- 87 -Appendix 13
-87  -Page 2
I. YIELD PROJECTIONS AND TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
A. COPRA
(i) Existing Coconuts
Projections of yield improvements due to fertilizer
application for existing coconut plantations have been based on
current productivity and management capability on individual
estates taking into consideration the maturity of the palms,
genetic variability and soil conditions.
Table 1       ESTIMATES OF COPRA YIELD IN POUNDS/ACRE
FOR EXISTING COCONUTS
Increase in Copra Yield due to Fertilising by Estate
a!
VAIPAPA  TAUSAGI   FALEATA  CASALA  TUANA'IMATO  LESEA-/  TAFAIGATA
Acreages
Under
Project:       635       790    1,128      392      159         150        693
Present
Yield:        667     1,000.     774      177      774         424        100
With
Project:
Year  1         667    1,000      774      177      774         424        100
2        667     1,000      774      177      774        424         200
3        825     1,200    1,000      275    1,000        424         400
4      1,075     1,400    1,250      475    1,250        424         600
5      1,250     1,500    1,500      600    1,500        424         800
6      1,250     1,500    1,500      600    1,500        424       1,000
7      1, 250    1,500    1,500      600    1,500        424       1,200
Onwards
a/ Lesea coconuts were not considered worth fertilizing.



- 88 -                      Appendix 13
Page 3
(ii)  New Coconut Plartitis
Yield projections for new plantings have been based on
observations made on selected "Samoan Tall" mother palms on WSTEC
estates, suitably adjusted for variability in soil conditions and
management capability.
Table 2:    ESTIMATES OF COPRA YIELD FOR NEW
COCONUT PLANTINGS IN POUNDS/ACRE
EXISTING                      SELECTED
YEAR                           STA                        SAMOAN TALL
1                              667
2                              667
3                              650
4                              625
5                              600
6                              575                           100
7                              550                           250
8                              525                           400
9                              500                           550
10                              375                          950
11                              250                        1,100
12                              125                        1,300
13                                                         1,500
14                                                          1,700
15-25                                                      1,750
a/ The existing stand is thinned out in Years 10, 11, 12 and 13.



- 89 -                   Appendix 13
Page 4
B. COCOA
(i) Existing Cocoa
Projections of yield improvements due to fertilizer
application for existing cocoa plantations have been based on the
current productivity and management capability on individual
estates, taking into consideration the debility of the plantations
due to Phytophthera damage, genetic variability and soil conditions.
Table 3:             ESTIMATES OF COCOA YIELD
IN POUNDS DRY BEAN/ACRE'FOR'EXISTING COCOA
Increase in Cocoa Yield due to Fertilizing by Estate
CASALA       TUANA'IMATO       LESEA       TAFAIGATA
Acreages
Under
Project:            82            930              74           693
Present Yield:     301            279               0 a!        308
With Project:
Year   1           301             279              -           308
2           430            430              -            475
3           480            480            120            530
4                                         300
5                                         450
6                                         600
7                                         6.75
8                                         750
9                                         800
Onwards
a/ Only the immature cocoa on Lesea is considered worth fertilizing.



-90
Appendix 13
Page 5
(ii)  New Cocoa Plantings
Yield projections have been made on the basis of
planting Amelonado seedlings. Experimental results and.
commercial plantation performance of Amelonado indicate its
precociousness and disease resistance, particularly to
Phytophthera. Yields of 2200 pounds of dry bean per acre
have been noted under experimental conditions in the
Solomon Islands while yields of 1900 pounds of dry bean per
acre have been noted in Malaysia.
Table 4:             ESTIMATES OF COCOA YIELD
FOR NEW PLANTINGS IN POUNDS DRY BEAN/ACRE
YEAR                            NEW COCOA (AMELONADO)
1-
2
3
4                                       180
5                                      450
6                                      675
7                                      900
8                                    1,200
9                                    1,300
10                                    1,400
Onwards



- 91 -
Appendix 13
Page 6
C. CATTLE IMPROVEMENT
The improvement in carrying capacity of the pastures
is brought about by:
(i) provision of water;
(ii) planting improved pasture species;
(iii) fertilizing the pasture; and
(iv) improved fencing and handling facilities.
This improvement in carrying capacity results in the
following benefits:
(i) increase in stocking rates;
(ii) increase in carcass weight;
(iii)  decrease in mortality rate; and
(iv) increase in calving percentage.
The estates where the carrying capacity of the pastures
is to be improved will have a greater turnoff capacity.
Table 5:             ESTIMATES OF STOCKING RATES
IN ACRES PER 'LIVESTOCK UNIT
(Steer Equivalents - SE)
Without Fertilizing         With Fertilizing
Type of Pasture      No Water      Water       No Water     Water
Improved Pasture       2.0          1.5         -1.5         1.1
Good Native Pasture    2.3          1.7          2.0          1.5
Poor Native Pasture    4.0          3.0          3.6          2.6



92 -Appendix 13
Page 7
The following benefits using constant 1979 prices would
result from the. pasture improvement programme:
Table 6  :            BENEFITS ACHIEVED THROUGH
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
300 Acres            490 Acres
Vaipapa               Faleata
Without Project
Carrying capacity                 75 SE                213 SE
Carcass weight-                  290 lbs.              290 lbs.
Annual turnoff carcass beef       10 tons               28 tons
With Project
Carrying capacitv                273 SE                445 SE
Carcass weight.-                 330 lbs.              330 lbs.
Annual turnoff carcass beef       40 tons               66 tons
Incremental Beef              30 tons               38 tons
a/ Carcass weights are for 21 months old steers grazing under coconuts.
Value of 68 tons of incremental beef production resulting from
pasture improvement is obtained assuming a price of WS$800 per ton,
which is the average price received by WSTEC. For both the
financial and economic analyses, the same price has been used since
there is no international trading of beef.



- 93 -Appendix 13
Page 8
D. COCONUT TIMBER PRODUCTION
Expected coconut timber production based on the WSTEC's
replanting program is given in Table 7:
Table 7:        PROJECTED COCONUT TIMBER PRODUCTION
Period    1982-1983  1984-1986  1987 Onwards
a)  Acreage cleared/year                200         250         300
b)  Trees available/year              8,000       10,000     12,000
c) Annual timber production
based .on 12 fee-t length and
8 inch average diameter:
(i) lumber (mbf)
export grade (50%)            80         100        120
local grade (50%)             80         100         120
(ii) posts & poles (mbf)            360         450        540
a/ mbf means a thousand board feet.



- 94 -                      Appendix 13
Page 9
Basic Information and Production Assumptions
1. Total acreage of coconut above 50 years of age:
Mulifanua plantations                     7,651 x 25% -      1913
Faleata plantation                                    =      200
Casala plantation     .                                      150
Experimental plot                                     -       80
2343 acres
2.   Number of old trees per acre:   40
3.   Average usable length of coco stem:   36 feet (excluding trim allowances)
of which: the first 12 feet (at 3 feet above base) are high-density.
the second 12 feet are medium density wood.
the third 12 feet are low density wood.
4.   Average diameter per tree:   First 24 feet is 8 inches =  100 board feet/log
Next 12 feet is 6 inches   =   28 board feet/log
5.   Felling and bucking rates:   5 trees/hr x 7 hrs = 35/day
6.   Hauling rate:  4 trips/day of 6-ton truck over 20 miles of road,
carrying 1.2-foot logs, 25 logs/trip
7.   Charcoal yield: 12-foot low-density log 6 inch average diameter has
2.36 cu. feet/log (.07 cu.meters).   Assuming a
density 300 kgs/cu.m., one ton of coco wood will
require 3.33 cu.m.; at 20% recovery a ton of the
wood will yield 200 kilograms of charcoal.
8.   Fuelwood yield: The slabs and trimmings from coco lumber manufacture
are high-density wood. Assuming a recovery of 20%
fuelwood in milling and a density of 500 kgs/cu.m.,
every cubic meter of round logs sawn will yield 100
kgs. of fuelwood.
9.   Number of days operating:   240 which is assumed to be divided into:
160 days for lumber production
80 days for post production
10.   Maximum number of 12 foot logs that can-be milled:
80 logs/8 hour day for lumber
120 logs/8 hour day for posts (quarter)
11.   Mill Capacity:
Lumber: 80 x 50 bd.ft./log x 40% recovery = 1,600 bd.ft.
at 160 days = 256,000 bd.ft./year
120 x 50 bd.ft./log x 90% recovery = 5,400 bd.ft.
at 80 days = 432,000 bd.ft./year



95 -                   Appendix 13
Page 10
ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING COSTS OF PROJECT CO1PONENTS
A.   COPRA
The cost of production and selling of copra has been
determined from WSTEC accounts. A figure reflecting current
costs has been computed from the 1979 costs and used as a constant
in all calculations.
Table 8:     ESTABLISHING PRODUCTION & SELLING COSTS OF COPRA
(WS $)
1979
(10 months to October)
Cost of Production
Labour                                      205,119
Stores                                       99,697
Insurance                                     3,275
Total                                  308,541
Tonnage                                           2520.85
Cost of Production per Ton                   122r40
Cost of Selling
Salaries and wages                           22,640
Transport and handling                       12, 270
Empty sacks and twine                         8,250
Electricity                                     390
Insurance                                     2,640
Sundries                                        200
Total                                   46,390
Tonnage                                           2520.85
Cost of Selling per Ton                             18.40
Total Cost of Production & Selling                $140.80



- 96 -                     Appendix 13
Page 11
Table'9:    Cost of Production & Selling Per Acre WSTECGEstates
Copra Yield           Cost Per Acre
Estate                   lb/acre                (WS $)
Vaipapa                       667                41.92
Tausagi                     1,001                62.91
Faleata                       774                48.65
Casala                        177                11.13
Tuana'imato                   774                48.65
Lesea                         424                26.65
Tafaigata                     100                 6.29
Average Cost/Acre          $ 35.17
This cost per acre is assumed to remain constant since
it is assumed that with increases in production there would be
greater efficiencies in the use of resources and consequent
economies of scale.
B.   COCOA
The cost of production and selling cocoa has been
determined from current selling costs and are reported in
Table 10.



- 97 -                       Appendix 13
Page 12
Table 10: ESTABLISHING PRODUCTION AND SELLING COSTS OF COCOA
(WS $)
1979
(10 months to October)
Cost of Production
Labour                                         108,520
Stores                                          30,949
Insurance                                        1 650
Total                                   141,119
Tonnage                                                 203
Cost of Production per Ton                           695.17
Cost of Selling
Salaries and Wages                               9,857
Levy, wharfage, Inspection fee, etc.            27,550
Transport and Handling                           4,920
Electricity                                        500
General repairs and maintenance                    750
Insurance                                          420
Total                                   43,997
Tonnage                                              181.8
Cost of Selling per Ton                              242.01
Total Cost of Production & Selling                  $937.18
Cost of Production per Acre WSTEC II Estates
Copra Yield          Cost per Acre
Estate                     lb/acre                (WS $)
Casala                        301                   125.93
Tuana'imato                    279                  116.73
Lesea                         319                   133.46
Tafaigata                      308                  128.86
Average Cost/Acre                       $126.25
This cost per acre is assumed to remain constant as with
inrreases in production will come greater efficiencies in the use
of resources and consequent economies of scale.



- 98 -                   Appendix 13
Page 13
COCOA PLANTING COSTS
Planting cocoa under coconuts.
A.   Nursery Costs
1. Cost of Seed
Amelonado to be imported from Vascular Streak Dieback
free islands.
WS $
200 pounds a'c $4.61 per pound freight          922.00
1,000 pods at 20 cents per pod                  200.00'
TOTAL        1,122.00
Cost per sced - 4 cents (30 seeds per pod)
2.   Size of Nursery
With a planting distance of 7.5 feet x 10 feet amongst
coconuts planted 30 feet on the square, the cocoa density
will be approximately 530 per acre. At a planting rate of
200 acres per annum, 106,000 seedlings will be required each
year for five years to plant 1,000 acres. With supply
requirements of 10% and poor germination, culling and death
losses at 25%, the number of seed required per annum will be
157,000, with nursery space required for 140,000 seedlings;
An acre of nursery land provides for about 400,0004
seedlings (in two batches), therefore a 0.4 acre nursery is
required for five years.
3.   Costs of Half Acre Nursery
(a) Labour
Soil collection, sowing, fertilizer application, weeding,
irrigation, spraying, selection & culling, maintenance &
miscellaneous.
WS $
Labour     583 man-days at $2.50           1,457.50
Foreman     60 man-days at $4.00             240.00
Total   $ 1,697.50



- 99 -                      Appendix 13
Page 14
(b) Materials
Seeds, polybags, chemicals, fertilizer, spraying
equipment, irrigation equipment, tools, shade,
store, running costs and transport.
Cost per Annum                   WS $ 24,716.00
(c)  Seedling Costs                              WS $
FC         LC         Total
140,000 seedlings               24,716     1,698      26,414
Per seedling                    18 cents   1 cent     19 cents
B.   Windbreak Planting Costs for 200 Acres
Foreign    Local      Total
Labour                                 -         481         481
Dadap cuttings                         -         613         613
Paraquat                .4448                     -        41448
4_448     1,094       5,542
C.   Lining & Holing Costs (530 points)
Labour/Acre                          WS$/Acre
26 md at $2.50                        65.00
2.6 md at $4.00                       10.40
$75.40
D.   Planting Costs (Including Fertilizer Application)
1.   Labour                           WS $
Labour  7 md at $2.50            17.50
Foteman 0.7 md at $4.00           2.80
20.30
2.   Materials (Fertilizer,
Chemicals, tools)                48.00



- 100 -pendix 13
Page 15
E.   Weeding
1.   Labour                                        WS$/Acre
Years 2-5, 8 md at $2.50; 0.8 at $.400          23.20
Years 5 onwards, I md at $2.50;
0.1 md at $4.00                 2.90
2.   Materials
Tools & Chemicals - Years 2-5                   22.00
Years 5 onwards              0.20
F.   Fertilizing
1.   Labour                                           WS $
Year 1, 6 md at $2.50                           15.00
0.6 md at $4.00                          2.40
17.40
Year 2 onwards, 2 md at $2.50                    5.00
0.2 md at $4.00                  0.80
5.80
2.   Materials                               WS$/Acre
Foreign       Local
Years 1-3, 200 lb/acre              21.00         2.00
Years 4 onwards - 220 lb/acre       23.00         2.00
G.   Pruning
1.   Labour                                           WS $
Year 1 - 4 x 2.50 + .4 x 4.00                   11.60
2 - 5 x 2.50 + .5 x 4.00                   14.50
3- 6 x 2.50 + .6 x 4.00                    17.40
4 - 8 x 2.50 + .8 x 4.00                   23.20
2.   Materials (tools, etc.)                       $2.00 per acre



- 101 -
Appendix 13
Page 16
H.   Pest & Disease Control
1.   Labour                                       WS$/Acre
Year 1 4 x 2.50 + .4 x 4.00                     11.60
Year 2 onwards 2 x 2.50 + 0.2 x 4.00            5.80
2. Materials                                      WS$/Acre
Year 1 - fungicide and pesticides              20.00
Year 2 onwards                                 10.00
I.   Cocoa Planting Schedule
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
Tausagi         200      150
Faleata                   50      100
Casala                            100        80
Vaipapa                                      120      200
COCONUT REPLANTING COSTS (WS$)
A.   Nursery Costs
1.   Seed Costs:                                       WS$
Cost per nut including transport
to nursery                                        0.02
Total Cost per nut    0.02
2.   Seed Numbers
A field spacing of coconuts at 30 feet on the triangle to
allow for intercropping gives a plant density of 56 palms
per acre. With 5% infilling and 30% culling from the
nursery, 84 nuts are required per acre to be planted.
3.   Nursery Size
At a planting rate of 200 acres per annum 16,800 seedlings
are required or about four acres-of nursery and germination
beds. (4,800 seedlings per acre of nursery)



- 102 -
Appendix 13
Page. 17
4.   Cost per Acre of Nursery
(a) Labour:
(i) Germination Bed
Preparation of seed bed & seed nVts,
planting seed nuts, watering, culling
and selec.tion
(ii)  Nursery
Soil collection, filling bags, manual
weeding of bags, chemical weeding between
bags, watering, fertilizing, pest &
disease control, selection & culling,
miscellaneous.
WS$
Labour  325 man days                          813
Foreman  32 man days      ,                   128
$1041
(b) Materi,.;2s
Seed, polybags, chemicals, fertilizer, tools,
irrigation and transport.                  $ 1,278
(c)  Planting Materials Costs
For 3,192 seedlings
Cost per polybag seedling $0.70
(Foreign Cost $0.40; Local Cost $0.30)
B.   Lining, Holing & Planting Costs:  (Year 1)
Labour Costs:
Labour  4.0 md at $2.50                              $ 10.00
Foreman 0.4 md at $4.00                                 1.60
$ 11.60



- 103 -
Appendix 13
Page 18
C.   Thinning Costs (Years 10, 11, 12 & 13)
1.   Labour Costs:
Labour    14.8 md at $2.50                      $ 37.00
Foreman   1.48 md at $4.00                          6.00
$ 43.00
2.   Materials
Purchase & Operation of Chain Saws                  4.00
Chemicals & innoculum                               3.00
$  7.00
D.   Weeding Costs:   (Years 1-8)
1.   Labour                                           WS$/Acre
Year 1 Labour 10 md at $2.50                       25.00
Foreman 1 md at $4.00                       4.00
29.00
Years 2 Labour   8 md at $2.50                     20.00
to 8    Foreman 0.8 md at $4.00                    3.20
23.20
2.   Materials:
Chemicals - Year 1 only                            23.00
E.   Fertilizing Costs:
1.   Labour                                           WS$/Acre
Labour  1.5 md/acre at $2.50                        3.75
Foreman 0.15 md/acre at $4.00                       0.60
4.35
2.   Materials                                        WS$/Acre
FC        LC
Year 1 44 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton          4.70      0.40
Year 2  88 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton         9.30      0.90
Year 3 132 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton        14.00      1.30
Year 4 176 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton        18.60      1.70
Year 5 220 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton        23.30      2.20
YIYO   220 lb, 12-5-20/acre at 259/ton        23.30      2.20
(FC $237; LC $22)



- 104 -
Appendix 13
Page 19
F.   Pest & Disease Control:
1.   Labour                                      WS$/Acre
Labour  1 md at $2.50                         2.50
Foreman 0.1 md at $4.00                       0.40
$2.90
2.   Materials
Chemicals  Year 1                            22.00
Year 2                            18.50
Year 3 & onwards                  15.00



- 105 -
Appendix 13
Page 20
FERTILISING EXISTING COCONUTS:
A.   Rate:
220 pounds per acre of 12N: 5P:20K is to be applied
to existing coconuts which have a planting distance of 30 ft.
on the square or 48 palms per acre.
B.   Cost of Fertilizer:
The current cost of fertilizer CIF Apia is WS$233 per
ton. To this a local cost of $18 per ton for handling,
wharfage and transport to store and $8 per ton (FC $4; LC $4)
to cover movement to plantation and into the field. This
gives a total cost of $259 per ton consisting of $237 foreign
cost and $22 local cost.
C.   Cost of Application:
1.5 mandays per acre are required to apply the fertilizer.
WS/Acre
1.5 md at $2.50                               3.75
0.2 md at $4.00                                0.80
$4.55
D.   Time of ApElying:
Application will commence in Year 2.
FERTILISING EXISTING COCOA
A.   Rate:
The original stands of cocoa trees were planted at 306
per acre (12 feet square) and at this density an application
rate of 220 pounds per acre is equivalent to 0.72 pounds per
tree. Due to wind damage and tree mortality, the existing
stands of cocoa now only hold about 200 trees per acre on
the average and to broadcast fertiliser at 220 pounds per acre
would be wasteful. But applying 0.72 pounds per tree to the
existing stands results in an application rate of 145 pounds/
acre, which is adequate.



- 106 -
Appendix 13
Page 21
B.   Fertilizer Cost:
As determined for coconuts, the cost would be WS$259
per ton including $237 per ton Foreign Cost and $22 Local
Cost. This includes delivery to the field.
C.   Cost of Application:
1.5 mandays per acre are required to fertilise cocoa at this
density.
D.   Time of Application:
Application will commence in Year 2.



- 107 -
Appendix 13
Page 22
Recommended Formula and Cost Per Ton of
Laundry Soap
1 Ton of Laundry Soap = 65% FAT    684 kg FAT Mix per ton.
Raw Materials                              Unit Cost       Total
WS$            WS$
70% Tallow    479 kg                        0.638          305.60
30% CNO        205 kg                       0.33            67.65
Caustic soda  109 kg                        0.374           40.77
Salt          102 kg                        0.135            13.85
Additives
Sodium
Hvdrosulphite  0.85 kg                      2.5               1.70
Perfume        7.50 kg.                     4.42             33.15
Colour         0.2 kg                      26.53              5.12
Packing:  47 outer cartons                  0.22             10.34
Sub-Total           478.18
Overheads             95.64
Contingencies         12.00
586.82
1 Ton of Laundry Soap WS$ 586.82



- 108 -
Appendix 13
Page 23
Recommended Formula and Cost Per Ton of
Toile t Soap
1 Ton of Toilet Soap Base  = 78% FA = 82.1% FAT M x per ton.
Raw Materials                             Unit Cost         Total
WS$              WS$
30% coconut oil          246.3 kg          0.33             81.28
70% beef tallow          574.7 kg          0.80            459.76
Caustic soda             132   kg           0.374           49.37
Salt                     123   kg          0.135            16.60
Additives
Sodium Hydrosulphite       0.85 kg         2.0               1.70
Marlon AS/3 acid           7.5 kg           1.80            13.50
Preventol                  0.5 kg          5.00              2.50
Mg Sulphite                0.25 kg          0.80             0.20
Sodium silicate           10.0 kg          0.36              3.60
Perfume                   10.0 kg         29.92            299.20
Lanoline                   5.0 kg           2.00            10.00
Colour                     0.2 kg         26.53              5.30
Titanium dioxide           2.0 kg           1.36             2.72
Sub-Total    945.73
Estimated 10,000 inner cartons             0.03            300.00
or wrappers
Estimated 140 outer cartons                0.20             28.00
Estimated manufacturing expenses                           244.74
Contingencies                                               10.00
1 Ton of Toilet Soap   WS$ 1,528.47



- 109 -
Appendix 13
Page 24
Recommended Formula and Cost Per Ton of
Soap Powder
Raw Materials                            Unlit Cost        Total
WS$             tWS$
40% Coconut oil - soap granules 400 kg     0.36            144.00
25% Sodium toipolyphosphate     250 kg     1.00            250.00
15% Sodium carbonate            150 kg     0.35             53.00
10% Sodium sulphate             100 kg     0.36             36.00
5% Ninionic material            50 kg     2.00            100.00
0.1% Optical bleacher             1 kg    25.00             25.00
0.5% Perfume                      5 kg     5.00             25.00
Sub-Total           633.00
2,000 inner cartons for avg. 500 gr. est. 0.10             200.00
400 outer cartons for 50 pack             0.50              20.00
853.00
Contingencies (20%)    179.00
1 Ton of Soap Powder   WS$ 1,031.00



- 110 -
Appendix 13
Page 25
III. PRODUCT PRICES
A.   COPRA
WSTEC markets its copra through the Copra Board of
Western Samoa. The destinations of the copra exports from
Western Samoa vary from year to year. At present the
distribution of copra exports is as follows: 50% Europe,
25% New Zealand, and 25% Japan. The export figures indicate
a decrease in sales to Europe and New Zealand (previously
60% and 33% respectively) and an increase in sales to Iypan
(previously 7%) since the 1977 Appraisal for WSTEC I. -
In the computation of the price to be paid to the producer,
the following cost adjustments are applied by the Copra
Board to the international price for copra:
(a) Government tax (levy) of 7% of the FOB price in
excess of WS$ 100 per ton;
(b) A deduction for meeting the actual operating costs
of the Board;
(c) Administrative costs;
(d) Freight, shipping charges, etc.;
(e)  Inspection fee, wharfage and weightbridge;
(f) Warehouse costs, and
(g) A profit/loss element used for price stabilization.
WSTEC receives the buying price paid by the Copra
Board to producers in the warehouse at Apia, with a special
allowance of $2 per ton added as a premium for the large
quantities of good quality copra produced. It would be
pertinent to note that other producer prices are lower due
to handling charges etc. The "in warehouse price" is
determined by deducting the following charges from the net
(after 7% export duty) FOB price at Apia.
1/ WSTEC Agricultural Development Project in the Independent State of
Western Samoa - Rep. No. SAM: Ap-8, 1977.



- 11 1 -
Appendix 13
Page 26
Current % Net FOB Price-
Transfer to Copra Reserve                             8.26
Administration                                        3.19
Rent, storage, carriage, sundries                     0.80
Fire insurance                                       0.32
Labour (screening, bagging, stacking,
marking, unstacking)                             1.07
Shrinkage allowance (4%)                             3.32
The price that WSTEC receives for copra expressed as a
percentage of the net FOB price at Apia varies from year to year
as shown in Table 11.
Table 11:           PRICES OF COPRA RECEIVED BY WSTEC
(WS$ TOO0)           PER CENT
Aetrage Net FOB WSTEC Ptice      NET FOB
1976                           150             133          89
1977                           232             208          90
1978                           260             225          87
1979                           440             349          79
1980 (April)                   313             262          84
For the purposes of the financial analysis the price received
by WSTEC for its copra is taken as 80% of the projected net FOB price.
Price projections have been made using the "World Bank Price
Prospects for Major Primary Commodities" published in January 1980. To
determine the net FOB price at Apia, adjustments have been made for
transit loss in weight (3 per cent), freight (cu5yently $85.30 to
Hamburg) and 5% for insurance and other charges.-
1/ Copra Board of Western Samoa: Price Order, 29 April 1980.
2/ These are the charges currently used by the Copra Board in Western
Samoa to determine the FOB price at Apia for purposes of determining
appropriate producer prices.



- 112 -
Appendix 13
Page 27
Table 12:        PRICE PROJECTIONS FOR COPRA
World Bank          FOB Price    Net FOB     Ptice to
Projected Prices        Apia       Price Apia     WSTEC
YEAR     (Constant 1980 US$/MT)  (WS$/Ton)   (WS$/Ton)    (80% Net FOB)
1980             594               426.93        399           319
1981             609               439.77        411           329
1982             587               421.58        394           315
1985             666               488.99        457           363
1990             616               446.19        417           333
For purposes of the economic analysis the FOB price at Apia has
been computed based on the World Bank Projections as they represent the
appropriate border price for Samoan copra exports.
B.   COCOA
WSTEC markets its cocoa directly through brokers, not through
the Cocoa Board and is not expected to pay Cocoa Board Expenses. However,
WSTEC do pay a 3% stabilization levy to the Board and expect to receive a
subsidy if prices decrease.   In addition there is an export tax of 7% of
the FOB price over WS$800 per ton.
Price projections have been made using the "World Bank Price
Prospects for Major Primary Commodities" published in January, 1980. To
determine the net FOB price at Apia, adjustments are made for transit loss
in weight (2%), freight (currently $106.70) 7% exportl ax, 3% stabilization
levy and 15 per cent for insurance and other charges.-
Table 13:             PRICE PROJECTIONS FOR COCOA
World Bank              FOB Prices   Projected Prices
Projected Prices            Apia           to WSTEC
YEAR             (Constant 1980 US cts/kg)    (WS$/MT)       (WS$ / MT)
1976                    352                     2,703.80       2,458
1981                    333                     2,552.00       2,320
1982                    323                     2,472.80       2,248
1985                    268                     2,036.10       1,851
1990                    183                     1,360.70       1,237
1/ These are the charges currently used by the Cocoa Board in Western
Samoa to determine FOB price at Apia for purposes of determining
appropriate producer prices.



-113 -
Appendix 13
Page 28
On examining the World Bank projections and the prices
received by WSTEC for Cocoa for the period 1976-79, it was evident
that the two price series compared favourably (Table 14).
Table 14:         PRICE SERIES COMPARISON FOR COCOA
WORLD BANK                      Price Received
Current Dollars                Net FOB       by WSTEC
Year            cts/kg         WS$/M.T.      Apia        WS$/MNT.
1976              205           1,911        1,433          1,258
1977              379           3,533        2,682          2,711
1978              340           3,169        2,391          2,600
1979              327           3,048        2,290          2,383
In view of the close historical relationship between the
projected international prices (net FOB Apia) and the price received by
WSTEC, the World Bank projected price series apprppriately adjusted for
freight, insurance, handling-and other charges was used in the financial
analysis. In the case of the economic analysis, the net FOB price
presented above was adjusted for the levies charged as export duty (7%)
and 3% to the price stabilization fund.
C.   BEFF
The average beef price (WS$ 800 per ton) obtained by WSTEC in
1979 was used in both the financial and economic analyses since no
international trading of carcass beef takes place in Western Samoa.
D., SOAP
The prices used in the financial and economic analyses are
export prices received by WSTEC in their current operations for laundry
and toilet soap. Although the domestic market price is slightly lower,
it was reasonable to use in the financial analysis since an upward
revision in prices was likely with improvements in quality envisaged
with the commissioning of the new plant. For soap powder, a conservative
price has been used based on current prices for imported soap powder on
the domestic market. The prices used in the analyses are given in
Table 15.



- 114
Appendix 13
Page 29
Table 15:          SAMOA BRAND SOAPS EXPORT PRICES (US$)
Export Price
Per Carton
Toilet Soap             72 per ctn                    $ 16.65
Bath Soap         -    100 per ctn                     $ 32.65
Laundry Soap      -     28 per ctn                     $ 17.50
Soap Powder       -   Price/ton $1,200
(proj ected)
E. COCONUT STEM PRODUCTS
The main products from the coconut stem available for domestic
use and exports are lumber, fence posts, charcoal and fuelwood. In the
case of fence posts and fuelwood, since the product would be entirely
for the local market, current domestic market prices have been used in
both the financial and economic analyses. In the case of lumber and
charcoal, the current local and internatipnal prices for Western Samoa
products have been used in the financial analysis. In the case of the
economic analyses, the border prices (FOB Apia) have been used.



- 115 -
Appendix 13
Page 30
IV.   Assumptions Made in the Financial and Economic Evaluation
1.   The economic life of the project components viz. estate reha-
bilitation, soap manufacture and coco stem product utilization
have been assumed to be 25 years. It would be pertinent to
note that the physical life of the plantations and the machinery
provided would extend beyond the project life assumed for
purposes of analyses. No salvage values have been assumed at
the end of the project life. Replacement costs for machinery and
equipment have been included in the analysis.
2.   The project has been evaluated on a incremental basis over the
economic life of the project. The incremental benefits and costs
have been computed using existing costs and benefit streams of
the respective project components as the datum.
3.   The assumptions relating to yield and other technical coefficients
are discussed in Appendix 13, pages 2-9. . The projections are
conservative estimates taking into consideration relevant technical
parameters and existing management capacity in the country.
4.   The  prices of output for the respective project components are
discussed in Appendix 13, pages   .25-29.  In the financial analysis,
the prevailing market prices i.e., local and international prices
where appropriate have been used.
In the economic analysis, all traded goods have been valued at
their marginal (border) prices i.e., FOB Apia price converted to
domestic currency at the OER. In cases where there is no
comparable international price (non-traded goods) e.g. fence posts,
the current purchasing price indicating consumer willingness to pay
was used.
5.   The prices of inputs for the respective project components are
discussed in Appendix 13, pages 10-24.      For all goods and
services which are traded, the prices used in both the financial
and economic analyses have been the marginal international (border)
prices adjusted for the resource costs of individual transport,
handling and distribution. Since, there are no import restrictions
on the goods required for the project and no domestic industries
producing item. which could provide any sizeable requirements of
the project, it was considered convenient and appropriate to use
CIF prices suitably adjusted for local costs of handling and
distribution in both the financial and economic analyses.
Non-tradable items such as buildings were also broken down into
tradable and non-tradable items and accordingly priced. Non-
tradable items were priced at the local purchase price.



- 16 -
Appendix 13
Page 31
In the case of unskilled labour, the market wage rate of
WS$ 2.50 per day was used in the financial analysis. However,
in the economic analysis this was considered to be above the
opportunity cost for rural labour. According to a recent study
in Western Samoa, the subsistence production per capita amounted
to WS$ 1.50 per day. In view of the social organization which
prevails in Samoa where there are considerable transfer payments
within families and the psychological preferences for leisure
vis-a-vis work, the shadow wage rate was imputed to be WS$ 1.75.
A conversion factor of 0.7 was therefore applied in the economic
analysis to the market wage rate for unskilled labor used in the
financial analysis.
6.   No import duties and taxes will be charged on capital goods and
production goods imported for the project as in the case of the
other loans to Western Samoa. No adjustment for transfer pay-
ments were therefore necessary in the economic analysis.
7.   The official exchang! rate used in the analyses is US$1.00
WS$ 0.9139 which was the mid-rate prevailing over the three months
up to the time of appraisal. The unofficial rate for the
US Dollar was very close to the OER. In view of the lack of any
serious distortion in the exchange rate, no shadow exchange rate
was computed for the analysis.
8.   The following contingency factors were used in the analyses:
1980   1981   1982    1983   1984   1985
Price Rise Index:     10.5%    9%     8%    7%     7%      7%
Physical Contingencies
Civil Works at 15/
Equipment and Materials at 10%
Consulta\lcy Services at 5%
9.   A Sensitivity Analysis to determine the financial and economic
viability of the project to changes in key aggregate variables was
conducted and are reported in Appendix 13, page 43, Table 27.
10.   In the case of the Agricultural Research and Extension component,
no cost-benefit analysis was conducted, since the benefits of the
project could not be precisely estimated. Details of the cost
appear in Appendix 8.



TABLE 16;, FINANCIAL ANiALYSIS VAIPAPA ESTATE
ITFWHYEAR                           1        2         3        4           5         6         7         8          9        10        it        12        13         14      15-25
WJITHiOUT PROJECT
INCOME (Ws$ 16000)
Coconuts:
Copra Yield (lb/acre)                          667      667       650      625         600       575       550       525        500      475        450       400       400        400       400
Production, 1,635 ac. (tons)                   487      487       474      456         438       420       401       383        365       347       328       292       ?q7        292       292
Price per ton                                  329      315       331      347         363       357       351       345        339       333       333       333       333        333       331
Tocal Tncome  Copra                          160.2   -153.4     156.9     158.2      159.0     149.9     140.8      132.1     123.7     115.6     109.2      97.2       97.2      97.:?     97.'.
Cattle
Income Cattle                                 8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0         8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0        343
Total Income Witrhout Project                 168.2    161.4     164.9     166.2      167.0     157.9     148.8      140.1     13t.7     123.6     117.2     105.2     105.2      105.2     10_.
COSTS (WS$ '000)
P?roduction & Selling Costs-Copra($35.17)      57.5     5745      57.5     57.5       57.5      57.5       57.5      57,5      57.5      57.5      57.5       57.5      57.5      `7. 5     57.5
Cattle Hlusbandry                              0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7         0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7        1. 7      0.
Total Costs Wi-hout Project                    58.2     58.2      58.2     58.2        58.2      58.2      58.2      58.2      .58.2      58.2      58.?      58.2      58.2       53.2      58.2
WIHPROJECT
INCOM (ws$ '000)
Coconuts:
535 Acres Fertilised
Copra Yield (Ilbacre)                         667      667       8`5     1.075      1,250     1.250     1,250     1,250      1,250     1,250     1,250     1,250     1.25:)1    1,250     1.250
Production (tons)                             189      189       234       305        354       354       354       354       354        354       354       354       354       354        354
1,0    ce      elne
Copra Yield  (lb/acre-new plantings)                                                             20        70       150        260       450       650       860     1,.080    .1.10      1.470
Copra Yield (lb/acre - existing stand)        667      667       650      625         600       575       550       525       500        375       250       125        --
Production (tons)                             298      298       290      279         268       266       277       301        339       368       402       440       482       585       656
Total Production of Coors                      487      487       524      584         622       620       631       655       693        722       756       794       836       939      1.010
Price aer, ton                                 329      315      J311      347         363       357       351       345       339        333       33        13        3133                 13
Total Income  Copra (WS5$ '000)               160.2    153.4     173.4    202.6       225.8     221.3     221.5     226.0     234.9      240.4     251.7     264.4     278.4     312.6     336.3
Cocoa:
120 Acres New ?lantinxs
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre                                                                                      180       450       675       900      1.200     1,300     1,400     1,4,00    1,400
Production (tons)                                                                                          t0        24        36        48         64        70        75        75        75      1
20ArsNew Plantin a
Cocoa Yield (lb-/acre                                                                                               I80       450       675        900     1,200     1,300     1,4.00    1,400
Production (tons)                                                                                                    16        40        60         80       107      .116       125       1.25
Total Production of Cocoa                                                                                   10        40        76        108       144       177       191.      200       200
Price per ton                                                                                            1.606     1.483     1.360      1.237-    1.237     1.237     1,237     1.237-    1,'37
Total Income Cocoa CWJS$'000)                                                                              16.1      59.3      103.4     133.6     178.1     218.9     236.3     247.4     247.4
income from Cattle                              8.0     15.2      24.0     32.0       32.0       32.0      32.0      32.0      32.0      32.0      32.0       32.0      32.0      32.0      32.0
Total Income With Project                     168.2    168.6     197.4    234.6      257.8      253.3     269.6     317.3     370.3     406.0     461.8      515.3     546.7     592.0     615.8
COSTS (WS$-000)
Production & Selling Coats Copra              57.5     57.5      57.5     57.5       57.5       57.5      57.5      57.5      57.5      57.5       57.5      57.5      57.5      57.5      57.5
Production &Selling Costa Cocoa               -          -         -        -           -         -       15.2      40.4      40.4      40.4      40.4       40.4      40.4      40.4      40.4
Cattle 'Hu-bandry                              0.7      1.3       1.9      2.5         2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5
Colt of Fertilising 635 Acres Coconuts                  4.3       4.3      4.3        4.3       20.5      20.5      20.5      20.5      20.5      20.5       20.5      20.5      20.5      20.5
Co.,t of Replanting 1,000 acres Coconuts      25.3     35.1      44.2     53.3       62.4       65.6      67.9      69.9      66.4      64.4       62.4      60.4      58.4      58.4      55.8
Cost of Planting 320 acres Cocoa                -        -         -      37.7       73.0       34.4      35.9      37.4      32.5      24.0      24.2       24.0      24.2      24.0      24.2
Cost of Pasture Improvement                     -       3.0       6.0      9.0        1.4       4.9        4.9       4.9       4.9       4.9       4.9       4.9        4.9       4.9       4.9    d
FertiLiser Investment Costs                    2.2     21.6      25.9     36.4       47.7
Fencing                                       16.7     33.5      16.7                                                                                                                            (lq ~
Wa ter Supply                                 52.3     41.3                                                                                                                                           :
Roads                                         58.4                                                                                                                                                    C
Buildings                                     74.6     74.6                                                                                                                                        )..
Vehicles & Equipment                          59.5       -        -         -          -        60.4        --                25.4        -       60.4         -
Cntingencies                                 86.7     85.4      48.6     84.4      132.2
Tot~al Costs With Project                     433.9    357.6     205.1    285.1.     381.0      245.8     204.41    233.1     250.1     214.2     '772.8     210.2     '08.4     208.2     205.
icremental Income                               0      7.2      32.5     68.4       90.8      95.4      120.8     177.2     238.6     282.4     344.6     410.1      441.5     486.8     5106
Incremental Cost                             375.7    299.4     146.9    226.9      322.8      187.6     146.2     174.9     191.9     156.0     214.6      152.0     150.7     150.0     147.6
-Wet Cash Flow                              (375.7)  (292.2)    (114.4)  (158.5)    (232.0)    (92.2)    (25.4)      2.3       46.7     126.4     130.0     258.1     '91.3     336.8      3 63. 0  l
Financial Internal Rate of Return:   9.8%                                                                             a! Net Increment in:-
Years 16& 21 : 302.6
YearA 17 &  5:   337.6



TABLE 17: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS - TAUSAGI ESTATE
1981
r T EM/ Y EAR A                          1        2         3        4          5         6         7         8         9        o10      i         12        13        14      15-25
WIT-OUT PROJECT
I !;o,  ( WS $S-roo
Coconuts:
Coprs Yield (lb/acre)                       1,000    1,000     1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     I,OW      1.000     1,000    L,000      1.000
Production-tons (790 ac)                      353      353      353       353       353       353       353       353       353       353       153      353       353       353       353
..rice per ton                                329      315      331       347       363       357       351       345       339       333       333       333       333      333       333
7otal Income Copra                         116.1    111.2     116.8     122.5     128.1     126.0     123.9     121.8     119,7     117.5    117.5     117.5     117.5     117.5     117.5
C15is 0("SS '000)
Coccnuts
Production & Selling Costs -Copra           '7.8      27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8     27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8
W'ITH PROJECT
Xl2Cc.e (iS- ' 000)
Fertilise 790 Ac Coconucs
Coors Yield (lb/acre)                       1,000    1,000    1,200     1,400     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500     1,500     L,500
?roduction-tons                               353      353      423       494       529       529       529       529       529       529      529       529       529       529       529
Price pPr ton                                329      315       331       347       363       357       351       345       339       333      333       333       333       333       333
moral Income  Copra                        116.1   111.2     140.0     171.4     192.0     188.9     185.7     182.5     179.3     176.2    176.2     176.2     176.2     176.2     176.2-
OCOA
2'0 ac
'Cocoa Yteld (lblacre                                                     180       450       675       900     1,200     1,300     1,400    1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400      0
'roduction tons                                                          16         40        60        80       107       116       125      125       125       125       12 5      125
150 aC
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                                                              180       450       675       900     1,200    1,300     1,400     1,400     1,400     1.400     1,400
Production-tons                                                                     12        30        45        60        80       87        94        94        94        94        Q4
"Total Production                                                         16         52        90       125       167       196       212      219       219       219       219       219
Price ger ton                                                         1.984     1IS51      1.729     1.606     1.483     1.360    1.237     1.237     1.237     1.237     1,237     1,?37
Total Income Cocoa                                                     31.7       96.3     155.6     200.8     247.6     266.6    262.2     270.1     270.1     270.1     270.1     270.1
Total Income - With Project                 116.1    111.2    140.0    203.1      288.3     344.5     386.5     430.1     445.9    438.4     446.3     446.3     446.3     446.3     4L6.3
COSTS (wS$'"000)
Pro>duction & Selling Costs - Copra          27.8     27.8     27.8     27.8       27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27,8     27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8      27.8
Production & Selling Costs - Cocoa                                      25.2       44.2      44.2      44.2     44.2      44.2      44.2      44.2      44.2      44.2      44.2      44.2
Fertilise 790 Ac Coconuts                     -       3.6       3.6      3.6        3.6      23.7      23.7      23.7      23,7     23.7      23.7      23.7      23.7      23.7      23.7
Plant 350 Ac Cocoa                           62.9    63.9      29.8     31.4       32.2      32.6      26.4      26.3      26.4     26.3      26.4      26.3      26.4      26.3      -S.4
Fertiliser Investment Costx                  8.8     31.3      28.2     28.6       28.9
Fencing                                      18.5     18.5
Water Supply                                  -       73.9
Roads                                       54.7
Buildings                                    15.1    15.1      15.0
Vehicles & Equipment                        66.9       -        -        -          -        31.2       -         -       65.0       -        31.2
Cantingencies                               68.0     82.5      38.3     38.2       45.3
Total Costs - With Project                   322.7    316.6    342.1    154.8      182.0     159.5     122.1     122.0     187.1    122.0     153.3     122.0     122.1     122.0     122.1
Incremental Incose                             0        0      23.2     80.6      160.2     218.5     262.6    308.3     326.2     320.9     328.8     328.8     328.8    328.8     328,8
incremental Costs                          294.9    288.8     114.9    127.0     154.2     A31.7      94.3      94.2     159.3      94.2     125.5     94.2      94.3      94.2      94.3
fSee Cash Flov                            (294.9)  (288.8)    (91.7)   (46.4)       6.0      868     168.3     214.1     166.9     226.7     203.3     234,6    234.5     234.6     234.5 af
Financial Internal Rate of Return:    15.7'                                                                 a/ Net Incremnt In:
Years 16 & 21:  203.3
Years 17 & 25: 169.5
.,,



TAILE I &:  ' INAtNCIAL ANALYSEIS - FALEATA ESTATE
1981
MtEM/YEAR                                 1         2         3        4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12        13        14      15-25
Z1r1,01VT PROJECT
N;CWYE (WS$'000)
Coconu, ts
Ccpra Yield (lb/acre)                         774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       774       771.
Prcduction, 1,128 ac (tons)                   390       390       390      390        390       390       390       390       390       390       390      390        390       390       390
Price -er ton                                 329       315       331       347       363       357       351       345       339       333       333      333        333       333       333
Total Tncome - Copra                        128.3     122.9     129.1     135.3     141.6     139.2    .136.9     134.6     132.2     129.9     129.9     129.9     129.9     129.9     129.9
Cattle Inco.e                                22.4      2 2.4     22.4     22.4      22.4      22.4      22.4       22.4 4    2Z.4     i2.4       22.4     22.4       22.4     22.4      22.4
.otal Income Without Pr.ject                 150.7      145.3     151.5    157.7     164.0     161.6     159.3      157.0     154.6     152.3     152.3    152.3     152.3      152.3    152.3
SJTS (ws$'000)
Production & Selling Costs - Copra            39.7      39.7      39.7     39.7      39.7      39.7       39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7     39.7       39.7      39.7     39.7
Cattle Husbandry                               1.8       1.    8             1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8
otal Costs Without Project                    41.5      41.5      41.5     41.5      41.5      41.5       41.5      41.5      41.5      41.5      41.5     41.5      41.5       41.5     41.5
1Thn ?2ROJECT
:sC'.ME (SS$°000)
Coconu ts
-?ra Yield (lb/acre)                          774       774     1,000     1,250     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500    1,500      1,500     1,500
Prcduction, 1,128 ac (tons)                   390       390       504      630        755       755       755       755       755       755       755      755        755      755       755
Prize aer ton                                 329       315       331      347       363       357       351        345       339       333       333      333       333       333       333
rotal Income - Copra                        128.3      122.9    166.8     218.6     274.1     269.5     265.0     260.5     255.9     251.4     251.4     251.4     251.4     251.4     251.4
ocoa
50 Acres New Plantings
Yield (lb/acre)                                -         -         -         -       180       450       675        900     1,200     1,3G0     1,400     1,400     1,400     1.,-30    1,'00
Production (tons)                              -         -         -         -        4         10        15         20        27       29        31        31        31        31        31
100 Acres New Plancin a
Yield (lb/acre)                                -         -         -        -         -        180       450       675        900     1,200    1,300     1,400     1,400     1,400     1,400
Production (tons)                              -         -         -         -         -         8        20         30        40       54        58        62        62        62        52
rct. Cocoa Production                          -         -         -         -          4        18        35        50        67        83        89        93        93        43        93
Price ner ton                                   -         -                  -      1.851     1,729     1,606     1.483      1,360     1,237    1.237     1.237     1,237      t,237    1,237
Income from Cocoa                               -         -         -        -        7.4      31.1      56.2      74.2       91.1     102.7    110.1     115.0     115.0     115.0     115.0
income from Cattle                            22.4      29.6      36.8     44.0      52.8      52.8      52.8      52.8       52.8     52.8      52.8      52.8      52.8      52.3      52.8
Total Income With ProJect                     130.7     152.5     203.6    262.6     334.3     353.4     374.0     387.5     399.8     406.9     414.3     419.2     419.2     419.2     419.2
COSTS (2.S$'000)
Production & Selling Costs - Copra            39.7      39.7      39.7     39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7       39.7     39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7      39.7
Production & Selling Costs - Cocoa              -         -         -        -        6.3      18.9      18.9       18.9      18.9     18.9      18.9      18.9      18.9      18.9      18.9
Cattle Husbandry                               1.9       2.4       2.9      3.5       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0
Cost of Pasture Improvenent                     -        3.9      4.5       5.1       4.8       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7       8.7
Plantin3 150 Acres Cocoa                        -       15.8      35.7      12.7     13.3      17.6      15.5      11.3       11.4     11.3      11.4      11.3      11.4      11.3      11.4
Fertilise 1,128 Ac Coconuts                     -        5.1       5.1      5.1       5.1      33.8      33.8      33.8       33.8     33.8      33.8      33.8      33.8      33.8      33.8
Investment Cost of Fertiliser                   -       32.3     37.4      37.0      38.8        -
Fencing                                         -       13.3      13.3       -
Water Supply                                  54.3      27.6        -        -
Roads                                           -       58.1       -         -
3uildings                                       -       38.8      38.7       -
Vehicles & Equipment                          92.6        -         -        -         -       39,2                           73.4       -       59.2
Contingencies                                 44.0      78.0      67.4     35.9      43.4
Total Costs With Project                     232.5     315.0     244.7     139.0     155.4     181.9     120.6     116.4     189.9     116.4     175.7     116.4     116.5     116.4     116.5
Incre:rental Income                             0        7.2     52.1     104.9     170.3     191.8     214.7     230.5     245.2     254.6     262.0     266.9     266.9     266.9     266.9
Increcental' Costs                           191.0     273.5    203.2      97.5     113.9     140.4      79.1      74.9      148.4     74.9     134.2      74.9      75.0      74.9      75.0
St Ch Flo                                  (191.0)   (266.3)   (151.1)     7.4      56.4      51.4     135.6     155.6      96.8     179.7     127.8     192.0     191.9     192.0     191.9
Financial Internal Rate of Return: 1S.Z                                                                        a/ Net Increment In:
Years 16 & 21 : 132.7
Years 17 & 25    118.5
(D CD
Tr



TABLE 19. FINANCTAL ANALYSIS -CASALA fSTATE
1981.
ITEM/YEAR                                    1          2          3          4          5         6           7         8          9         10         1.1        12         13         14       15-25
.'3'T'iT PROJECT
ticCCx (14S$ COO)
Copra Yield (lb/acre)                               177        177       177        177        L77        177        177        177        177        177        177        177        177       177       1,77
7r~~'4uction, 392 at (tons)                         31         31         31         31         31         31         31         31         31         31        31         31         31         31         31
Price per ton M1J5)                                329        315        331        347        363        357        351        345        339        333       333        333.-      333        333        333
-income from Coprz                                 10.2        9,8       10.3       10.8       11.3       lilt       10.9       10.8      10.5       10.3       10.3       103        10.3       10.3       10.3
Cozaa Yield (blbacre)                              301        301        301        301        301        301        301        301        301        301       301        301.       301        301        331i
P:  e  c                                                             -$230 229  ,1  l8 ,851-  17 29  1.606        1,D.60     1     ____ 1,237    1."''       1,237      1,237      :.z2 '
1--:fro-i Cnzoa                               25.5       24.7       23.7       21.8       20.4       19.0       17.7       16.3       15.0       13.6      13.6                  i,.6       13.6        .
'j noelftotPoect                            35.7       34.5       34.0       32.6      31.7       30.1      2,8.6       2).        25j         3.9       23.9..                          2).15      _2
Frz-duction & Selling Costs - Copra               13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13,8       13.8       13,0      13.8       13.n3      13.8       13.?       i7.P
Prodaiction & Selling Copts - Cacon               10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10,3      10.3       ..0 3      10.3       1.0.3      X.0.
irotal Costs Without Pro;ect                       24.1       24.1       24.1       24.1.      24.1       24.1       24,1       24.1      24.1       24.1       24.1       24,1       24.1       24Al       2-..
'7TV PROJECT
.NOCHE (,.JS$'000)
zcpo-3 Yield (blbacre)                            177        1.77       275        475        600       600        600        600        600        600        600        600        600       600       '600
Productio,-n. 392 ac (tons)                        31         31         48         83        105        105        105        105        1.05      105        105        1.05       105        1.05       105
Price pet ton - !L4S$                             329        31.5       331        347        363        357        351       345        339        333        333        333        333        333       333
Income from Copra                                1.0.2       9.8       15.9       28.8      38.1       37.5       36.9       36.2       35.6       35.0       35.0       35,0       35.0      35.0       35.0
Cocoa:
"=kgres Existing Cocoa
Cocoa Yield (1b/acr.)                              301        430        480        480        480        480        480        480       480        480        480        4R0        48Q0       480       480
production -tons                                    11          15        17         1.7        17         17         17         17         I 7       17         17         17         17         17         17     N
100 Acres Neil Plantings
Yf.ld (Ib/scre)                                    -          -          -          -          -         180       450        675        900      1, 200     1.300      1,400      1,400     1,400O     1,400
Production                                         -          -          ---8                                       20          30        40         54         58         62         62        62         52      £
80 -9res NewPlanting
Yield (lb/ acre                                    -          -          -          ---                             180       450        675        900      1,200      1,300      1,400     1,400      1,400
Production                                         -          -          -          -          -          -           6         16        24         32         43         46         50        50         50
Total Cocoa Production                              it         15         17         17         17         25         43         63        81        103        118        125        129        129       129
j'rice per ton                                   2,320      2.248      2,115      1.983      1,851     1.729      1.606      1,483      1.360      1.237      1,237      1.237      1,237     1,237      1,237
Income frosm Cocoa                                25.5       33.7       36.0       33.7       31.5-     43.2       69.1       93.4      110.2      127.4      146.0      154.6      159.6     159.6      159.6
Total Income With Project                          35.7       43.5       51.9       62.5       69.6      80.7       106.0      129.6     145.8      162.4      181.0      189.6      194.6     194.6'     194.6
M~STS (WJS$'ODO)
Production & Selling Costs - Copra                13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8      13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8       13.8      13.8       13,8
Prodiction & Selling Costs - Cocoa                10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3       10.3      23.0       33.1       33.1       33.1       33.1       33.1       33.1       33.1      33,1       33.1
Fertilise 392 Ac Coconuts                           -         1.8        1.8        1.8        1.8       11.7       11.7       11.7       11.7      11.7       1.1.7      11.7       11.7      11.7       11.7
Fertilise 82 ac Cocoa                                -        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        1.8        1.8        1.8        1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8       1L8         1.8        1.8
Planting 180 acres of Cocoa                         -          -        31.5       33.5       15.3      20.5       21.1       16.9       13.6       13.5       13.6       13.5       13.6      1.3.5      13.6
Fertiliser Investment Coats                         -        11.3       15.7       17.2      1.5.5
Fencing                                             -          -         9.8
Water Supply                                       9.6        9.4         -          -
Roads                                               -        53.6         -          -
Su 1z! tngs                                       15.6       15.5       15.4
Vehicles & Equipement                             50.4         -          -          --                 25.2                     -       44,9         -        25.2
Contingencies                                     22.6       36.8       37.3       31.7      23.1
'otai Costs With Projlect                         122.3      152.9      136.0     108.7       80.2       96.0       81.5       77.3      118.9       73.9      99.2       73,9       74.0       73.9       74.0
Incren-ental Income                                  0        9.0       1.7.9      29.9      37.9       50.6       77.4      102.5      120.3      138.5      157.1      165.7     170.7      170.7      170.7
Incremental Costs                                 98.2      128.8      111.9      84.6       56.1       71.9       57.4       53.2       94.8       49.8       75.1      49.8       49.9       49.8       49.9
N4et Cash FIov                                   (98.2)    (119.8)     (94.0)    (54.7)     (18.2)     (21.3)      20.0       49.3       25.5      88.7       82.0      115.9      120.8      120.9     1.20.8 &L
Financial Internal Rate of Return: 11.9%                                                                                    a/Nat Increment in:                                [
Years 16 & 21.:   95.6
years 17 & 25: 75.9
I  1



TABLZ 0: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS - TlANA'IMATO eSTATE
1961.
ITEM/YEAR                         I         2         3         4         5         6        7         8         9        10        tl       12        13        14      15-25
'ITHOCT PROJECT
tNCOE (WsSS'°°°)
930 Acres Coco&:
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                         279       279       279       279      279       279       279       279       279      279       279       279       279       279      2?9
Production (tons)                             115       115       115       115       115       115      115       115       115       115      115       115       115       115      115
Price per ton                               2.320     2.248     2.165     1.963     1.851    1.729     1.606     1.483     1.360    *1.237    1.237     1,237     1.237     ;,237     1,237,
Ircorne from Cocoa                          266.8     258.5     243.2    228.0     212.9     198.8     184.7     170.5     156.4     142.3    142.3     142.3     142.3     142.3    142.3
159 Acres Coconuts:
Copra Yield (lb/ac)                           774       774       774      774       774       774       774       776       774      774       774       774       774      774       774
Production (tons)                              55        55        55       55        S5        55        55        55        55       55        S5        55        S5       ;5        ;5
Price per ton                                 329       315       331       347      363       357       351       345       339      333       333       333       333      333       333
incone from Copra                            18.1      17.3      18.2      19.1     20.0      19.6      19.3      19.0      18.6     18.3      18.3      18.3      18.3     18.3      18.3
Total Income Without Project                 284.9     275.8     261.4    247.1     232.9     218.4     204.0     189.5     175.0     160.6    160.6     160.6     160.6     160.6    16'.6
COSTS
1rodution & Selling Cocoa                  117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4    llJ.4     117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4    117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4    117.-     117.4
Pruning (4.0 .:)                              9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2
Production & Selling Copra                    5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6
Total Costs Without Project                  132.2     132.2    132.2     132.2     132.2     132.2     132.2     132.2     132.2    132.2     132.2    132.2     132.2     132.2     132.2
'WT PROJECT
ixCOME (WS$'000)
930 Acres Cocoa:
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                         279       430      480       480       480       480       480       480       480      480       480       480      480       480       480
Preduction (tons)                             115       179       199       199      199       199       199       199       199      199       199       199       199      199       199
Inco.  from Cocoa                           266.8     402.4    420.9     394.6     368.3     344.1     319.6     295.1     270.6    246.2     246.2     246.2    246.2     246.2     246.2
159 Acres Coconut:
Copra Yield (lb/acre)                         774       774     1,000    1,250     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1.500    1,500     1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500     1,500      'z
Production (tons)                              55        55       71        89       106       106       106       106       106      106       106       106      106       106       106
Incene from Copria                           18.1      17.3     23.5      30.9     - 38.5     37.8      37.2      36.6     35.9      35.3      35.3     35.3      35.3      35.3      35.3
Total Income With Project                    284.9     419.7    444.4     425.5     406.8     381.9     356.8     331.7    306.5     281.5     281.5    281.5     281.5     281.5     281.5
COST5 (WS$'000)
production & Selling Costs - Cocoa          117.4     117.4      17.4    117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4     117.4    117.4     117.4     117.4    117.4     117.4     117.4
Production & Selling Costs - Copra            5.6      5.6       5.6       5.4       5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6      5.6       5.6       5.6       5.6
Pruning Cocoa                                 9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2
Fertilise 930 Ae Cocoa                         -        4.2      4.2       4.2       4.2      19.8      19.8      19.8      19.8     19.8      19.8      19.8      19.8     19.8      19.8
Fertilise 159 Ae Cocornts                      -        0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7       4.7       4.7       4.7      4.7       4.7       4.7      4.7       4.7       4.7       4.7
Fertiliser Invetment Costs                     -       19.6      19.6     19.6      19.6
Fencing                                        -         -       16.0
Water Supply                                 10.1      10.1
Roads                                          -         -      53.8
suildings                                    21.2      21.2     21.1
Vehicles & Equipment                        120.5        -        -         -         -       50.5        -        -       86.6        -       50.5
Contingencies                                45.5      22.3     57.7      14.7      17.2
Total Costs With Project                     329.5     210.3    305.3     171.4     173.9     207.2     156.7     156.7    243.3     156.7     207.2    156.7     156.7     156.7     156.7
Incrcmental Income                              0     143.9     183.0    178.4     173.9     163.5     152.8     142.2    131.5     120.9     120.9    120.9     120.9     120.9     120.9
Incrental Costs                             197.3      78.1     173.1     39.2      41.7      75.0      24.5     24.5     111.1      24.5      75.0     24.5      24.5      24.5      24.5
-et Cash Flow                               (197.3)     65.8      9.9     139.2     132.2      88.5     128.3     117.7     20.4      96.4      45.9     96.4      96.4      96.4      96.4 a/
Financial Internal Rate of Return: 39.9%                                                                      a/ Net Increment In:                                    >
Years 16 & 21   45.9                             Q r'
Years 17 & 25     9.8                            i(D
1S g



TAILE 2 1: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS - LESEA ESTATE
1981
ITEM/YEAR                           1         2         3        4          5         6         7        8         3         10       11        12        13        14       15-25
WITHOUT PROJECT
INCOtE
Coconuts - 150 Ac
Copra Yield (lb/acre)                     424       424       424      424       424        424      424       424       424       424       424       424       424       424       424
Production (tons)                          28        28        28       28        28        28        28        28        28        28        28        28        28        28        28
Price per ton                             329       315       331      347        363       357      351       365       339       333       333       333       333       333       333
Total Income from Copra                   9.2       8.8       9.3       9.7      10.2      10.0      9.8       9.7       9.5       9.3       9.3       9.3       9.3       9.3       9-3
Cocoa - 150 AC
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                     319       303       288      274       260       247       235       223       212       201       191       181       172       163       155
Produiction - tons                         21        20        19        18        17        17       16        15        14        13        13        12        12        11        10
Price per ton                           2,320     2.248     2,115     1.983    1[851      1,729     1,606    1.483     1.360     1,237     1,237     1,237     1.237     t,237     1,237
Total Income - Old Cocoa                 48.7      45.0      40.2      35.7      31.5      29.4     25.7      22.2       19.0     16.1      16.1      14.8      14.8      13.6      12.4
Cocoa - 75 Ac
Yield (lb/acre)                            -         -         60       150       225      300       350       400       400       400       400       400       400       400       400
Production - tons                          -         -         2         5         8         10       17        13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13
Total Income - Nlew Cocoa                  -         -        4.2       9.9      14.8      17.3      19.3      19.3     17.7      16.1      16.1      16.1      16.1      16.1      16.1
Total Income - Cocoa                       48.7      45.0      44.4     45.6      46.3      46.7      45.0      41.5      36.7      32.2      32.2      30.9      30.9      29.7      28.5
rotal Income Without Project               57.9      53.8     53.7      55.3      56.5      56.7      54.8      51.2      46.2      4L.5     41.5      40.2      40.2      39.0      37.8
COSTS:
Production & Selling Costs - Copra        5.3       5.3       5.3      5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3
Production & Selling Costs - Cocoa       18.9      18.9     28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4     28.4
Pruning Cocoa                             0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8
Total Costs Without Project                25.0      25.0     34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5      34.5-     34.5      34.5     34.5      34.5
VITH PROJECT
INCOME
150 Acres Cocoa/Coconuts                  57.9      53.8     49.5      45.4      41.7      39.4      35.5      31.9      28.5      25.4      25.4      24.1     24.1      22.9      21.7
Cocoa   75 Acres
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                      -         -        120      30Q       450       600       675       750       800       800       800      800       800       800       800   t>
Production - tons                          -         -         4        10        15        20        23        25        27        27        27        27       27        27        27   'V
Price per ton                              -         -     2.063     1.957     1.851     1.729     1.606     1,483     1.360     1.237     1.237     1.237     1.237    1,237     1.237
Income from New Cocoa                       -         -       8.3      19.6      27.8      34.6      36.9      37.1      36.7      33.4     33.4      33.4      33.4      33
Total Income With Project                  57.9      53.8     57.8      65.0      69.5      74.0      72.4      69.0      65.2      58.8      58.8      57.5     5 75      56.3      55.1
COSTS:
Production & Selling Costs - Copra        5.3       5.3      5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3  -    5.3      5.3       5.3       5.3       5.3
Production & Selling Costs - Cocoa       18.9      18.9     28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4     28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4      28.4
Prune Cocoa                               0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8       0.8
Fertilise 75 Ac Cocoa                      -        0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6      1.6       1.6
Fertiliser Investment Costs                -        1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3
Fencing                                    -         -        -        4.7
Water Supply                               -       25.7      9.8        -
Roads                                           -            7.3
Buildings                                  -      52.0        -
Vehicles & Equipment                      8.8        -        -         -         -       10.7             -              -                 10.7
Continencies                              2.6      31.7      9.4       3.8       1.1
Total Costs With ?ro1iect                  36.4     136.0     62.6      44.6      37.2      46.8      36.1      36.1      36.1     36.1      46.8      36..1     36.1      36.       36.1
Incremental Income                          0        0       4.1       9.7      13.0      17.3      17.6      17.8      19.O     17.3      17.3      17.3      17.3      17.3      17.3
Incremental Costs                        11.4     111.0     28.1      10.1       2.7      12.3       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6      12.3      1.6       [61.6               1.6
.Nt lash tLom                           (11.4)   (111.0)   (24.0)     (0.4)     10.3       5.0      16.0      16.2      17.4     15.7       5.0      15.7      15. 7     15.7      15. 7
Ftnanctal Internal Rate of Return: 5.52                                                          a/Net Increment In:                                       1
Years 16 & 21:   5.0                                    ro
*8 I^ P
A          I.
;         C



TAILE Z2: FINANCIAL ANALYS IS- TAFAir.ATA ESTATE
1981
ITEM/YE-AR                           1          2         3          4          5         6          7         8          9         10        11         12        13         14       L5-25
WITHOUT PROJECT
Coconuts - 693 ac
Copra Yield (LbTacre                             100       200       3C0        400        500        600       700        700        700       700        700       700        700        700       700
Production (tons)                                31.        62         93       124        1.55       186       217        217       2 L7       21.7       217       21.7       217       217        21.7
?ice per ton                                   329        315       331        347        363        357       351        345       339        333       333        333        333       333        333
icome from Copra                              1.0.2      19.5      30.8       43.0       56.3      66.4       76.2       74.9      73.6       72.3       72.3      72.3       72.3      72.3       72.3
Cocoa - 693 Ac
Cocoa Yield (lb/acre)                          308        3b8        308       308        308        308       308        308       308        308        308       308        308       308        305
Poduction - tons                                95         95         95        95         95                         95 9  59                   59                   59                    59
Pice per ton                                 2.320      2,246     2,115      1.983      1,851      L,729     1.606      1.483     1.360      1,237      1,237     1.237      1.237     1.237      1.237
icone from Cocoa                             220.4      21.3.6    200.1.     188.4      175.8     1.64.3     1.52.6     140 .9    129.2      117.5      117.5     117.5      117.5     1.17.5     117.5
Total Income Without Project                    230.6      233.1     230.9      231.4      232.1      230.7     228.8      21.5.8    202.8      1.89.8     189.8     189.8      189.8     189.8      189.8
COSTS
Production & Selling Costs - Copra              24.4       24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4      24.4       24..-.
tmrzduction & Selling Costs - Cocoa             87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5      837. 5     87.5       87.5      87.5       f 7.i
Pruning Cocoa                                     5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0
Total Costs Without Project                     1.16.9     1.16.9     116.9     116.9      116.9      116.9     1.16.9     116.9     116.9      116.9      116.9     11.6.9     116.9     116.9      116.9
WIYPROJECT
I\NCCIE
Coconuts - 693 Ac
Cpra Yield (lb/acre)                            100       200       400        600        800     1,000      1,200      1,200     1,200      1,200     1,200      1,200      1,200     1,200      1.zoo
Pro-duction - tons                               31.        62        124       186        258       319        371        371       371        371.      371        371        371       371.       371
Price per ton                                   329        315       331        347        363       357        351        345       339        333       333        333        333       333        333
Incoc:e from Copra                              10.2       19.5      41.0       64.5       93.4     1.10.3     1.30.2     128.0      M?.8      123.5     123.5      123.5      135  L23.5     123.5
Cocoa :- 693 Ac                                                                                                                                                                                               "4
Ccoa Yield (lb/acre)                           308        475        530       530        530       530        530        530       530        530       530        530        530       530        530   UL-
Production - tons                                95        147        164       164        164        164       1.64       164       164        164        164       164        164       t64        164
Pice per ton                                 2,320      2.248     2,115      1,983 .    1,851     1,729      1.606     1,483      1.360      1.237     1,237      1.237     1,237      1,237      1,237
Income from Cocoa                              220.4      330.5     346.9      325.2      303.6     283.6      263.4     243.2      223.0      202.9     202.9      202.9     202.9      202.9      202.9
Total Income With Project                       230,6      350.0      387.9     389.7      397.0     393.9      393.6      371.2     348.8      326.4     326.4      326.4      326.4     326.4      326.4,
OOSTS5:
Production & Selling - Coconut                  24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4      24.4       24.4       24.4
Production & Selling - Cocoa                    87.5       87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5       87.5
Prune Cocoa                                      5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0
Fertilise 693 Ac Coconuts                          -        3.2        3.2       3.2        3.2       20.8      20.8       20.8      20.8       20.8      20.8       20.8       20.8      20.8       20.8
Fertilise 693 Ac Cocoa                             -        3.2        3.2       3.2        3.2      14.8       14.8       14.8      14.8       14.8      14.8       14.8      14.8       14.8       14.8
Fertiliser Investment Costs                        -       29.2       29.2      29.2       29.2
Fencing                                           -          -          -        3.7
Water Supply                                       -       23.7         --
Roads                                              -         -          -       43.8
luildings                                        12.5      12.5       12.5        -
Vehicles & Equipment                            54.6         -          -         -          -       31.2         --                 44.6         -       31.2
Contingencies                                   20.1.      28.7      24.1       49.9       24.9
Total Costs With Project                        204.1      217.4      189.1     249.9      177.4     183.7      152.5      152.5     197.1      152.5     183.7      152.5     152.5      152.5      152.5
Incremental Income                                 0      116.9     1.57.0     158.3      1.64.9    163.2      164.8     1.55.4     146 .0     136.6     136.6      136.6     136.6      136.6     136.6
Incremental Cost                                87.2      100.5      72.2      133.0      60.5       66.8       35.6      35.6       80.2     *35.6       66.8       35.6      35.6       35.6      35.6
Net Cash Flow                                   (87.2)     16.4       84.8      25.3      104.4       96.4     129.2      119.8      65.8      101.0      69.8      1.01.0    101.0      101.0      101.0 at
Financial Internal Rate of Return: 62.4%                                                                                 a! Net Increment In:                                          .dI
Years 16 & 21     69.8                                     Q-
Years 17 & 25     56.4



ZABLE 23     WESTERN SAMDA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
SOAP PROCESSINC FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985       1986        1987       1988        1989       1990        1991
YEAR 0    YEAR 1      YEAR 2     YEAR 3      YEAR 4     YEAR 5      YEAR 6     YEAR 7     YER 8       YEAR 9      YEAR 10    YEARS 11-25
SALES V0LLSS (ToNS)                          1140      1225        1400       1500        1500       1500        1500       1500
Toiler Soap                                 115       150         200        250        285         320        355         400
Soap Powder                                 -         100        ISO         200        250         300        350         400
ALES (a S Soap                            835000     896000    1019000     1091000    1091000     1091000    1091000     1091000
Toilet Soap                             230000     300000     400000     500000      570000      640000     710000     800000
Tole Sow   p                                -      150000     216000     288000      360000     429000      498000     570000
Soap Poler                             1065000    1346000    1635000    1879000     2021000    2160000     2299000    2461000
LESS: COST1 OF SALES
Sop                             667800    718200     819000      879000     879000      879000     879000      879000
TL undr                                 175700    229200      305600     382000      435500     489000     542500      611200
Toilet Soap                                       130         560        260
Soap Powder                                -      103100      154600     206200      257800     309300     360900      412400
843500   1050500     1279200    1467200     1572300    1677300    1782400     1902600
Factory Ove1head                          133700    176900      200300     222300      234200     247300     258400      273900
Total Coats of Production                 977200   1227400     1479500    1689500    1806500     1924600    2040800     2176500
Net Profit Before Depreciation             87800    118600     155500      189500     214500      235400     258200      284500
Leap: Profit Without Project               87800     87800       87500      87800      87800       87800      87800       87800
Net Incremental Cash Fl                      -       30800      67700      101700     126700      147600     170400      196700     196700      196700     196700
Investmnt - Plant                        938370
- Vehicles                     17045                                                   28125                                                    28125
Total Investment Coat                    955415
NET CASH F                           (95S415U     30800      67700     101700      126700     119475      170400     196700      196700     196700      168575v-   196700
FIRR    -   13.7n                                                      al Year 1S - 168575
I-0
A          A,



TABLE 24:    WESTERN SAIA TRUST ESTATES CORPORATION
COCONUT STEX UTILIZATION COHPONENT
YEAR               0 (1981)        1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13*     14+     15     .0
l. ~evenue                                                                    89747   89747  121945   121945  121945  155335  155335 155335  155335  155335  155335  155335  155335  155335 155325 155335
2. 'raduction Cost-/
i)  Labor                                                                 11136   11136   13920   13920   13920   16704   16704   1670L  16704   16704   16704   16704
Li) Fuel, Materials & Supplies                                            20750   20750   25937    25937  25937   31494    31494  31494   31494   31494   31494   31494
*.tl)  Administrative Overhead                                              1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689    1689
TotaL Production Cost                                      33575   33575   41456   41456   41456   49987   49887   49&87   &9887  49887   49887   49887   49857   49887   49887 49887
3. :nvestment Cost                                             FC     LC
i)  Civil Works                                           2940   24810     -        -       -       -       -      -        -       -      -       -       -       -
ii)  Equipment & Spares                                  113070     -       -      3215      -      -     41215     -        -     32tS           38000    3215     -              3215   38000 41215
'it4  Consultant's Services                                21000    4595   25595
Sub-total                       137010   29405   25595    3215     -       -     41215             -      3215     -    38000    3215              -     3215   38000
4. Fhysical Concingencies
i)  Civil Works (157)                                      441    3722
Li) Equipment & Spares (107.)                             11307                     322                    4122                     322            3800     322                     322    3800  4122
5. Price Escalation                                           17402    3722            1125                   22256                    1736           20520    1736                    1736   20520 22256
investment plus Physical & Price
Contingencies                                           166160   36849   25595    4652      -       -    67793     -       -      5273           62320    5273                    5273   62320 67591
6. Net Incremencal Cashflow                                     (203.009      30577   51520   80489   80489   12696  105448  105448  100175  105448   43128  100175  105448  105448 100175    43128 37837
FMU - 31%
a! In years 3 to 5, costs of labor, fuel, materials and supplies
were increased by 25% from previous years to match the increase
in timber volume processed. For years 6-25, these costs were                                                                                                                             ' a
increased by 20Z from the previous year (Year 5) for the same
reason.                                                                                                                                                                                     o
* Years 13, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24 & 25 have similar cashflows.
+ Years 14, 17 & 23 have similar cashflova.



TABLE 25: FI!AtICIAL AN4ALSIS 0! ISTEC :COHOINNT (WS$000)
lavestment and                . rncremental
Re~2acemont Costs               yesi2. Costs....        Total Inersimetal  Costs      Thetrmental Benefit*             Zftt Casih Flow.
Soap Pro-   Coco,      °     Soap Pro-   Coca              Soap Pro-   Coco             Soap Pro-   Coco             Soap Pro-   Coco     Total -et
YEiAR                      xtate. ces.mR 5e           Estates-   cessing    Stet.  Estotaad   cessing     Stem  tstat-e     ceasing    St"    Estatezy    ceasing   Stem     Cash Ftow
l                      1347.1       955.4    203.0      0.1                       1347.2      955.4    203.0                                 (1347.2)  ( 955.4)   ( 203.0)  (2505.6)
2                       1425.6                25.6       1.2    250.2      33.;   1426.8      250.2      59.2    284.2     281.0       93.1  (1142.6)     30.8       30.1   (1077.9)
3                        915.8                 4.6       2.3     252.1     33.6    918.1      252.1      38.2    469.8     319.8       89.7  ( 448.3)     67.7       51.5   ( 329.1)
5                        689.6                          28.7     210.0     41.5    718.3      210.0      41.5    630.2     311.1      122.0  ( 88.1)      101.7      S05S      94.1
5                       697.4                           54.5     117.0     41.5    751.9      117.0      41.5    811.0     243.7      122.0     59.1      126.7      80.5     Z66.3
6                        268.4       28.1     67.8     417.3    218.L      41.5    68S.?      146.2     109.3    900.3     265.7      122.0    214.6      119.5      12.7     346.P
7                                                      43f0.7    116.2     49.9    438.7      116.2     49.9    1010.7     286.6      155.3    572.0     170A.      105.4     847.8
8                                                      458.9     135.7     49.9    &58.9      135.7      49.9    1133.9    332.4      155.3    675.0      196.7     105,4     977.1
9                       339.9                  5.3    "4474      135.7     49.9    787.3      135.7     55.2    1226.8     332.4      155.4   439.5      196.7      100.2     736.4
10                                                     436.6     135.7      49.9    436.6      135.7     49.9    1271.2     332.4      155.3   834.6      196.7      105.4    1136.7
1i                       268.4        28.1    62.3     435.1     135.7      49.9    703.5     163.6     112.2    1367.3     332.4      155.3   663.8      168.6       43.1    875.5
12                                              5.3    432.6     135.7      49.9    432.6      135.7     55.2    1446.3     332.4      155.4  1013.7      196.7      100.2    L310,6
13                                                     431.1     135.7      49.9    431.1      135.7     49.9    1482.7     332.4      155.3  1051.6      296.7      105.4    U53.1
14                                                     430.6     135.7    . 49.9    430.6      135.7     49.9    1528.0     332.4      155.3   1097.4     196.7      105.4    1399.5
15                                              5.3    428.5     135.7      49.9    428.5     135.7      55.2    1551.8     332.4      155.4  1123.3      196.7      100.2    1420,2
16                       268.4        28.1     62.3    428.5      35.7      49.9    696.9      163.8    112.2    1283.4     332.4      155.3   854.9      168.6       43.1    798,2
17                       339.9                         428.5     135.7      49.9    768.4     135.7      49.9    1196.2     332.4     15.3    427..      196.7      105.4     729.9
18                                              5.3    428.5     135.7      49.9    428.5     135.7      55.2    155.8     332.4      155.4  1123.3      196.7      10. 2   1420.2
19                                                     428.5     135.7      49.9    428.5      135.7     49.9    1551.8     332.4      155.3  1123.3      196.7      105.4    1425.4 ~
20                                                     428.5     135.7      49.9    426.5      135.7     49.9    1551.8     332.4      155.3  1123.3      196.7      105.4    1425.4*-
21                       268.4                 67.6    428.5     135.7      49.9    696.9     135.7     117.5    1283.4     332.4      155.3   .586.5     294.7       37.8    821.0
22                                                      428.5    135.7      49.9    428.5      135.7     49.9   151.8      332.4      155.3  1123.3      196.7      105.4   1425.4    a
73                                                     428.5     135.7      49.9    428.5     13S.7      49.9    1551.8     332.4     155.3   1123.3      196.7      105.4   1425.4
24                                              5.3     428.5    135.7      49.9    428.5      135.7     55.2    1551.8     332.4      155.4  1123.3      196.7      100.2   1420.2
23                                                     428.5     135.7      49.9    426.5      135.7     49.9    1196.2     332.4     155.3    767.7      196.7      105.4   1069.8
a:  Includes IaSEvC Overall facilities.                                                                 (L) FM     for 58TEC Estates        14.1t
Valuez used are in constant 1980                                                                     (it) FM   for Soup ProceeWi       - 13.71
1westerm Samoa Tals.                                                                                (Ui) Fin for Co4 Stm ProeessLn:       31.01
PIER FOR OVERALL WIEC aOtQP0I2  :  15.01                         .
.4w 4



TABLE 26   ECONOHIC ANALYSIS OF VWSTEC COMPONENT (WS$ '000)
Investment and                   Incremental
Replacement Costs                 Operating Costs      Total Incremental Coats        Incremental Benefits           Net   Cash   Flow
Soap Pro-   CoCo             Soap Pro-  Coco              Soap Pro   Coco              Soap Pro-  Coco             Soap Pro-   Coco     Total Set
Y-AR                    Estates/   ceasing     Setaf  Estatea. /  ceasing  Stem   Estatest!   ceasing   Stem   Estatee!/   ceasing   Stem   Estates-  cesing      Stem    Cash Flow
1                      1347.1     955.4     203.0     0.1                       1347.2       955.4    203.0                               (1347.2)   (955.4)   (203.0)   (2505.6)
2                      1425.6                25.6      1.1     235.2      30.3  .1426.7      235.2     55.9   346.3       281.0    89.8   (1080.4)     45.8      33.9    (1000.7)
3                       915.8                 4.6     2.1      237.0      30.3   917.9       237.0     34.9   5f2.4       319.8    89.7   ( 345.5)     82.8      54.8    ( 207.9)
4                       689.6                         28.1     197.4      37.4    717.7      197.4     37.4    771.3      311.7    122.0     53.6     114.3      84.6      252.5
5                       697.4                        52.5      109.9      37.4   749.9       109.9     37.4   992.6       243.7    122.0    242.7     133.8      84.6      461.1
6                       268.4      28.1      67.8    399.2     111.0      37.4   667.6       139.1    105.2   1102.0      265.7    122.0    434.4     126.8      16.8      577.8
7                                                   405.8      109.2      44.9   405.8       109.2     44.9   1237.0      286.6    155.3    831.2     177.4     110.4     1119.0
8                                                    424.5     127.6      44.9   424.5       127.6     44.9   1387.8      332.4    155.3    963.3     204.8     110.4     1278.5
9                       339.9                 5.3   413.8      127.6      44.9   753.7       127.6     50.2   1501.2      332.4    155.3    747.5    204.8      105.1     1057.4
10                                                   403.8      127.6     44.9    403.8       127.6    44.9   1515.9       332.4   155.3    1112.1    204.8      110.4     1427.3
11                       268.4      28.1      62.3   402.5      127.6     44.9    670.9       155.7    107.2  1558.7       332.4   155.3     887.8    176.7       48.1     1112.6
12                                             5.3   400.2      127.6     44.9    400.2       127.6    50.2   1681.3       332.4   155.3    1281.1    204.8      105.1     1591.0
13                                                   398.8      127.6     44.9    398.8       127.6    44.9   1723.7       332.4   155.3    1324.9    204.8      110.4     1640.0
14                                                   398.3      127.6     44.9    398.8       127.6    44.9   1176.2       332.4   155.3    1377.4    204.8      110.4    1689.6
15                                             5.3   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    50.2   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      105.1    1717.4
16                       268.4      28.1      62.3   396.4      127.6     44.9    664.8       155.7   107.2   1463.1       332.4   155.3     798.3    176.7       48.1    1023.1     -
17                       339.9                       396.4      127.6     44.9    736.3       127.6    44.9   1390.6       332.4   155.3     654.3    204.8      110.4     969.5    N)
18                                             5.3   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    50.2   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      105.1    1717.4    -
19                                                   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    44.9   1803,9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      110.4    1722.7
20                                                   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    44.9   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      110.4    1722.7
21                       268.4                67.6   396.4      127.6    .44.9    664.8       127.6    112.5  1463.1       332.4   155.3     798.3    204.8       42.8    1045.9
22                                                   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    44.9   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      110.4    1722.7
23                                                   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    44.9   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      110.4    1722.7
24                                             5.3   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6    50.2   1803.9       332.4   155.3    1407.5    204.8      105.1    t717.4
25                                                   396.4      127.6     44.9    396.4       127.6     U.9   1390.6       332.4   155.3     994.2    204.8      170.4    1309.4
a. Includes facilities for overall WSTEC facilities.                                                      (i) Economic Internal Rats of Return for Estates Component   19.1%
Values used are in constant 1980 Western Samoa Tals.                                                  (li)  Economic Internal Rsts of Return for Soap Processing    14.6%
component
(Mil) Economic Internal Rats of Return for Coco Stea component-  32.2%
PIRlk FOR OVERALL WSTEC O9APONENT  18.8%
5 P
05 Pm
-sJ



Appendix 13
Page 43
Table 27:                SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Change in   Rate of Change in
Variable    Return  Rate of Return Sensitivity -
Case                     (%)        (%)        (%)         Indicator *
A.    Financial Rates of Return
(i)  Base Case                           15.0
(ii)  Decrease in benefits       15        9.0        6.0           0.40
(iii) Increase in investment
cost                    10       13.3        1.7           0.17
(iv)  Increase iii    -     sts  12       12.4        2.6           0.22
(v) Delay in Imp]   -.          1 year   12.8        2.2
(vi)  Combination of >.                   11.0        4.0
B.    Economic Rates of Return
(i)  Base Case                           18.8
(ii) Decrease in benefits        15       11.2        7.6           0.51
(iii) Increase in investment
cost                   10       16.9        1.9           0.19
(iv)  Increase in 0 & M costs    12       16.0        2.8           0.23
(v) Delay in Implementation     1 year   16.4        2.4            -
(vi)  Combination of (iii & iv)           14.6        4.2
a! The Sensitivity Indicator shows the change in the rate of return to the
change in variable.



TABLE 28:      SUMMARY OF COSTS IN  WS $
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
YEAR 1            YEAR 2            YEAR 3             YEAR 4             YEAR 5        T  BASE COSTS        CONTINGENCIES        TOTAL COSTS
COMPONENT                             FC     LC        FC       LC        FC       LC         FC      LC         FC      LC        FC       LC       FC       LC         FC      LC
I. CIVIL WORKS (incld. facilities)
Central Extens ion Training Centre
at Nu'u                             48.0   39.0                                                                                  48.0     39.0
2 Modular Houses at Nu'u              90.0    10.0                                                                                 90.0     10.0
Farm Managers' House at Asou          19.5    16.0                                                                                 19.5     16.0
Field Labs at Togitagiga and Asau     11.4     9.6                                                                                 11.4      9.6
Plant Porpagation Unit at Togitogiga  25.0     7.0                                                                                 25.0      7.0
23 Field Extension Centres            33.5   45.1      33.5     45.1      33.5     45.1      33.5      45.1     20.1     45.1     154.1    225.5
Physical Contingencies       24.8    15.8      10.7     14.4     17.4      7.7      25.1      33.8     i5.1     33.8     348.0    307.1     93.1    105.5
Cost Escalation              26.5    10.0      8.1      11.3      11.7    15.8      14.7      19.8     10.8     24.3                        71.8     81.2
Sub-total       278.7   152.5      52.3     70.8      62.6     68.6      73.3      98.7    46.0    103.2.
1I. VEHICLES
2 Short-Wheel Base 4-W Drive Jeeps    13.2    2.0                                                                                  13.2     2.0
12 Small 4-W Drive Jeep Trucks       58.8     4.8                                                                                 58.8      4.8
1 4-W Drive Double Cab                6.0     0.8                                                                                  6.0      0.8
Physical Contingencies        7.8    0.8                                                                                  78.0      7.6      7.8      0.8
Cost Escalation              12.6     1.2                                                                                                   12.6      1.2
Sub-total        98.4     9.6
III. .AICHINERY & EQUIPEENT
Farm Equipment for Extension Centres   1.8              1.8                1.8                2.8                                  8.2
Audio Visual Aids for Nu'u Ext. Centre 5.0                                                                                         5.0
2-65 HP Tractors and Attachments     42.0     3.0                                                                                 42.0      3.0
Laboratory Equipment                  3.0                                                                                          3.0                                               1O
Office Equipment for Project Office   3.0      1.0                                                                                 3.0      1.0
Physical Contingencies      6.2     0.6       0.5                0.9                2.1                                  61.2     4.0       9.7      0.6
Cost Escalation              7.3    0.6       0.4                0.6                1.2                                                     9.5      0.6
Sub-total       68.3     5.2       2.7                3.3               6.1
IV. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
O & M at Togitogiga and Asau          5.0     5.6       5.0      5.6       5.0      5.6       5.0       5.6     5.0      5.6      25.0     28.0
0 & N for Vehicles                    17.0    3.0      17.0      3.0      17.0      3.0      17.0       3.0     17.0     3.0      85.0     15.0
0 & H at Nu'u Extension Centre                3.2                3.2                3.2                 3.2              3.2               16.0
O & H at Project Office                       2.5                2.5                2.5                 2.5              2.5               12.5
Cost Escalation             2.7     1.2      2.3      2.8       4.3      4.0       6.0       5.0      8.0      6.2     110.0    71.5      23.3     19.2
Sub-total                  24.7    15.5      24.3     17.1     26.3     18.3      28.0      19.3     30.0     20.5
V. CONSULTANTS
Extension Program Organiser          60.0    25.0      60.0     25.0      60.0     25.0      60.0      25.0                      240.0    100.0                                      > >
Banana Agronomist                    60.0    25.0      60.0     25.0      60.0     25.0                                          180.0     75.0
Tree Crop Agronomist                 60.0    25.0      60.0     25.0      60.0     25.0                                          180.0     75.0                                     5 8
Physical Contingencies      9.4     3.9     12.0      5.0      20.4      8.5       9.4       3.9                      600.0    250.0      51.2     21.3
Cost Escalation            32.4    13.5     38.4      16.0     58.0     24.2      22.4       9.3                                         151.2     63.0
Sub-total     221.8    92.4     230.4     96.0     258.4    107.7     91.8      38.2
VI. FELIOWSHIPS
120 Man-months                       24.0              24.0               24.0              24.0               24.0              120.0
15 Man-months short-term training     6.0              12.0                6.0               6.0                                  30.0
Cost Escalation           4.8               9.0               10.5               13.2               12.9             150.0               50.4
Sub-total     34.8              45.0              40.5               43.2               36.9
726.7   275.2     354.7    183.9     391.1   194.6     242.4     156.2    112.9    123.7    1347.2   640.2     480.6    293.4      1827.8    933.6
Physical   161.8    128.2
Price      318.8    165.2



