LDOCUMENTS   ICREDIT NUMBER 1080 WSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Development Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1080 WSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           C       .       14 , 1981, between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA (heeinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in financing Part B of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the Asian Development Bank
(hereinafter called the ADB) for a loan (hereinafter called the
ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds resources in an amount
equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(C) the Borrower has applied to the Australian Develop-
ment Assistance Bureau of the Australian Government (hereinafter
called ADAB) for a grant to assist in financing Part A of the
Project in an amount equivalent to two million dollars
($2,000,000) (hereinafter called the ADAB Grant);
(D) the Borrower, ADB, and the Association intend to enter
into an agreement (hereinafter called the Administration Letter)
making arrangements for the ADB to process applications for
withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided
severally by ADB and the Association and regulating certain other
matters of common interest in connection with such financing.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "DOA"
means the Borrower's Department of Agriculture and Forests and any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to --his Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1991, and ending
August 1, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project through DOA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing, agricultural and livestock practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of sub-section (a)
above, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out all
the obligations, to the extent relevant to Part B of the Project,
set forth in Schedules 5 and 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement. Notwith-
standing the termination of the ADB Loan Agreement or the Adminis-
tration Letter, the provision of this sub-section and the relevant
provisions of Schedules 5 and 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement shall
continue to remain in force and effect as if the said provisions
of Schedules 5 and 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement are fully set forth
Jerein.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause DOA to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its c.3t and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the'Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
late- date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and --he Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying .out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factoy to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of
the Project, of the implementing agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including
without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures for civil
works procured under force account on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be retained, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above for fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) cause to be furnished to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
such year, (A) certified copies of the said separate accounts for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by such
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) above
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) cause to


﻿be furnished to the Association such other information concerning
said separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Project facilities
to be operated, maintained and repaired in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural development
and maintenance and operational practices and shall provide the
funds, facilities, services and other resources for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
delegate to the ADB under an administration letter, for the
duration of such period as may be set forth in the Administration
Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities under
Articles III and IV of this Agreement and the Borrower shall
comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the ADB is
substituted for the Association therein. The obligation of the
Borrower to comply with Articles III and IV shall continue in
force and effect notwithstanding any termination or suspension of
such delegated functions and responsibilities to the ADB under the
Administration Letter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to pa-graph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of "ts Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADAB Grant or ADB Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project or any part
thereof shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the ADAB Grant or ADB Loan, respectively,
therefor; or
(ii) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not


﻿-7-
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent iith the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the fol.owing additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan, other than a condition precedent for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Borrower shall have obtained the ADAB Grant or shall
have made other arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to
assure the availability of the funds of the ADAB Grant.
Section 6.02. The date        7-riI       4 , 1981 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 25 years after the daLe of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Treasury Department
Government of Western Samoa
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINSEC                            233 Treasury SX
Apia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
L CLYl   Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                     530,000         55%
(2) Materials, vehicles             140,000         100% of for-
equipment and spares                           eign expendi-
tures, 100%
of local
expenditures
ex-factory and
65% of other
local expend-
itures
(3) Training and                    150,000         100% of for-
fellowships                                    eign expendi-
tures
(4) Consultants' services           590,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(5) Unallocated                     190,000
TOTAL         1,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures ther-tunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 11 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following two Parts:
Part A:   Estate Rehabilitation and Processing Facilities
1.   Rehabilitation of Vaipapa, Tausagi, Faleata, Casala,
Tuana'imato, Lesea and Taifaigata estates of WSTEC on Upolu by
undertaking the following activities to the extent relevant to
such estates:
(a) Construction of approximately 11 miles of new roads
and 20 miles of fences and upgrading of approximately 38 miles of
existing roads and 68 miles of old fences; the provision of
drinking water, pasture improvement and livestock equipment;
construction of housing; and improvement in transport and storage
facilities.
(b) Replanting of approximately 1,000 acres of coconut on
Vaipapa estate and application of fertilizer to approximately
3,750 acres on the remaining estates.
(c) Planting of approximately 1,000 acres of cocoa under
coconut on Vaipapa, Tausagi, Casala and Faleata estates; estab-
lishment of a cocoa nursery and application of fertilizer to
approximately 775 acres on the remaining estates.
(d) Provision of coffee processing facilities on Tuana'imato
estate of approximately 150 tons of parchment capacity per annum.
(e) Provision of general support facilities such as trans-
port vehicles and other equipment.
2.   Expansion of soap processing facilities on Vailele estate by
increasing capacity from approximately 1,000 tons per annum to
1,500 tons per annum.
3.   Improvement and expansion of coconut stem utilization facili-
ties on Vaitele estate to produce approximately 250,000 board feet
of lumber and 430,000 board feet of fences and fuelwood and
charcoal.
Part A of the Project will be carried out with the assistance
of approximately 108 man-months of consultant services.


﻿- 13 -
Part B:   Agricultural Research and Extension
1.   Establishment of a national extension center at the Nu'u on
Upolu with training and housing facilities.
2.   Provision of research and demonstration facilities for crop
experimentation centers at Togitogiga on Upolu and Asau on
Savai'i.
3.   Establishment of 21 field extension centers and upgrading of
2 existing field extension centers.
4.   Provision of general support facilities such as transport
vehicles and office equipment.
5.   Provision of approximately 135 man-months of fellowships for
overseas training of research and extension staff.
Part B of the Project will be carried out with the assistance
of approximately 120 man-months of consultant services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, goods and
civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with Schedule 4
of the ADB Loan Agreement, provided always that procurement
of such goods and civil works shall be from suppliers and contrac-
tors in countries in respect of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account may be made pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   i   L    day of     A
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


