Document of
The World ank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE" 1COPY
Report No.P2508-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND CREDIT
FOR THE
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IN
CAMEROON
June 6, 1979
This report may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CAMEROON
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CIJRRENCY UNIT                      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$  1                   =          CFAF 220 /1
CFAF 1,000               -          US$  4.6
CFAF 1,000,000           -          US$  4,545
1/ Floating exchange rate.
A.RREVIATIONS
MINEH                          Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MINEP              5           Ministry qf Economy and Planning
MOT                            Ministry of Transport
Regifercam         =           Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower - Bank Loan:    Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
- IDA Credit:   United Republic of Cameroon
Guarantor - Bank Loan:   United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                   US$27.0 million Bank Loan
US$20.0 million IDA Credit
Terms:                    Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace at
annual interest of 7.9 percent.
Credit: Standard
On Lending Terms:         The IDA Credit would be on-lent to REGIFERCAM by the
Government in local currency, on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan.
Project Description:      The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to
increase the efficiency of Regifercam's traffic
handling facilities in the Douala area by grouping
in one central location all the operations now
carried out in four different stations and to provide
sufficient capacity to handle traffic growth during
the period 1981 to 1985 and provide potential for
further capacity increases at low marginal cost; (ii)
to provide Regifercam with adequate locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance facilities to enable it to
handle the additional equipment being procured; (iii)
to improve the efficiency of the administrative and
technical departments; (iv) to assist the railway in
buying locomotive spare parts and railway equipment;
and (v) to improve and expand training facilities and
programs within Regifercam. The project has five
main components: the new Douala marshalling yard
including the infrastructure for a passenger station;
the provision of railway equipment; the expansion of
the workshops and the construction of new maintenance
facilities at Yaounde; the provision of technical
assistance for improvements in operations and manage-
ment and consulting services for feasibility and
engineering studies and supervision; and training.
The major risk is that Regifercam may face a short-
fall in freight traffic below forecast levels once
improvements are made to the Yaounde-Douala road.
Furthermore, additional tariff increases after FY1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclised without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to maintain Regifercam's financial equilibrium
without resorting to Government subsidies may be
difficult to implement if there is strong competi-
tion from the road. However, a project specific
sensitivity analysis indicates, under the most
pessimistic assumptions, that in FY1985 the railway
will be CFAF 1.7 billion (US$8 million), the equiv-
alent of about 25 percent of net operating revenues,
better off with the project than without it.
Estimated Costs 1/                                                            Foreign
US$ Million        as %
Local Foreign Total of Total
A.  New Douala station   4.4    12.8    17.2          74
B.  Railway equipment       -       3.7      3.7    100
C.  Workshop expansion   1.1        5.3      6.4      83
D. Yaounde locomotive
running shed         0.8      2.2     3.0      73
E. Yaounde rolling
stock maintenance
facilities            0.2     0.9      1.1      82
F. Operations and
management
assistance            0.7      3.8     4.5      84
G.  Training               1.2      3.6      4.8      75
Total base costs       8.4    32.3    40.7        79
Physical
contingencies         1.0      3.8     4.8       -
Price
contingencies         2.4      9.3    11.7       -
Total               11.8    45.4    57.2        79
H. Loan S4-CM
refinancing          -       2.0      2.0      100
TOTAL               11.8    47.4    59.2        80
Financing Plan:                                            US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                        -         27.0      27.0
IDA                         -         20.0      20.0
Regifercam                 11.8        0.4      12.2
Total                     11.8       47.4      59.2
1/   Net of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements: 1/                              US$ Million
Fiscal Year   1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual         14.2    23.6       8.8      0.4
Cumulative    14.2    37.8    46.6    47.0
Rate of Return: 18 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2353-CM dated June 19, 1979.
1/   Refinancing of Loan S4-CM is included in this disbursement schedule.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
REGIFERCAM WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON AND CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$27.0 million to the Regie Nationale des Chemins de
Fer du Cameroun (Regifercam) with the guarantee of the United Republic of
Cameroon and credit for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to the United
Republic of Cameroon to help finance the proposed Fourth Railway Project.
The Bank loan would have a term of twenty years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum; the development credit would
be on standard IDA terms. The IDA credit would be relent to Regifercam by
the Government in local currency on the same terms as the Bank loan. The
grant element corresponding to this Bank/IDA blend would be 42.41 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 1798-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a population of about 7.8 million (1977) and covers an
area of 475,000 km2. The country's natural resources are considerable and
varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions per-
nit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the forest areas of the south-
east contain large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising
potential for livestock development. The main opportunities for development
in Cameroon lie in the expansion of agricultural production, including for-
estry, and the processing of agricultural and forestry products for export.
Offshore oil and gas exploration has yielded modest results. Trade, trans-
portation and transit services are other important economic activities.
Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast underpopulated areas;
furthermore, the country's transport facilities also serve landlocked Chad.
As a result, a large port and adequate inland transport infrastructure are
essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and industry, and strengthening
Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
4.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), GDP increased at a high
rate of 7.6 percent per annum. However, during the Third Plan period



- 2 -
(1971-76), output grew at only 2.5 percent per annum for a number of reasons:
(i) the drought which affected the north of Cameroon in 1972 and 1973; (ii)
the impact of world-wide recession and unfavorable terms of trade; (iii)
serious difficulties in maintaining and expanding Cameroon's main tree crops,
compounded by the failure of producer prices to keep up with those of compet-
ing food cash crops and inputs; and (iv) the limited size, early saturation,
and slow expansion of the domestic market for import substituting manufac-
tures. The terms of trade improved during 1966-71 but deteriorated during
1971-76. As a result, gross domestic income increased faster than GDP, at
8.3 percent per annum during 1966-71, but grew by only 2.4 percent per annum
during 1971-76. Population growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per annum
in the 1960s, about 1.9 percent until the mid 1970s and about 2.3 percent from
1975-80. Per capita GNP reached about US$340 in 1977.
5.         During the 1960s, a confluence of a number of favorable factors led
to the high growth of output and income. Agriculture, accounting for about
one-third of GDP, increased at a rate of 5.5 percent per annum during 1966-71.
Except for cotton, rubber, millet/sorghum, most agricultural crops, livestock,
fishing and forestry experienced high growth rates thanks to favorable supply
and demand conditions such as high producer prices, high domestic income
growth, and rapid economic expansion abroad. For example, in the 1960s
although Cameroon already faced the problem of the increasing age of its cocoa
and coffee trees, supply was still able to increase reflecting the high level
of new planting during the 1950s and early 1960s. In addition, the Government
was able to maintain adequate cocoa producer prices even when export prices
dropped because of the reserves built up earlier in the cocoa stabilization
fund. Manufacturing and mining, accounting for 11 percent of GDP, increased
at 12 percent per annum during 1966-71 due mainly to the rapid development
of import substitution industries, particularly manufactured consumer goods,
facilitated by the high rate of domestic income growth and the availability of
foreign exchange for the purchase of inputs and intermediate goods. The high
rate of agricultural and industrial expansion was accompanied by the rapid
growth of construction activities, public administration and other services.
6.         In contrast, during the Third Plan period, a number of external and
internal factors led to a much reduced growth in output and income. Agricul-
tural growth declined to only 3.6 percent per annum, influenced particularly
by commercial crops (1.3 percent per annum, or less than one-tenth of the
preceding rate), while on the other hand, production of the staple food crops
expanded at about 6 percent per annum reflecting increasing demand and high
prices for such crops in urban areas. Growth in commercial forestry produc-
tion declined sharply due to reduced Western European demand, lower domestic
construction activities, and some transportation bottlenecks, while the
drought cut growth in livestock production (mainly cattle in the north) from
7.2 percent to 3.3 percent per annum. Cocoa and arabica coffee, accounting
for about 55 percent of commercial crops, actually decreased in production,
mainly because of the failure of cocoa and coffee producer prices to keep
up with those of competing food cash crops, the termination of the foreign
supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica coffee, the increasing age
of cocoa and coffee trees, unfavorable climatic conditions in some years, and
inadequate Government services to counter the black pod disease of the cocoa



-3-
trees. The record for the other main commercial crops was much better. The
declining trend in cotton experienced in the earlier Plan period was reversed
in large part through the efforts of SODECOTON, a specialized public enter-
prise; reversal from decline to growth in rubber and an acceleration in growth
of oil palm were facilitated by two plantation projects assisted by the World
Bank Group and other co-donors. Growth in manufacturing slowed, following
the first wave of import substitution. With rising costs and expanded claims
on available public revenues, real growth in public administration was also
reduced below the 1966-71 rate. Construction actually declined during 1971-76
and with a deceleration in exports, near stagnation in imports and the low
growth in real income throughout the economy, other services (mainly trade and
transport) increased only at one percent per annum.
Investment and Savings
7.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate, in-
cluding increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth, the
investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP, as the share of public
investment increased to almost 70 percent of total fixed investment. Gross
domestic savings and gross national savings rose to 16.4 and 13.9 percent of
GDP, but debt service increased by 60 percent from a small base. External
resources therefore continued to finance about one-third of total investment
during this period. This substantial improvement in savings during 1971-76
was due to a drastic reduction in the real growth of consumption, particularly
private consumption, to less than 2 percent per annum during 1966-71. One
of the prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings was, however,
a limitation on farmer's earnings in tree crops, which provided inadequate
incentives to induce farmers to obtain more output from the existing trees
and to do sufficient treatment and new plantings to maintain and expand
production capacity. The maintenance of a high investment rate during a
period of low output growth resulted in an apparent reduction in efficiency
of investment. Some reduction in capital productivity was also attributable
to investments, such as oil exploration and transport infrastructure, which
would lead to production increases only a number of years later, and social
infrastructure investments which would increase welfare more rapidly than
output. During this period there was considerable progress in the development
of high level human manpower. For example, the number of physicians increased
by more than 50 percent (decreasing the population per physician rate to about
20,000), dentists more than doubled and pharmacists increased by more than
five times.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
8.        Budgetary revenue was respectively 16.6 and 17.2 percent of GDP
during 1966-71 and 1971-76, while public savings after debt service as a
percentage of total public investment declined from about 39 percent in
1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. The balance of payments did not
become a problem until 1974-76.  Imports increased rapidly in 1975 and 1976



- 4 -
as a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public development expenditure,
especially in capital goods. At the same time, agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of cocoa and timber, causing sizeable current account
deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was financed by net
capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of international reserves also took
place in 1975. Therefore, net official international reserves decreased from
more than two months in 1974 to less than one month of imports in 1975. In
1977, exports recovered substantially (by 35 percent) but imports also in-
creased (by 28.5 percent) because of economic recovery and expanded invest-
ment. Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976 and 1977,
in part by the use of IMF credit (Oil Facilities and Compensatory Financing),
but net official international reserves continued to be less than one month
of imports in 1977. This was a low level by international standards but
still acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African
Monetary Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the devel-
opment, through both industrial plantations and smallholders, of a diversi-
fied agricultural sector, comprising export crops and domestic food crops
to feed the growing urban population and replace imports, particularly of
grains. Implementation of such a strategy depends on an appropriate mix
of public intervention and support as well as price and policy measures to
stimulate private initiative; net financial returns to the public sector are
more difficult to capture than in a less diversified foreign trade-oriented
strategy. Factors which further complicate the agricultural development
effort in Cameroon are the extensive dispersion of its main economic and
population centers separated by vast underpopulated areas, its regional and
institutional diversity, the competition between export and cash food crops
for the dwindling agricultural labor in some parts of the country, the
dependence of a substantial part of public revenue and savings on cocoa and
coffee, and the limited availability of skilled agricultural agents and
administrators. Through its technical assistance and education projects and
through its normal project work, the Bank Group is supporting Cameroon's
effort in manpower training and development in the public services in agri-
culture, as well as other sectors. In industry the Government has moved to
channel more financial resources for investment directly through the public
sector, in addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentive and
other measures, which have been in existence for many years. The Government
has actively participated in a Bank Group study of the manufacturing sector
whose results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to develop
existing as well as new industrial activities.
10.       In the medium-term, GDP growth is projected to accelerate substan-
tially because of the expected recovery and expansion in various agricultural
products (including forestry), spurred by relatively high international
commodity prices, increases in manufacturing and mining production and rapid
growth in construction activities and services resulting from expanded invest-
ment activities and rapid income growth. The outlook for considerable agri-
cultural growth during 1976-81 is based on: the maintenance of cocoa output



- 5 -
at near the previous peak level for a number of years; recovery for robusta
coffee, continuing expansion for arabica coffee, cotton, rubber, oil palm and
most other commercial and food crops, as also for livestock production; and
continuing recovery, followed by further expansion, of commercial forestry
production. This projection is also based on assessment of the medium-term
demand outlook for Cameroon's exports, projects under implementation, and
certain policy alternatives. Continuing growth of manufacturing production
from existing and expanded facilities (particularly in food, beverages and
construction materials) and new manufacturing output of sugar, paper pulp and
other products, as well as crude oil and new mining, are projected to result
in a marked improvement in manufacturing and mining growth during 1976-81.
With the expansion in the productive and investment activities, construction
and services are also expected to increase at a high rate.
11.       Long-term growth is expected to be somewhat constrained by the
worsening terms of trade, which will make it difficult to sustain the high
investment rate that is expected to prevail during the 1976-81 period, and by
the need for prudent debt management to ensure the country's long-term borrow-
ing capacity. Growth prospects will be importantly influenced by the extent
to which Cameroon succeeds in the difficult task of maintaining and expanding
the country's main traditional export crops, and the large-scale development
of still unexploited forestry resources. Results of studies on the forestry
potential, forestry sector development policy, investment plans and transport
requirements, many of which are part of Bank Group projects, will support the
latter development. In addition, there are still uncertain indications for
the exploitation of iron ore, but with heavy investment requirements, and
long lead times to establish commercially viable export operations, production
could probably not begin until the end of the 1980s.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
12.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Development
Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines, to
expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufacturing.
A part of financing of private investment activities, however, will be publicly
guaranteed borrowing. The Plan investment program of some US$3.1 billion (in
1974/75 prices) is about 80 percent higher in real terms than the estimated
level achieved during the last Plan period and almost triple previous Plan
expenditure in nominal terms. Public investment is expected to account for
73 percent of total investment. However, public investment will probably be
reduced by 10-20 percent from planned levels for several reasons including:
(a) the high dependence of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee
prices, which are expected to decline substantially in the last three years
of the Fourth Plan (1979-81) from their record levels in the past; (b) the
need for adequate producer prices to give farmers sufficient incentives for
production and new plantings; (c) the rise in import prices, which is expected
to continue; and (d) the requirement to keep supplementary borrowing on
commercial terms at prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term capacity
to borrow. The investment rate during the Fourth Plan period would then be
about 22 percent of GDP, and total investment in current prices would be
US$3.4-3.7 billion or about US$690-740 million per year.



Financial Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), thanks to favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
could finance about 65 percent of total public investment. However, in the
last three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service
are projected to finance only about 30 percent of total public investment and
this share of domestic public financing is likely to continue in the longer
run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financing
for the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders should
finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally financed
projects, including local costs in appropriate cases. An increasing reliance
on foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating terms of trade will
require careful external debt management. In this connection available data
shows that borrowing on commercial terms increased significantly in the last
year and a half. Nevertheless, Cameroon is judged to be creditworthy for Bank
financing over the medium-term on the basis of its ability to maintain and
improve productivity in the utilization of the country's resources and its
potential in the long-term to further diversify the economy by developing
still unexploited resources. In order to keep debt service within reasonable
limits, foreign public donors should provide at least 50 percent of public
capital assistance on concessionary terms. On this basis, the foreign debt
service ratio, 8.6 percent of export earnings in 1977 should be able to be
maintained below 15 percent by the mid-1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$376.6
million and cover 29 projects: fourteen in agriculture, nine in transporta-
tion, three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-scale
enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Agriculture repre-
sents the largest share (44 percent) of our past commitments followed by
transport (43 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of April 30, 1979 and includes notes on ongoing projects.
Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the execu-
tion of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness to col-
laborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's institu-
tions.



-7-
16.       The Government rightly attaches priority to the balanced regional
development of agricultural resources, and to the improvement of conditions
in the rural sector parallel with promotion of plantation agriculture, includ-
ing smallholder schemes. Bank Group assistance to Cameroon in agriculture is
designed to support these policy objectives. We have helped the Government
create an effective and well-managed plantation sector by financing oil palm
and rubber plantations in the south and west. The 1975 rubber project is
almost completed and we are now preparing a follow-up project to aid further
the development of the southwest coastal region. The second SOCAPALM and
CAMDEV projects are follow-up operations to successful oil palm projects in
the western coastal regions. At the same time, we have assisted, with two
SEMRY projects, in promoting smallholder rice irrigation in the north. The
ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize smallholder cocoa growing and
to raise rural productivity in areas south and west of Yaounde. Rural devel-
opment projects in populated but poor regions are being established with the
assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project is
financing studies and trial activities to establish whether a full-scale
rural development program can be launched. The ZAPI-East Integrated Rural
Development Project supports ZAPI's ongoing integrated rural development
activities as well as an expansion of ZAPI's activities in eastern Cameroon.
The Western Highlands Rural Development Project provides a package of inputs,
techniques and infrastructure aimed at improving productivity for the agri-
cultural economy of the western part of the country. The Rural Development
Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the machinery for
processing and implementing small-scale rural development schemes - initially
in the north. An objective of a rural development project that we are pro-
posing for the northern region will be to establish planning and coordination
capabilities at the provincial level as well as crop diversification, refor-
estation, small scale irrigation and rural water supply. The Government's
objectives in its rural development policies are to improve income distribu-
tion, to achieve a better balance in regional development and to promote
essential foodstuff production. The Bank Group intends to increase lending
for agriculture to support these efforts. As a corollary, we are preparing
the second phase of our livestock development program which began in 1974 and
will comprise further livestock development, tse-tse eradication, training and
a credit scheme for traditional producers.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided develop-
ment of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects
were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The
latter project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alleviated
by a Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976 as well as by the elimination
of the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the project. This
section is being financed under the Third Highway Project. The Fourth Highway
project, which is also being presented to the Board in June, will concentrate
on road maintenance and rehabilitation and will include funds for feasibility



- 8 -
studies for the construction of a two-lane heavy duty road between Yaounde
and Douala. Given projected traffic increases, and the backlog of required
investments in the transport sector, substantial capital outlays are still
necessary - particularly for the expansion of the Port of Douala, which is
being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA credit, and for related facilities such
as those proposed in this report for the Fourth Railway project. An engineer-
ing loan, approved in May 1976, helped complete the engineering of the railway
station and marshalling yard and would be refinanced under the proposed Fourth
Railway Project. A Feeder Roads Project approved in November 1977 will estab-
lish institutions for feeder road administration and maintenance in addition
to providing the necessary resources for a feeder road program to support high
priority agricultural/rural development projects. Future road investments
could possibly include financing of strategic international access routes but
should place greater emphasis on road maintenance and on developing the
network of forestry, feeder and farm access roads.
18.       In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project,
approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship and a
second project is in preparation. A Third Education Project, approved in
April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and training. Field
appraisal has taken place of a water supply project that would provide water
to thirteen secondary centres in Cameroon, as well as reinforcement and ex-
pansion of the water systems in Douala and Yaounde. For the future, we
have begun preparation of an urban development project and have tentatively
identified a telecommunications project. A forestry sector mission has just
returned from Cameroon and we are tentatively planning an energy sector
mission in the next fiscal year, in the expectation that projects will be
identified in both these sectors.
19.       All these projects include, as needed, training, technical assis-
tance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977 is helping to strengthen Government services in several key Ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing.
To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our future lending
strategy, continuing emphasis will be required on strengthening the institu-
tional framework, particularly concerning sector planning, preparation and
implementation in transportation and rural and urban development.
20.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly
to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank and IDA disburse-
ments were small during this period. From 1972 to 1976 overall disbursements
of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million per year with one-fifth as
grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows amounted to about 23
percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other



- 9 -
donors; in 13 of our 29 projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements
have been made and we are actively seeking co-financing for several future
projects.
21.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1976
amounted to US$529.3 million. Public debt service as a proportion of export
earnings amounted to 5.9 percent in 1976 and is projected to be maintained
below 15 percent by the mid-1980's. At that time annual foreign aid disburse-
ments may be over US$400 million with only 7 percent consisting of grants.
At end-1976 Bank loans accounted for 10.9 percent of Cameroon's public debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 11.4 percent of its public debt service. IDA
credits accounted for 12.8 percent of public debt outstanding and 1.1 percent
of public debt service. The Bank and IDA are expected to account for about
22 percent of total public debt and 13 percent of public debt service in
1983, on the basis of estimates made early last year.
22.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing estate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. In November 1977, the Board approved a third
operation, an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a pro-
motional company for maize development. No commitment has yet been made on
this investment since the original technical partner has been replaced and
major changes have been made in the arrangements expected earlier. The Board
approved a second equity investment of US$390,000 in SAFACAM in September
1978. The increased capitalization is required to finance the construction
of a palm oil pressing mill. Cameroonian participation again increased with
this operation. The Societe Nationale d'Investissement, a national develop-
ment bank, is doubling its share in SAFACAM. In April 1979, the Board
approved an investment of US$7.86 million consisting of US$7 million in loan
and US$0.86 million equivalent in equity in a Cameroonian aluminium producing
company, ALUCAM, to help expand the company's production capacity.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
23.       Cameroon's transport system is import/export oriented.  The focal
point of the network is Douala, the country's principal commercial center,
main seaport and site of the only international airport. The main transport
arteries are the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis and the Transcameroon corridor
(Douala-Yaounde-Ngaoundere-Maroua-Chad border). An efficient transport system



- 10 -
is important, not only for internal development and national integration, but
also to handle transit traffic for landlocked neighboring Chad and the Central
African empire.
24.       The transport system is made up of 57,000 km of roads; 1,153 km of
railway; one principal and two secondary seaports; one seasonal river port;
and one international and 13 smaller airports. As such, it provides reason-
ably adequate access to the four regions of main economic activity: the palm
oil, rubber and industrial areas along the coast; the densely populated, rich
agricultural western region near Bafoussam; the cocoa-producing region near
Yaounde; and the densely populated cotton, rice and livestock producing areas
in the north around Maroua.
25.       On a country-wide basis, road transport is the dominant mode.  An
exception is the Douala-Yaounde corridor where the railway, described below,
carries most freight and a substantial proportion of passenger traffic. The
road network comprises about 2,300 km of paved roads, 7,000 km of gravel
roads and 48,000 km of earth roads and tracks. The density of the road
network varies considerably throughout the country, being greatest in the
economically active and heavily populated areas. While there has been a
considerable effort to build and rehabilitate paved roads, in recent years the
overall condition of the road network has deteriorated somewhat because of low
initial construction standards, increasing traffic and insufficient mainten-
ance. Unpaved roads, which account for 97 percent of the network, are fre-
quently impassable during the rainy season. Consequently, the Government is
giving a higher priority to improving road maintenance than in the past and
the Bank's proposed Fourth Highway project is designed to support that effort.
26.       The principal port, Douala, handles 90 percent of Cameroon's foreign
and transit trade, with a throughput of 2.5 million tons. Its capacity will
be expanded to about 4 million tons by the ongoing Second Douala Port project
(Loan 1321-CM, Credit 657-CM, US$25 million, 1976) due for completion in 1981.
The lighterage port of Kribi handles mainly log exports (about 150,000 tons).
The sea port of Victoria and river port of Garoua have only marginal traffic.
The Cameroon National Port Authority operates the ports at a profit.
27.       Cameroon Airlines provides domestic services between Douala, Yaounde
and 12 other domestic airports, and international services between Douala,
West and East Africa, and Europe.
Transport Planning
28.       Within its development objectives, the Government is giving priority
to transportation and agriculture. Large areas of Cameroon are still isolated
and many others are served only by rudimentary roads, therefore, the Govern-
ment's objectives in the transport sector are to promote foreign and regional
trade, improve access to agricultural areas and to facilitate the marketing
of food. The current Fourth Development Plan (FYs1977-81) calls for an in-
investment of CFAF 176 billion (US$800 million) over the five year period,



- 11 -
an increase of about one third in real terms over the actual transport in-
vestment in the Third Plan.  While the proportion of total public sector in-
vestment in transport is reduced from over 50 percent to 35 percent, its
realization is still heavily dependent upon foreign contributions, amounting
to 62 percent of total projected investment.
29.       The Ministry of Economy and Planning (MINEP), the Ministry of
Transport (MOT) and the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MINEH) are all
concerned in some degree with the planning and processing of transport proj-
ects. However, their limited staff, barely sufficient when investment de-
cisions consisted mainly of ranking high-priority projects on the principal
transport routes, is inadequate for the more sophisticated investment choices
between competing modes such as rail and road in the Douala-Yaounde corridor.
Establishing transport priorities and strengthening the planning effort is,
therefore, a necessity. The Bank has had a continuing dialogue on this matter
with the Government and, partly as a result of this, the Government has
started to take the necessary steps to improve its planning mechanisms. MOT
has created a Planning and Coordination Unit, and four expatriate economists
are being recruited under Bank-financed projects to provide technical assis-
tance and on-the-job training (one to MINEP, two to MOT and one to MINEH).
The recent agreement of MINEH to create a Road Planning Unit, together with
Bank assistance to Regifercam in improving its operational and planning
capability, should ensure improved efficiency in the future. Furthermore,
the Government has requested advice from the Bank to carry out an overall
transport sector study. The study would be undertaken by Cameroonian pro-
fessionals and expatriate experts financed under ongoing transport projects,
with Bank staff providing technical assistance during field missions.
30.       To date, the Government has tended to take a project by project
approach to investment. This has resulted in a road program lacking clearly
defined priorities, inadequate attention to road maintenance, and a possibly
excessive emphasis on railway infrastructure investment. A study of the
*improvements required in the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor which was
financed under a Bank project showed that a package comprising a realignment
of the Douala-Edea section of the railroad and the construction of a two-lane
road between Douala and Yaounde would be economically justified. The study
also showed that, at present, a realignment of the railroad sections between
Edea and Maloume was not justified. A group of donors (KfW, FED, FAC, CIDA,
USAID and CCCE) has agreed to finance the costs of realignment of the Douala-
Edea section and work has started. Regarding the Edea-Maloume section, dis-
cussions are being held with the Government and the Office du Chemin de Fer
du Transcamerounais concerning a study of the optimum form of infrastructure
investment in the Edea-Maloume railway section. rhe Government has agreed
that it will carry out a study to determine the optimal economic solution
for improving the Edea-Maloume Section and will not undertake any capital
investment in this section unless it is economically justified (Section 3.03
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The Government is currently financing a
feasibility study on the upgrading of the Douala-Yaounde road to paved
standards and the Bank proposes to include additional funds for this purpose
in the proposed Fourth Highway project.



- 12 -
Regifercam
31.       Regifercam is a public sector corporation functioning under Govern-
ment guidelines as stipulated in a 1974 presidential decree. The Board of
Directors consists of twelve members, mostly Government representatives, in-
cluding the corporation's general manager as chairman. Past experience in-
dicates that Regifercam operates with a reasonable degree of independence in
its day-to-day operations. Regifercam's internal organization is satisfactory
in its essential features. The quality of the mostly Africanized management
has improved. There remain, however, critical areas of administrative and
personnel weakness, and the provision of substantial technical assistance and
management training has therefore been included in the proposed project.
32.       Regifercam's total staff, of about 5,200 employees, has increased
considerably over the past five years but at a slower pace than traffic vol-
umes. Regifercam is now preparing a manpower plan, with the assistance of
consultants, the primary objectives of which are to reduce overstaffing and
ensure a better matching of job requirements and staff qualifications.
Regifercam has agreed to submit the draft plan to the Bank for review by
June 30, 1980, to implement it over a five-year period after this date and
submit to the Bank an annual progress report, and to limit any possible staff
increases to imperative needs for railway operations until the plan is
finalized and carried out (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
training component of the proposed project is aimed at the improvement of
existing training facilities and the development schemes for the retraining of
about one half of the present staff and the training of 200 new recruits per
year. A management training program would be complemented under the proposed
project by on-the-job training by technical assistants, who would staff
Organization and Methods units at the level of the main technical departments
of the railway. Regifercam has agreed to set up these units by December 31,
1979 and to assign qualified and experienced Cameroonians in adequate numbers
to the experts to be employed in the Organization and Methods units (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). During negotiations Regifercam agreed to
consult annually with the Bank on the railway's expected technical assistance
requirements and on measures necessary to meet these (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
33.       Regifercam's financial statements are in general based on sound
accounting principles. An ongoing reorganization will further improve the
accounting and costing systems and Regifercam has agreed to produce annually
a comprehensive investment budget and a corresponding financing plan covering
all railway-related investment beginning with the fiscal year 1980/81
(Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed project provides for
technical assistance in these fields and in the areas of planning, budgeting,
and financial control, and for a more comprehensive audit. Regifercam has
agreed to depreciate its motive power and rolling stock and, beginning FY
1982, its track material on the basis of replacement cost; the replacement
cost for motive power and rolling stock will be determined immediately and
for the track material in FY82 (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
34.       The railway has maintained its productive assets well by timely
renewals of its infrastructure together with appropriate, albeit sometimes
belated, increases in rolling equipment capacity. Currently, Regifercam is
operating 1,153 km of mainline with 47 mainline locomotives, 9 railcars, 31
shunters, about 1,540 commercial freight cars and 105 passenger coaches and
baggage vans. Motive power and rolling stock capacity is being increased
considerably under financing by Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(France) and the Canadian International Development Agency/Canadian Export
Financing Agency. Major investment in passenger rolling stock is contemplated
by the railway. In January 1979, the railway submitted to the Bank a passenger
transport plan which is presently being implemented. Discussions are under
way between the Bank and Regifercam about the number of passenger coaches
which should be replaced. Realignment of the Douala-Yaounde section was
completed on about 100 km (Maloume-Yaounde) in April 1978 and the works for
the realignment of the Douala-Edea section, financed by other donors, started
at the end of 1978. Ongoing projects will provide better communications and
signalling on the busiest sections of the line, enabling the railway to
improve substantially its operations.
35.       Although improvements have been evident over the past five years,
much remains to be done to achieve full operational efficiency within the
railway. The proposed project provides a large technical assistance compo-
nent to assist Regifercam in instituting Organization and Methods units within
its main technical departments to help improve efficiency. An Action Plan to
improve operations has been submitted to the Bank by Regifercam's management
and was agreed upon during negotiations. The Plan indicates the operational
targets that management undertakes to achieve during the next four years and
enumerates the means by which the Action Plan will be implemented (Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       Regifercam freight traffic grew at about 9 percent per annum in ton
kilometers from FY1974 to FY1978, despite a shortage of motive power and
rolling stock which has led to a loss of traffic estimated by the railway at
about 15% in FY1978. A further growth of about 7% in FY1979 is likely and
thereafter a more substantial recovery is expected as six new heavy mainline
locomotives and 212 wagons procured under French financing come into effec-
tive service during FY1979 and 1980 with beneficial effects on capacity,
particularly for timber, cement, petroleum and alumina traffic. The overall
effect should be an increase of about 41% in ton kilometers between FY1979 and
FY1983. Then, given strong competition from road traffic, railway freight
traffic is likely to decline in the first year of completion of the Yaounde-
Douala road (probably FY1984) and is unlikely to recover to the FY1983 volume
until about FY1988. A growth trend rate of 3 percent per annum for timber and
2 percent per annum for other freight traffic is forecast for FYs1988-2001.
Passenger traffic, which has stagnated recently, is also expected to show a
small recovery in the future. While these forecasts reflect Regifercam's
generally acceptable prospects based on detailed analyses of principal com-
modity groupings and are considered realistically attainable, past experience
on this railway and in West Africa as a whole suggests that a cautious ap-
proach to expectations is justified. Consequently, a sensitivity analysis has



- 14 -
been employed with respect to freight traffic which reflects a considerably
more modest forecast (50% of the forecasts outlined above) up to and through
the period when the Douala-Yaounde road will come into service (see para. 50).
The sensitivity forecasts have been used, not only for the economic rate of
return calculations, as is usual in such cases, but to assess the financial
results and to establish the consequent financial covenants (see para. 53
below).
37.       Regifercam's debt service quadrupled from FY1973 to FY1978, due
to increased investment and hardening of terms of borrowing, accompanied
by only a small increase in cash generation from operations, necessitating
borrowing on a larger scale. The railway's delicate financial position was
alleviated through subsidies from the Government of Cameroon and the use of
bank overdrafts mostly to cover financing gaps in its investment program.
Regifercam agreed at negotiations that after FY1979, it will limit bank over-
drafts to CFAF 800 million (US$3.6 million) and use them only in exceptional
circumstances and for short periods of time (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
38.       A completion report has recently been issued for the Second (Loan
1038-CM) and Third (Loan S4-CM) Railway projects. The report finds, in
reference to the Second Railway Project that the major problems encountered
during execution of the project were the technical difficulties experienced
during the construction of the new Japoma bridge, cost overruns due to the
large increase on this latter component and shortage of funds caused by
currency realignments. Despite these difficulties, the project has been
successfully implemented and its rate of return is satisfactory. The report
for the Third Railway Project concludes that the major elements originally
included in the project have been successfully implemented. Progress in
improving management of Regifercam's Operations Department was limited, due
mainly to the lack of qualified counterparts, now proposed to be remedied
through additional training and technical assistance. The two projects were
also instrumental in stopping the deterioration of Regifercam's finances and
bringing about some improvement, albeit mostly through tariff increases.
Funds available under the Third Railway project, were used to deal with the
emerging problem of weak cost control by financing consultants to devise cost
control systems and a manpower plan. However, since measurable progress may
not be apparent for some time to come, the report recommends that management
assistance be continued under the proposed Fourth Railway Project through the
provision of technical assistance for management and staff training and for
the preparation of further expansion of maintenance facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       Regifercam's Investment Plan and the corresponding financing plan
for the fiscal years 1979-81 are part of the Government's national develop-
ment plan. Forecasts for the years until FY1985 have been established and



- 15 -
discussed with Regifercam for the purpose of this project. Total railway in-
vestment planned for FYs 1979-81 amounts to CFAF 45.9 billion (US$209 million).
During the same period freight capacity is expected to increase by over 40
percent. Since there will be sufficient line capacity to carry this traffic,
railway investments will focus on: providing sufficient transport capacity
to meet expected demand; upgrading and modernizing existing infrastructure;
and improving operational efficiency. In general, the investment plan is
well-balanced and adequate to achieve these objectives. France and Canada
are financing needed locomotives and freight cars, and the proposed project
is designed to achieve the other objectives of the plan.
40.       The construction of a new marshalling yard in Douala has long been
recognized as necessary. Feasibility and engineering studies for these new
facilities were therefore undertaken in the framework of the Third Railway
project (Loan S4-CM) in 1976. The project was appraised in May and June 1978.
Negotiations for the loan were held in Washington in April 1979. The Cameroon
Delegation was led by Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the United Republic of
Cameroon in Washington.
Project Description
41.       The project consists of:
(a) the new Douala station including: (i) a marshalling yard
with two sets of tracks for freight traffic and a rail
bridge for access to the workshops and maintenance facili-
ties; (ii) a platform and surfaced areas for cargo-handling,
including required service sidings; (iii) a warehouse and
its service tracks; (iv) a wagon maintenance shed; (v)
various small service buildings and fixed installations
including in particular, a signalling system; (vi) internal
service roads and parking areas; (vii) tracks and platforms
for a passenger station; (viii) a set of tracks for servic-
ing and parking passenger coaches; (ix) a public road
connection to the freight station and yard; and (x) a road
bridge to replace the present level-crossing on the Douala-
Yaounde road;
(b) railway equipment comprising: (i) track maintenance equip-
ment, mainly for renewal; (ii) 50 turnouts for service sidings
and renewal (in addition to the 75 required for the new
marshalling yard); (iii) 50 bogies to replace those damaged
in accidents; (iv) a truck equipped with pump and hoses for
the fire department; and (v) locomotive spare parts which
will be financed 50 percent by the proposed loan and credit
and 50 percent by Regifercam;
(c) the expansion of the Douala workshop comprising: (i) the civil
works; (ii) the construction of a service station in the



- 16 -
vicinity of the new Douala marshalling yard, with refueling
facilities; and (iii) machine tools, cleaning and lifting
equipment for the workshop. This workshop expansion is the
first phase of the implementation of a master plan proposed
by the railway and is deemed sufficient to meet traffic and
maintenance requirements until at least 1982;
(d) the first-phase construction of a locomotive running shed in
Yaounde for the running maintenance of all the diesel locomo-
tives operating on the Transcameroon railway;
(e) Yaounde rolling stock maintenance facilities; a workshop would
be constructed in Yaounde for routine checks and maintenance
of freight cars and passenger coaches. This would enable the
railway to postpone construction of new freight car workshops
in Douala until completion of the studies financed in the
project;
(f) 306 man-months of consulting services and technical assistance
for the improvement of railway operations and management, and,
additionally, feasibility and engineering studies for the con-
struction of maintenance facilities provided for in the project,
the preparation of a possible workshop extension and the super-
vision of the works under contracts;
(g) 194 man-months of technical assistance to strengthen the train-
ing department of the railway to develop an improved training
scheme based on manpower planning, to train supervisory
training staff and instructors and to implement the recommenda-
tions of the training study carried out by Consultants; furni-
ture and equipment; and the renovation of existing buildings
and the addition of classrooms and offices; and
(h) the refinancing of the outstanding amount of the engineering
loan of the Third Railway Project (Loan S4-CM), as planned
under the terms of that loan.
Engineering
42.       The final engineering of the new Douala station has been carried
out with Bank financing by consultants. Cost estimates, implementation
schedules and tender documents have been included in the consultants' work,
which was finished by the end of 1978. The engineering studies for the rail-
way workshop expansion are being carried out by consultants on the basis of a
master plan approved by the Bank after review by an experienced independent
consultant hired by the Bank. Completion of these studies is expected by
September 1979. A preliminary design for the Yaounde locomotive running shed
and rolling stock maintenance facilities was prepared by a consultant financed
by Regifercam and was reviewed by the Bank in May 1979. The proposed mainten-
ance system to be instituted in these new facilities complies with the Banks'



- 17 -
recommendations. The final engineering will be undertaken by the consultants
carrying out the engineering for the workshop expansion, and is expected to
be completed, including the preparation of tender documents, by December 1979.
The scope and design of the training component have been defined by consultants
under Bank financing and supervision.
Implementation
43.       Regifercam is competent to carry out and supervise the project with
the assistance of consulting engineers. The project is expected to start in
October 1979 and be completed by the end of 1982. The purchase of equipment
and civil works components are expected to be completed by the end of 1981. A
provision for consulting services has been included in the proposed project to
assist Regifercam in supervising the civil works contracts, including the
manufacturing and installation of the electrical signalling system in the new
Douala station and marshalling yard. Regifercam will make appropriate arrange-
ments by December 1980, to build an adequate passenger station building by the
time of completion of construction of the related facilities listed in para.
41(a) (vii) and (viii) above (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
44.       The total cost of the proposed project, net of tax, is estimated at
US$59.2 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of about US$47.4 mil-
lion (81 percent of total), including the refinancing of the outstanding
balance of Loan S4-CM (US$2.0 million). Physical contingencies range from
10 percent to 15 percent depending on the component and average 12 percent.
Price contingencies are estimated at 10 percent per annum. Cameroonian legis-
lation exempts works undertaken by Regifercam from taxes and duties. The
proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$27.0 million and an
IDA credit of US$20 million, the balance being provided by Regifercam (US$11.8
million equivalent in local costs and US$0.4 million equivalent in foreign
costs for locomotive spare parts). The Bank loan and IDA Credit of US$47.0
million would finance 79 percent of total project costs and 99 percent of
the foreign exchange costs of the project. The IDA credit would be on-lent
to Regifercam by the Government in local currency on the same terms and con-
ditions as the Bank loan (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and Regifercam, which sets out these on-lending terms, is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 is proposed on account of
payments made for consultants and experts' services after March 1, 1979. This
amount would cover the costs of two items of the technical assistance com-
ponent. Finalization of the railway's manpower plan, which is intended to
control a tendency to over-staffing, and of a plan for the implementation of
improved personnel management techniques would require a total of twenty-four
additional man-months of technical assistance; retroactive financing of some



- 18 -
US$200,000 is proposed for these items. An amount of US$150,000 of retro-
active financing is proposed for the final engineering studies for the con-
struction of the Yaounde locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance
facilities, in order to avoid delay in preparation of this item. Given the
urgency of the items and the small amounts involved, this financing seems
justified.
46.        The total cost per man-month of technical assistance and consulting
services is estimated at US$9,970 including salaries and local subsistence
allowances but excluding contingencies.  These estimates are based on actual
costs of contracts awarded under the Third Railway Project.
Procurement
47.        The main contracts for civil works (US$31 million) and procurement
of equipment (US$7.7 million) would be awarded under international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, and consultants would be selected
and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. An exception
would be contracts for small buildings (about US$1.7 million) to be erected
in the new Douala station area and at the training center, which will be
advertised locally without notification of diplomatic and trade representa-
tives. Critical locomotive spare parts will be supplied by the manufacturer
of the existing locomotives; the cost, with contingencies, of these spare
parts is about US$0.8 million equivalent of which the Bank would finance 50
percent.
Disbursements
48.        The proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank loan would be disbursed
against:
(a)  imported material and equipment (mainly track material,
machinery, spare parts for freight cars and furniture
equipment and material for training): 100 percent of
the foreign cost or 85 percent of local cost;
(b)  locomotive spare parts:  50 percent of the foreign cost;
(c)  civil works, including signalling, telecommunication, water
supply and electrical installations with the necessary
equipment: 80 percent of cost of contracts; and
(d)  consulting services and technical assistants:  85 percent
of total expenditures.
Disbursements will be fully documented. To the extent practicable the pro-
ceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed before those of the Bank loan,
except for the refinancing of the outstanding balance of the Third Railway
Project loan (Loan S4-CM). A condition of disbursement of funds for the



- 19 -
Yaounde locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities
(see para. 41 (d) and (e) above) is that Regifercam shall have furnished to
the Bank design and engineering plans for the facilities to be constructed
and a proposed maintenance policy for motive power and rolling stock, which
are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
49.       The project has four separately identifiable components:  a marshall-
ing yard, workshops/running sheds, equipment and technical assistance/studies.
The existing marshalling facilities are inadequate and subject to flooding
during the frequent heavy rains. The proposed project would improve the effi-
ciency of wagon movements and increase capacity. This in turn would avoid
divergence of significant volumes of traffic to trucks, an economically more
expensive form of transport. The project would provide adequate marshalling
capacity to meet the growth in traffic demand at least until 1985 with exten-
sions possible at low marginal cost. The rate of return on this project
element would be at least 20 percent. The Douala workshops are overworked,
reflected in unsatisfactory locomotive availability. A running shed in Yaounde
is needed to provide better maintenance, to reduce the average distance to the
maintenance facilities, and to provide additional capacity. If these two
project elements are not provided, locomotive maintenance will become increas-
ingly difficult and consequently locomotive purchase excessive. The benefit
from avoidance of reduced availability would give a rate of return of over
17 percent. Railway equipment and wagon bogies are urgently required. New
bogies would avoid the need to purchase new wagons. The rate of return on
this project element is 15 percent. The overall rate of return on these items
is a satisfactory 18 percent, including in the costs technical assistance from
which benefits are attributable to the project.
50.       Given the uncertainties concerning the future of two of Regifercam's
most important sources of revenues: timber and traffic to and from Chad and
the Central African Empire, some rather rigorous sensitivity tests were
carried out, employing traffic growth at 50 percent of the best estimate
and investment costs 10 percent higher. For the total project, with unchanged
costs and decreased benefits the rate is 11 percent, with increased costs and
unchanged benefits 16 percent and with costs increased and benefits decreased
10 percent. These rates are considered acceptable, particularly in view of
the comparatively long gestation period for a project of the complexity of a
marshalling yard, and the consequent need for adequate capacity to be built
into the project to allow for the possibility of traffic growth exceeding
sensitivity forecasts.
Financial Evaluation of Regifercam
51.       The most important feature of Regifercam's future financial position
is the need for a rapid and sustained increase in internal cash generation to
alleviate its liquidity shortage and to cope with a rapidly increasing debt



- 20 -
service, expected to grow from CFAF 1.9 billion (US$8.6 million) in FY1978
to CFAF 3.6 billion (US$16.4 million) in FY1980 and CFAF 6.5 billion (US$29.5
million) in FY1985. Most of the corresponding investment is needed to in-
crease Regifercam's productivity and its capacity to cope with existing and
expected traffic demand. Close attention to Regifercam's future capital
investment and borrowing is, however, needed and the railway has agreed to
seek, until completion of the project, the Bank's approval for any capital
investment costing more than US$2.5 million, and to seek the Bank's approval
for any long-term borrowing exceeding a periodically agreed aggregate amount
(Sections 5.08(a) and 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       There is scope during the next three years for increasing Regifercam's
internal cash generation through tariff increases, since the railway has little
competition from other transport modes. Regifercam will be required to ensure
that revenues from freight services on its Western line and passenger services
which presently incur high losses, will cover at least 60 percent of the full
cost of such services (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Govern-
ment has agreed that it will take appropriate measures to enable Regifercam
to carry out this obligation, however, the Government may, during an interim
period until 1983, provide specific offsetting subsidies to Regifercam suffi-
cient to allow revenues from these services, plus the subsidy, to cover 60
percent of their cost (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Road
construction between Douala and Yaounde, expected to be completed around 1983,
will expose the railway to serious competition for a substantial share of its
freight traffic. Thus, tariff increases in excess of inflationary cost
increases must be concentrated in the next three years, followed by moderate
increases thereafter. Suitable increases have been agreed for 1979, 1980 and
1981 which will raise tariffs in real terms to about 90 percent of the 1967
level. These increases, in combination with traffic growth, would improve
Regifercam's debt service coverage ratio from 0.9 in FY1978 to 1.4 in FY1981,
and the working ratio from 84 percent to 66 percent, permitting the railway to
finance from its internal cash flow additional working capital requirements
and an increasing share of capital investment, in addition to its debt service.
The rate of return on unrevalued net fixed assets in use would increase from
its presently negative value to 5.7 percent in FY 1981. Under the impact of
stronger road competition, assumed to lead to a reduction of railway traffic
in FY1984 and slow increases thereafter, Regifercam's financial performance
would be less good but still satisfactory.
53.       Past experience in West Africa suggests that a cautious approach
to expectations for future traffic, as reflected in the economic sensitivity
analysis, is justified. In addition, the impact of highway development on
the railway's finances is particularly difficult to predict, as it will affect
both traffic volumes and the ability of the railway to increase tariffs and
still remain competitive, particularly for high value goods. Accordingly
the implications of the financial sensitivity analysis have been taken into
account in formulating the financial targets and covenants. The financial
sensitivity analysis predicts debt service coverage ratios of 1.2 to 1.4 in
FYs 1981 through 1983, dropping to 0.9 for the first year after completion of



- 21 -
the proposed Yaounde-Douala road and recovering again to 1.3 in FY87. The
railway would thus incur sizeable cash deficits for several years, to be
covered by Government subsidies totalling about CFAF 5 billion over three
years, which would decrease from year to year and end in FY1987. Forecast
working ratios are below 70 percent until completion of the proposed Douala-
Yaounde road, and about 72 percent thereafter. Regifercam agreed at nego-
tiations to take all measures necessary to ensure that its working ratio will
not exceed 75 percent in FY1980, 72 percent in FY1981, 70 percent for FY82
and until completion of the planned Douala-Yaounde road, and 75 percent
thereafter (Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Risks
54.        There is a serious risk that the Government will have to subsidize
the railway for several years after completion of the planned Douala-Yaounde
road, and accordingly the Government will be asked to agree to provide finan-
cial support to Regifercam as may be appropriate to protect the railway's
liquidity should the need arise (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment). However, it is also true that the project provides a vital complement
to other investments already underway. This is demonstrated not only by the
satisfactory economic rate of return but by the fact that the subsidies that
could be needed for Regifercam would be significantly higher without the
project than with it i.e. under the most pessimistic assumptions, in FY1985
the railway will be CFAF 1.7 billion (US$8 million), the equivalent of about
25 percent of net operating revenues, better off with the project than with-
out it.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.        The draft Loan Agreement between Regifercam and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee and Development Credit Agreements between the United Republic of
(dllneroon and the Bank and the Association, the Report of the Committee pro-
vided in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V Section
1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
56.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IIl.
57.        A condition of effectiveness is the conclusion of a subsidiary loan
agreement, which establishes the on-lending terms for the IDA credit, between
the Government and Regifercam (para. 44).
58.        A condition of disbursement of funds for the Yaounde locomotive
rnlling shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities is that Regifercam shall
fw furnished to the Bank design and engineering plans for the facilities



- 22 -
to be constructed and a proposed maintenance policy for motive power and
rolling stock, which are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
-  3 -                               ~~~~~Page 1 of 6
TAIL! 3A
CAKMOON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CAMEROON                                                1a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            475.4                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     156.4                                 NDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION 1c   GROUP 14    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0       200.0      340.0           223.6       432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       55.0        91.0     104.0             86.7      251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         5.5          6.8       7.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9 /f      20.5       28.5            13.6        24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        12.0        14.0       16.0            18.4        42.7        50.8
PER SQ. 10M. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0        44.0      50.0             53.6        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.0        43.0      42.7             44.4        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                          56.0        54.0      53.8             52.7       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.0         3.0        3.5             2.8         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.1        1.9             2.6         2.7         2.5
URBAN                                *-         6.1        7.6             5.8         8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.5        42.1       40.4            46.9        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.0        23.9       22.0            20.6        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.3 14      2.7        2.7             3.1         3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..             2.5        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              70.4       100.0      98.2             94.2       104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        96.0     102.0             90.1        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           59.0        59.0      59.3             55.2        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        23.0 /h   16.5             17.1        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..         ..              ..         7.5         8.0
HEALTN
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9         41.0       41.0            43.7        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..      142.0 Li        138.4        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        32.0         *-            22.4        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..        77.0         ..            66.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..        21.0        ..             10.4        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            23.9        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            70.3        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            14.2        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          40460.0 /f  25960.0   26220.0 /j       21757.5      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10898.0 If   2470.0    2270.0 /          3473.8      2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             530.0 /f    310.0         ..           645.4       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           172.9       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..          1292.6      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..            19.2        19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        5.2             4.9          ..         5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..        5.1             5.0          ..         5.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        5.2             4.7          ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         2.0
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..         2.3         1.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..          ..        67.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        10.3        34.1



- 24 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CAMEROON                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  "
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  65.0        107.0      111.0             52.1        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                43.0         91.0       97.0             37.6        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0       12.0              8.0        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                 1.0          5.0        8.0              5.0        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0           23.0       23.0              7.2         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         48.0       51.0             43.2        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                             ..         24.0      23.0              22.8        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..        12.0        6.0 fL          20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          6.0         ..              3.9         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         36.0       96.0             40.1        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..              2.2        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.0 /h       3.0        3.0              3.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1             ..        1.0              1.2         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2800.0       3300.0    3600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    42.6         42.4      41.9              32.6        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               88.0         82.0       79.4             73.3        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.6          6.0       6.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.0         49.4       48.0             42.0        37.8         33.8
MALE                                  59.6         57.9       56.6             54.8        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                42.8         41.2       39.6             27.3        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.2        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             25.7        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             55.1        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              5.8         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            108.8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       70.0             74.1        97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      112.0            124.4       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       85.0             59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       15.0             26.8        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      40.0              47.6        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are p3pulation-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962, including ex-South Cameroons under British Administra-
tion;  /g  West Cameroon only;   /h   1964-1966;   /I  1972;   /i  1971.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
-25 -                                                                    Page 3 of 6 page:
REY TO COLNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME CROUP/e
l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lotaiol urptoe
RegLot  T-c.ac C-oup |ou innneeb                                        Lo t_ d                      Iniet-diatc l Middle                   Upper Middle             High lo     /f                Cortr
Scale                    Molacri            Angl.                      Chana                                    Djibou-i                   Caobn
-ururdi                  Mali                votavane                  Sory Cout                                Raunon
Central African Emp.   Mubique              C roon                     Mauriria.
Chad                     Niser              Cape VeIde rNibi.
C-r-o                   R"Ind.              Congo, P.R.                Saythell.e
Ethiopit                 Sierra Leo-e       Eqoetori I Guine.
AFRTC  SOUtA           CGnhbi, The              Sralia             Ltb.ria
OF SRARA                uinea                    T-p.ania i         a ritaia
Cuioea-aiaeac             gone Noigeria
Kenvca                   ieg-de             Rhedecie
Lescoho                  Ctppar Volta       See Tame &s F iecipm
'tadgaetar               Zaire              Sen gal
.                                                                   S kA z i I *eI Suda
Sn. il.nd
Z-mbia
Eop                                         M-..cc                     Algeria                                  Bahra in                     re
NORTh  RID CA          Yemen  Ri.                                      oLrda-                                                          Ir.n                        Sean                         Lib-a
_4L, MITDLF            Y_ne   P.D.R.                                                          Syria  h..                               Iraq                                                    Qatar
C AlT                                                                                         Voniat                                   L.ba.on                                                  Saudidarabia
tPLnited Arhb eir
lighanieten              Nalidvee
5angladelh               Nepal
SOLTH AIA             33htan a-ikian
S3ene                    Sri Lanka
Indi
Cambodia                                    Ne  Hbrid.                 China,  ap. of                           Fili  ._r-icn Samoa
'I'deia                                     Ppoa He. Goinea           Gilbern telan.da                         ifong long                  Soone
CdT 5110              tdoo- i-..                                  Pihlippieee               Korea, Re.  of frennb palvneeie
solamot Slaede                              Th.iland                   Ca"I' lulA
JLen  N              '                      Tonga                      f-aiavia                                                            Sew Caledonia
_   _ aWctern Sueoa       Truat Territery of the Psoifi                                       Singapore
Haiti                                       Bolivia                    Aecigue           Guatemla               Argentine                  B.h-r
El Salv dor               B lioc             JlDeina               Rarb doc                    S:aouda
Grenada                   Chile              Meaito                Draeil                      Canal lane
:15  OCERICA                                                      CGuyana                     Colambi.           Nicaragua             Fre-oh Guiana              Mrtini. u
l CARIBFAVN                                                              re                   Coa lia            Paaguc                Guadalupe Pene.en
St. Vireot                DlPainica          Peru                  feth.rlenda  etnille        Virgin  tlanda  (UIS.)
Didnicin Rep.   St. Kitta-Nenie          Panam
Eouader           St. Lonia              Puerto floe
Surinam
Trinidad &Tobago
Uru ...
T-rbey                                   Cvpruc                     Ch nna  I;l-nd
CUOCG                                                                                                                                  M        Mlt                GIralt
; t RCFE                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perorga ICi Greenet
Ron ia                    Ireanland
VufeCSCOia                 Spain
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. -. Ipi
Australia        PFiulad                         Italy                Nreay                   'United Strate
'YUCSTRI;LIZED         AS-tria           Freene                          Jpan                South Africa
corwTRIES              Balgie GnCreny Fd. Rep. of                        Lnae.baorg           Sweden
Can.d.            Iceland                        Ntherland-            Sminetrl-ad
Dennmark           Ireland                       Raw Zealand Z         onZid Kingd:-
Albei.            Caren Ion, Rop.             WTOSR
BSl-tic           Hufngary
CEV7RALLY PLANVED    Chin- P.R. of    Kere   DlA. Rep. of
'CONLOlES              Cuba               Monfali.
Cseaubee lepkia   Poland
a  2aCed on I976 lXF par cApita in 1976 LS dolars.
3 S280 or Ia per capita.
S s281-5so par capita.
d   551-1135  aPr capita.
S1136-2500 per capit.                                                                                                                                                                                     PDF
I over 52500 per capit..



AiNNEX I
-26-                                               ?age 4of 6pages
DEFINITIIONSOF9 qOCI%I TINDICATORS
:ote'   ilacugct- data ore drawn frma sources generally judged the moat authoritative and reflectt.  iL sho.ld also a. noted chat they may not be -ont-
o  aospraieb--us  of zhe lack of  -tadardized definitio-  and concpta  -sed bv different curisi. collecting the dai                                 'h. data ore. on-etheiesa.
13-a   toJsrie orders of magnitude   Indictate trends, and characterize certain ma jor differ.ancs  between cutrie.s
"h. oliaccted .roi swer.... for each indicater are popatation-weighted geometric means., excluding the extreme values of the indicator end the 'most
-ap.iated  - 'acr  in each group.  Coverage of countries   oag the i'sdicatcra depends on awulsbilir  o f data and as rot uniorm    D-s to lack of data.
- r.,  ove~oos  ~catual  B-piu O. il  op ortere and ind tinsra of ...... to o.cte  and e..reca disposal, aouaing. mnc ee dzatnibotion and poverty are
-a.v  ponlectn-viohted gemuatric nears wath..sth Ike .Icazalo  of extreme vatlses.
..AI.) 'lilA   tro-uaro  aq. bin)                                                            Population per hoepital bed - total. urban, and ru ral - Population (total.
-ota. - Total s-rface area comprising land arsa and inland waters.                            urban, and ruret  divided by their respective number of hospital beds
A,Icltlt-tl - Most rece-ntestimate of agricultural area used temporarily                      available in public and priva te general and specialized hzspital and re-
at ae-tanently for crops, pastu-as, market and kitchen gardens or to                        nabilitatioa centers.  Hosapitals are establishments permanently staffed by
leallow,                                                                                at leset one phyaician.  Establisheen to providing principally cuatodial
-:re are net included. Rural bospitals. however. itclade health and 0en1-
SIP ?:i -.,PITA  Lii)  - GNP? pen caicta estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers noc permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical ae-
_.alcua-d bv sana  -ncvarslcn   etnocd ua World Bank Atlas (1975-77 beasI);                 siatant, inure.. midwife. etc.) which offer in-patient accomedation and
146,  70,    and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY C3NStMPIP'ION PER CAPITA - %nca.l cosumption of conmarcial enesgy                       from hoepitale divided by the number of beds.
'coal ind lignite, Petroleum, natural gasaend hydro-, nuclear anxd ges-
.oersail electriclty) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      gOOSINlG
Avragte sine of household (persons per household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPI'ATtON ANT) vITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household c.. aite of a group of inuividuals who share living quar.ters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if sot available.                       end their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
a-erage of Iwo edyear estimates; 1960. 1970, and 1977d dta,                                 the housebold for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
C7ro      ;ouainlaceot of toal)   R atia of urban to total popula-                            bold vary.
ticon; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of parsons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average mum-
r   .at  mamong countries.                                                                 hbr of persons per room in all, urban  . ad rural occupied covetional 
Po..la.t-o  ce...ity                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
7cr  sq. kon. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (iii hectaze.)                      unoccupied parts.
o:f total area.                                                                           ALccese to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total. urban. end rural -
er s.a.agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                           Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
05.7                                                                                       of total, urban, sod rural dwellings respectivelv.
Pa...lation ao. structure tpercent) - Children (i-lb years), working-age
(15-64 "ears), and retired' (65 years and over) as percentages of sid-                 EDUCATIONO
,ear yopulation.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratio.
Fopulation grnwth nate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                       Frimary schooll - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates oft ttal and arban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                           an the primary level a. percescages of repectively primary sohool-ege
196-7  , and 19 0-75.                                                                       populations; normally includes children aged 6-il yearn but adjusrad for
-'.ad  birth rate (Par thousand) - Annual lice births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; focr countries with universal adu-
old-year population; ten-year arithmetic averagee ending in 1960 end                        cation enroll1ent may exceed 110 percent since aome pupils are below or
19?1 acd fiv,e-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent eatimate.                        above the official school age.
Thudn couh rune (pee thousan.d) - Annual deanhs par thousand of mid-                       S ....d.ry school - natal, and female - Computed as above; sacoadary educ-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                       tion requiree at least four years of approved primary instruction; Pr-
and fioe-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                              vides general vcostioral, or teacher training instructious for pupils
;rous  .. recodu.tion rats - Average number of daughters a unman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
un oc- normal reproductive period if she experiences pr.esnt age-                           excluded.
5pccific feetility rates; usually five-pear avarages ending in 1960.                     Vocational anrollo...t bPercent of secondary) - vocational  imeiuioxi-
19701..ad 1975.                                                                             clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Pumio pl-uning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual cumbat of                             or as departments of secondary institutions.
aceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                     Pupil-teachar ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,.                                                                          primary and secondary lavals divided by numbers of teachere in the torre-
Osmuly planning-users (prcrent of maniad woman) - Percetage of                                spondiog I  'sl.
married woman of child-beating age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                  Adult literary rare (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                             a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOO0 AINDI'fURITION                                                                       CONS1IITI0N
indon of food  _r-od.otio. ner capita (1970-100) - Index aumber of pen                    Passenger cars (par thousan.d p.Pulati-c) - Pasa..neer cars compoise mocor cr
capita annual production of all food comoodities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
for capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                     vehicles.
ene rgy equivalent of net food suppliea available in country per capcta                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
-o  day.  Available supplies co-prise domeatic production.  importeleses                 broadcasts to gemaral public pee thousand of population; excludes umilnensed
coporte, and changes in, stock,  get suppli.s exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in  onre  and in years when regiLstraion of radio seta was in
-canities used in Soud processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                      effect; data for recent years may not be comparable aince mset countries
qcirements were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licenaing.
al activity and health considering environmuntal temperature, body                      TSP receivers (par thousand population) - TI' receivers for broadcast to generaL
-eignzs, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                      public par thousand population;  excludes unlicenaed TV receivers in coun-
tent for wate au house.hold levl..                                                          tries and in years when c-gistcraol   of TV sets was In affect.
?er capita supply ad protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulatio  (,per thousand population) - Shows the average  irools-
050110a net supply of food per day.  71st nupply of food is defined as                      tion of "dil           enrl iterest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
uhove.  Requirements for all countries establiahed by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news,  It is considered to
.cra.-.otance of 50 grons cf total pcretin per day and 20 grams                    ha. "daily" If it appears at least four times a week.
tau n.c pulse proteica, of cobbh ii gream  should he aolual proteis.           Cinsu sonual attendanue onr capita pan asar -   ...d on the nuoher of tiok.ta
oc~ t oanarda are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admIssions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
era... .c an imal prt.cin as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
~AO in -'e -h-rd World Food lurvey.
Per capita 'rotein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 EBPLOYNENT
..-votc      I.tul  and pulses in gram. Per day.                                 Tocal lbabr_fos-c  (tho-sands) -tnoial  active persons. iocluding armed
Clii  .000 14)   crtlity rate (per thousand) -dna   eteprIos                            forces and unemplyoyd but ...nluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
ocd in ago group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                  tiona in various countries are non comparable.
Female (percent) - Pemale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
oEALl 7)                                                                                    Asric.lture, (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hnunting and fishing
lIfe  -op-ct-y at bcrto (years) - Average number of years of life                             as percetage sf tocal labor force.
remaii,ing at birtk; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction. manufacturing and
and 1977.                                                                                   electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
--ttc .ortality rate (per th-ouaad) - Annual deaths cf inants under                       Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
ace year of age per thousand live oirhts.                                                   femials, labor forte as percent.ags ad their respective populations.
k-coo cc smet watner (par ...t of population) - total, urban. and ru-a  -                     Th... are 11,0'  udjoated participation  racs eficigs-z
4anner ci people atotal.,urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       strocture of the population. and tang tine  trend.
uOz.  acatr supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated boc                    tononmic dependenc, ratio - Ratio of population under 15 a.. 61 and  vove  to
anoa-tamicated water such as that from procacted boreholee, springs,                        the labor force in age group of 15-6- veers.
and ;acitary walls) as percen.tages of thsir respective 5opulations.
aarbaners   public foun tain on  tcadpost loca.ted not sane                       INCOME DISTRIBUTIONI
-cI.  O7 meters fron a house may ha considered as being within r.a-                     Percentags of orivate income  (both in cas h and kind) received by richestI
accakble  -caess of that ,ouae.  In rural areas reaaonable access would                     percent. richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent, and poorest nO pe-cent
t.si-  taut the houewife or mebers of the ho.sehold do not haws to                          ofhouseholds.
-d a d!sprop-ytioats pert af nha day in fetching the family's
-ceo,.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY 'TARGET IttitPi
'a~ oc-reta diansa-   (percent of copulation) - tonael. urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - arban and total-
a  - foat of ysopio  'total, -b.ra. and rural) served by eacreta                        absolots povorry i-on  L-1e is than ...... le vel below  hcice a  it.m
-ca:  s yerccntagos of their respective populations.  Excreta                         nutrItional ly adequate dtet plus assontia, non-food requirements is oct
ou  cY In-c,e the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
'tt    f i    --o 2'tt  and wc-acrby  atzr-born.sascsus                         Estimated relative poverty Income level iUSB par capita  - a-tan cd rural1
,uo at711 oran   -   simiolar intlain.Relative poverty  income Level is that inom  lvel less than  -ne-third
orcaaac-Population divided by number of practicing                      par -apita personal inoose of the rountry. 
* '. aui!acc from  a -edl.-1 school at university level.                      istimated Population helow poverty income leve  (per ...t' - urban and rar1 
~ccrscca - Pcoulatlon divided oy number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are sither "abalonte poor" or
a  scccr-nele graduatecrs.  practical oucoe... an d                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
t,oonomic ad Scoizi D.a            iao
cnoic Analysis and Projections Departzent



- 27-
PM~~-N, nATA                               Page   5  of  6   ppges
Actual                         Pro3ected              1.966..  1971 -   1976-   1978 -
~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                1~~~~~~2m  192n       1978        19     1983D        ?7. 771   76    -1.81       19 33     1967    1978    196!
3-Yer Avera   at1974/ 1075 Prices &Exchange Rates                Yea-~ l  E,- Ra-es                   As Percent cf lOy
'roscoestic Product              ,506.9   2025        ,2.2       ,4.1               3,'.0        '         *     6.4         .8       101.3   95.9    1.6
Ostos from Terms of Trade  Ln ,. v7S1a00C                                      43-13                                                                ~       -.
Gros4 inmestic Icome          T.5tt5 2Tl7                                7                     ~ ~~                :        :        T    -M-7
Import (mncl. NPS)                   498.5      611.3    663.9       910.3    981.6  1,063.8    6.7         1.3       5.2      2.1        33.5   31.3        32.1
pEt-orts   "  (import capacity)    4L           15a. 5.   657(. 5    611.2    853.5    92,0.4    7.4        2.2        3.1     1.3         30.2   30.6       28.3
Resource Gap                                     9 7 - 0-.   6- Z   --.j 
Consumption Expenditures           1,253.9   1,729.6  1,809.6   2,166.1  2,45o.3  2,724.8    8.7            1.7        4.9     4.5         81o.3   81.8      62.9
investment   "  (Socl. stocks)    i34.3         376.2    108.1       582.7    661.7    696.1        .9      2.0      10.?      2.8        12.4   21.9        21.2
Domestic Saving                      233.3      285.3    401.6        483.3    553.7    562.7    6.3        5.7      11.1      2.1         1'5.7   16.2      17.1
National Savings                     177.7      242.0    337.5       417.7    473.2    4.69.4    7.2        5.1       11.1      1.2        12.0   15.8       14.3
MERCHML.T,SF TPALE                            AnnuaLl Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent Of Total
-      imports
capital goods                       40.8       89.1    144.8       36.       336.6    464.1   16.9    20.2          12.8      e.6        21.7   38.6       34.1
Intermne-iiste zoods ~m1fuels)    87.3        133.6    257.2       313.1   5,10.1    613.9    8.9    12.8          11.8    13.1         4,6.4   37.1       47.7
F.els and related materials          8.3       15.2      52.8       81.3                  -     12.9    28.7                              4  .14    8.8 
of which:  Petroleum               8.3       15.2    5,2.8        81.3       -          -     1.2.9    28.7         .                   .14    8.8 
Cons-.octlor goos               651.6      64.9    Ill         142.    190.7    2L1.1   12I. L        8.5      11.8    10.9         2'14               !--.I 
Total Mccxli. Inprts(cr)               6   -7            6T-T2o. -767651,34.    100                      1.3       13.0    10.0         100.0  130.0    I003
E   .x   e prsortS-77                                                           1,Z-5--,    7     100      1
Epolvrts   prouct    el. ,..Is)    1243.6      199.9    158.0       787.8    882.5  1,105.7    6.8    16.7          1.2.0    10.1         90.8   96.8       94.15
Fueis a.rd related m,aterials        -                               -         7.9        7.6      .        .                                                .6
at' which:  Petroleum              -                               -         1.3       7.6       .                  .       .                
Manuf3ctured oo6s                  11.6       20.9      32.6       35.7       41.2      5,7.1    7.1    2-2.2      16.7    17.3          9.2    3.2,       4.9
Total Merch. imornts (fob)         1 =        769    4o .          BI.73   -7=   I,to.           6.9    16.9        12.5      7.7      7=                --=
Tourism and Boraer TraAe
M-cradisoct   Trade Indices                     Average 19,74/75   100
Extort Price Index                  17.5       57.1    100.0       169.6    155.7    173.9    9.8    10.0          10.0       .5
import Price Index                  13i.7      58.9    100.0       13L.2    165.6    1%.0    7.0    15.1            9.0      7.2
Terms or Trade Index                91.9       97.0    100.0       12643.     94.0      91.5    1.8    -1.5          .9   --6.7
Exports Volume Index                78.2       93.6    100.0       104.3    143.2    162.2    1.1         2.4       7.8      5.6
VALOE ADDED R-Y S.-CTOR-            A04m4l nats at 1974/75 Prices enrd Exchanoe listen              Average Annual Growth Fates          As Percent of Tu-tal
Agriculture                        522. 4     659.7    733.9       821.5    961.9  _1,047.7    35.        3.6       3.5      4.9        31.7   32.1       31.:-
Industry and Mining        ~      262.1      371.8    414.8        516.9    683.2    767,6   10. 4        3.1       9.6      6.2        17.4   70.!       22'
Service                   .       722.41       ,8  0 1,06!.__ ___  i______4  L______7______
2ota.l              .1,5   .9  ~~2,032.5  2,212.2   2539.2  3,094 3,371. 3    *'.5             2.5       6 .1     5.8         =10.   ZC0    -131.10
P!JBLII FZIIAIJCE                                                                                                                          As Percen.t of 3;:P
TCentral Ooveirnment, :srrent prices 1%d exchange rates)                                                                                 122i 
Current Receipts                  129.       212.       36.         65.2    836.0      .        12.3    17.7       11.9      ..       17.       15.2      il~.
Current Expenditures              129.6       168.0    326.        467.6    624.0o     .         7.3    16.1       10.1       .       15.1      :1.:7     15.
Lugietary i-ug                       -.51     21.9       37.5     107.6    212.0       .                27.6       25.4      2.a.                3.5       1.:
Other Public Sector I/             13.8         0.8      71.9     208.3    -26.o       .          .        .         .       .                   6.2       2.3
Public Seccr Investent        69.3      120.6    205.5       484.5    573.2      ..       18       261          .7      .           '       56        63
US S
CnOL-REXTPEEIDIT2E  rETAILS                    Actual         Prelim.   Est.    Proj.           ETAIL 0N                                ALt 1*71i           c -
Aks I Total Correr.t Expena.,1 3497    19 72                 19"       1c        96.          ?IT.IC SECTOR                      Poartl   HZ.a       o   -s
Education                                          'T.       21.3      24. 3      ..          i1S~T?OrpW4                           (19-76  !7    1?o   v,
Other Social Services                       .7     6.9         8.8       9.1      .           SociaLl Sectors                          453.2          0'
Agriculture                               3.6       3.7        1.1       4.7     ..           Agriculture                              365.1         16.z
Othier Economic Services                 11.6       8.0        7.5      8.8       .           Industry end Mining                       3  9q         3.:
Ad.inlstratios and lfse59.6    59.6                           53.0      19.8     ..           Power                                    333 5         14..
tIther                                    8.8    11.1          '.1                            Transport end co=.riicatl.ur.
Total Current Expenditurxes             100.0   100.0       100.0)    100.0   100.70          Otner1E3
______________________________________________________________________________ Totalot xpendpenditures          2, 4510 10
SE1,EC-.  iniDICTIs                                 1960-       1967-    1971-   19761-         FINANSCING
(CalcUlated from 3-year averaged data)              1965        1971      1976    1981i
Average 1009                          ..        2.30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  'G:4s   -3- 5  Putlic Srctor Savinigs        652.0          2e.9
IZTPort Ela.sticity                                   .          .81       .514      8             Local borrowing                        03            'I
.rgna   inestic Savings Rate                         ..         .08       .23      .23            Foreigr. fiinarcing                I'>. 
M'Arginal National Savings Rate                       .          .08       .11      .24            Total Fi-.srcing                   2,253.-         !75=
Total imooVMent 2'                                  Value Added Per Wcr?cn'lt              Prices .E .
I'~~~~1OV'~~~~~T ~-                           I or                  19 -  i71 - 74     In U.S.0011s.-s      Pret.CAe-g
19.2        19"'    19 71       19 7'     Grow~th Pate         19         19           19         19         Crow'h Batt
Agriculture                   -8,0o52     89,511      31.0       30.6          1.7               ..
InCdu3tryl,                  C9,825      68,635       23.7       23.6         4.7                ..
Servicet                    i141.1       133.101      4v.3       11~A         s.                 .     
tOtal               ~~~~~~~~ ~~~252,040    292,373    130.0  100.0     5.1                ..
rot applicable           ni  or =  =egig~io.e~
nlot available        .  less than half' the
smallest urit shown
L/'Including construction and public utilities
1! odern sector only
.'uPblic sector saving~s, Includine stabilization fund suarplus, less amoortization "  public diebt.



-28 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
&IANCt OF FASS  ZFsRNA.L ASISDANCK AD0 DWE
(3ao ts  n mtillicne o  U.S. dollare  t cirrent pflc.aJ
Avn. Ameal
Actual                         Eetimted                                     Projected                                     Drovth Rots
i9-S    19"7 1                                    977 1 m                                 I=f 12t  ct  d   l             h3 1777-1123
3SUART 3ALANCE OF PAYIGN75
E-or   (joel. 5923                      ''v.2       '76.3        64.7        6.0.7        793.9          1,o33.4     1,077.3    l,lsO.8       1,244.4      1,399.6     1,557.7         L2.0
422.0       514.6        703.1       792.0         925.5         1,161.5      1,192.0     1,340.6      1,385.1     1,6 390      1,7t3.7         1L.6
F     -Io.Q  61.4       -tl           4 2.0       -16             -114.7                   -16.8         MZ7        -239.4      t2
rrceS.> 2                    -4.2        -9.e        -11.3       -14.6         -25.0           -42.4        -49.5        -56.3       -67,4        -73.2       -9..9         2%.
r7u,P- L: rMcr.rs:t Incoa                --.2        -15.5       -27.2        -30.2        -36.0            -39.9       a-5.8        -52.7        -60.6       -69.7        -80.2        12.7
Woricors' iinojttonoa                    -,0.4      _41.4        -34.2        -30.4        -31.2            -36.8       -40.4        -44.5       -48.9        -53.6       -59.2         10.4
11.9        6.5        12.8         25.3         20.6             30.6         33.6        37.0         40-7        43.S         46.6         11.
pr:v;-e BOract Incesott                   -7.5        15.2        24.5         34.5         37.9             43.8         tL.o         t.5         93.0       100.0        10'5.        19.5
ci'fc-i lapital Gran.                      11.2       13.9        19.7         30.1          27.4            22.4         22.4        22.4         22.4        30.0         30.0
Putl.c li Lo3ato
SIis..wzoe,o ta                         *-3.3       5C.3        73,0        138.9        231.1            236.3       734.6        317.1        249,4       385.2        39. 8        13.6
-3eo  rast:a                             -7.1       -11.3       -14.3        -20.5        -28.3            -44.2       -62.2        -73.8       -79.3        -97.4      -105.6         26.
721                                               11-.0t -                                 2237 l3d. l 275                           2 3       10.5
DM-e MU T LDnn
aL-.-:&ent2                              34.7        9.4        21.3         30.3
-7.5       -8.0       -17.2        -13.2
C1p -,1 Tr--ucetono.  -..I.              -19.3       -39.5       -21,2        -3.4          -74.1                                        Act                               al 1953
254g     No tt Re-w-e                  -.2        30.7       -50.5         4.8           .4.4         MrO  DM   SE RVCE
PUblic Debt Out. i wtauregd  238.4        274.3      374.6     529.3      2,073.2
5:1:l  Onoone & Gr  nt-Sib.               41.9       .47.         77.1         ..            ..              Oteorft .., Public Debt       9.6       12.1      150.      19.3          986.3
Poll:,- SiLT icarno                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RaPaoento on Public Debt    15.0  12.0  20.7  21.7  1i2.6
>3 i7: . !z._T Loan3 .                                                                              Total PFblie Debt Ser-rI,     24.6       35.1      35.8       41.0        193.9
-.E                                   27.7        34.1         1.0        34.3           ..            Other Debt Servic  (rut)        ..         ..
C A                                    24,0         -          01.2        25.0           r, Potal Debt Service (rnt)                   ..         ..
ntur YltiL.t-rai                        16.3         -          lo.8        30.8           ..           Zrods, on  port hrnpnn   (S)
_oernt                                  32.5       44.8         99.7       29.4
FLunpI:rn  .nstiWu4                                   .4          7.1          6                         P91ic Debt Service              4.6        4.1       5.4        5.9        12.4
Pinoscial Sootituanno        -        ~~~~~~64.6  il.          87.             .            Total Debt Service..                        .
841.20                                    -          -            -          -             ..            T0D0.Oract Drhot. lne.           ..         ..
Public ;Ucrc t.a.t.                       _          _            -         29.0
lotal Pubc ir   5 144LT - laau           l9          144.83      167.        3                           Average T.r.w of Puiblic Dbt
Aot.n4 Ibbt O-tasMlng no Dec. 31 ?6                           Lnt. a,   i Prior  eaIr DOD     4.9       4.7        5.5       5.2          4.9
OWERIAL DEB                                    DMSbartod Trip                Percert            tnArt. oa I Prior Tw  DO38                    7.6   7    -9        '     -5  7.9          5.9
Ird                                                Do7.                     12.                          IERD Debt Out. & Dieboree        23.1       28.7      49.7       57.7       2-5.0
Othe- ?bltilater.1                                  39.6                     7.5                              a   S Public Debt OAD        9.7       10."      13.3       10.9        12.3
0oero0 nto                                         190.7                    36.0                              a sc  S Public Dbt Service    7.6       8.5      10.4       11.4   1 .7
vonnicee.                                           16.4                     3.1
pitaict  tIntitutiona                              143.9                    27.9                         20A Debt Out. 1 Otaburred        30.1       34.1      49.9       67.8       12'.6
..d.                                                                          _                            "   % % PUblic Debt O1D        12.6       12.4      13.3       12.8         3.9
Public tabta o.a.i                                   9.5                     1.8                              al S Public Debt Satic.        .7       1.2        .8        1.5         1.0
TotaL Public ML/LT 1. 5Dbt                                                 CtT
Oth-r HUT1 Debto
3hort-t.a Debt (&I.b. -n)..
not applicable                                                   a  st. f etint
tot ava 1bl.                                                     - nil or negliibl
..ot 001Abl1  secorately                                       --  les t5n htelf the
b.t  oldd in total                                                  sonllot mit ahove



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                 Amount
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower       Purpose                     Bank   IDA /1  Undisbursed
Six Credits and seven Loans have been fully                  55.7     73.2        -
disbursed
161-CM    1969   Cameroon       Education I                          11.7       0.0 /2
320-CM    1972   Cameroon       Education II                          9.0       3.8
935-CM    1973   Cameroon       Roads II                    24.0                0.3
983-CM    1974   Cameroon       Livestock                   11.6                1.5
1039-CM    1974   Cameroon       Cocoa                        6.5                2.0
574-CM    1975   Cameroon       Niete Rubber Project                 16.0       3.0
575-CM    1975   Cameroon       DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                   3.0      1.8
S4-CM    1976   REGIFERCAM   Railways                      2.3                 0.8
1245-CM    1976   Cameroon       Education III               17.0               14.9
1321-CM    1976   NPAC           Second Douala Port          15.0                8.1
672-CM    1977   Cameroon       Plaine des M Bo
Rural Develop.                      2.0       1.2
673-CM    1977   Cameroon       Technical Assistance                  4.5       4.0
723-CM    1977   Cameroon       Rural Devt. Fund                      7.0       6.7
1391T-CM   1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM              7.0                5.5
1392-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM             18.0               14.3
749-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                          6.5       5.9
1494-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                 4.6                4.6
1508-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second CAMDEV               15.0               12.2
776-CM    1978   Cameroon       Zapi East Integrated
Agric.                              8.5      8.3
784-CM    1978   Cameroon       Western Highlands
Rural Develop.                     13.0     13.0
763-CM    1978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice                    14.5       7.1
1512-CM    1978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice           14.5               14.5
1515-CM    1978   Cameroon       Third Highway               16.5                9.0
TOTAL                                   207.7    168.9    142.5
of which has been repaid                8.7       5.3
TOTAL now outstanding                   199.0    163.6
Amount sold                     7.7
of which has been repaid    5.1         2.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and
IDA 1/                                196.4    163.6
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                        87.7      54.8    142.5
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Balance of $37,087.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 30, 1979)
Amount in US$ millions
Investment      Fiscal                  Type of
Number         Year    Obligor        Business             Loan    Equity   Total
311 CM          1975      Bata S.A.    Shoe Factory            -       0.38    0.38
335 CM          1977      SAFACAM       Rubber Plantation    -         0.81    0.81
430 CM          1979      SAFACAM       Rubber Plantation    -         0.40    0.40
Total gross commitments                                        -       1.59    1.59
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            0.25    0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                              -       1.34    1.34
Total undisbursed                                              -       0.25    0.25
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320                 Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
All project-financed schools have been constructed except for the
adult vocational training center in Douala which is about 95 percent completed
and is expected to become fully operational by mid-1979. Recruitment of
technical assistance for the vocational training center is underway and all
specialists should be in post in mid-1979. To allow full execution of the
technical assistance component, an extension of the closing date from June 30,
1979 to December 31, 1981, is expected.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935 Second Highway Project: US$24 million Credit of
September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978; and US$24
Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was satis-
factorily completed in December 1976, of the Figuil-Mora section (163 km)
of the Garoua-Mora road in July 1977, and of the Douala-Pont du Nkam road
(161 km) in July 1978. The road maintenance study and the reconnaissance
study of forest evacuation roads were completed in May and December 1978
respectively. Technical assistance is being provided to the Department of
Highways since April 1977. The project suffered from the 1973/74 world-wide
inflation, which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government
agreed to postpone construction of the Garoua-Figuil road section (95 km).
A supplementary credit of US$15 million was approved in March 1976 to help
alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overrun.
Loan No. 983               Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign is expected to clear
about 500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha. The credit
scheme has exceeded the appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of
repayment is excellent. Slaughterhouse construction is nearing completion,
with operations foreseen for late 1979. Additional training of slaughter-
house managers is under consideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the
least succesful of the project components, in spite of completed physical
development of two of the ranches, and acceptable progress towards the
completion of the third. Lower than expected technical performance, as well
as delayed implementation and rising cattle costs have now cast serious doubt
on the continued financial viability of these ranches. Alternate means of
dealing with the financial situation are being analyzed in preparation for
discussions to be held with Government. A second livestock project, appraised
in February/March 1979, would help government expand the successful components
of this project,.
Loan No. 1039              Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Farmers responded well to last year's price increase from CFAF 150
to CFAF 220 per kg for Grade I cacao. Government has this year, further
increased the price from CFAF 220 to CFAF 260 and production from the SODECAO
zone could reach 110-115,000 tons in the 1978/79 season. However, SODECAO's
management problems are still unresolved. A reorganization study has been
completed and the consultants' report is under review. Attempts are in
progress to recruit a new Managing Director for the Company.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 574                 Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16 million Credit
of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 1,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
HEVECAM has now overcome initial difficulties and is well organized
to carry out its program. A cost overrun is expected due chiefly to a
combination of: (a) inflation greater than foreseen; (b) changes in the
method of land clearing; and (c) Government's desire to upgrade labor housing
standards and the number of professionals in training. Government, however,
increased its participation in the capital by CFAF 1.4 billion, in support of
the Project.  A follow-up project was appraised in April 1979.  A first phase
report on the Kribi master plan study has been received and the second phase
is underway.
Cr. No. 575                 Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$3
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is
almost fully committed and disbursements have started.
Ln. No. S-4                 Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineer-
ing Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25, 1976;
Effectiveness Date; October 5, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the new Douala
Station has been completed. A preliminary design study for the Yaounde
locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities will soon
be completed. The consulting services initially provided under the Second
Railway Project are being carried out but additional technical assistance will
still be needed to fully implement the recommendations of the consultants.
As planned, this engineering loan is to be refinanced under the Fourth
Railway Project which is presented in this report.
Ln. No. 1245-T              Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Construction contracts for most project financed-institutions are
being signed. The lower secondary technical school in Douala is about 95
percent completed.  Changes in Government plans for agricultural education
have held up contract award for the agricultural technician training institute
by about 18 months; however, its construction is expected to start in July
1979. Agricultural training experts financed by the project are in place;
work on curriculum design and the introduction of practical courses is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Preinvestment studies for a fourth education project
are underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1321               Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million Loan
Cr. No. 657                of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981; and US$10
million Credit of same date; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well. Proposals to incorporate facilities at the container berth to handle
increasing volumes of roll on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors.
Although latest cost estimates indicate a small overrun, this has been cov-
ered by pledge of additional financing from some of the other donors and
Government.
Cr. No. 672                Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:  US$2
million Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Results of the 1977 second season and the first 1978 cycle confirm
that the project is facing considerable problems related to soil fertility,
management systems, and rice yields. In addition to the critical field trial
program designed for 1978-80, high priority should be given to a land-use
suitability survey, to allocate land to various categories of development.
This survey would involve: (a) a pedologic survey for the 1,200 ha of
cleared land; (b) a topographic mapping of 40 ha; (c) a hydrologic survey to
identify potential water availability for the irrigation system under study;
and (d) development of a 30 ha experimental plot for irrigation trials.
Data and recommendations for a possible follow-up project can be expected
about April 1981; since project financing is assured only to the end of
1979, additional finance estimated at US$955,000 is required. This finance
is expected to be provided by Government.
Cr. No. 673                Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The recruitment of long-term advisory consultants is in process.
The senior agricultural economist and the agronomist have joined their posts
in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Association has approved their ini-
tial work program. Delays have occurred in the appointment of a financial
analyst in the Ministry of Agriculture but a candidate is now being selected.
Five short-term consultancies required for the preparation of bankable
projects in several sectors have also been approved. With the arrival of
the first experts in the field, it has become evident that a strengthening
of the Project's central coordination unit and a streamlining of certain
administrative procedures are required to allow the experts to work more
effectively and project implementation to proceed smoothly. These matters
have been thoroughly discussed with the Government and administrative
difficulties have lessened recently.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 723                Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The well improvement program is up-to-date while the other village
water supply components--boreholes and small dams construction--are behind
schedule, mainly caused by delays in the arrival of materials and equipment.
All project staff are in place; however, local personnel costs are consider-
ably higher than expected. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials
through ICB is on schedule. A hand-pump test program is underway to help
decide on the type to be bought for equipping wells and boreholes. The Rural
Engineering Service garage and workshop have been successfully reorganized.
SEMRY is expected to finalize the feasibility study for the bottomland
development by June 1979. About 100 loans have been allocated under the
stall-fattening credit scheme. Procedures to provide loans for market
gardening development have been approved by IDA; motor pumps would be used,
procured under local competitive bidding.
Ln. No. 1392                Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391T              Third Window Loan:  US$7 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
SOCAPALM's General Manager passed away and an interim appointment
has been made; fortunately a competent candidate was available and the day-
to-day management of the company is assured. New plantings are proceeding
satisfactorily but the production potential from earlier plantings is not
being achieved due to labor problems, inadequate maintenance and processing
difficulties. In consequence SOCAPALM's revenues from mature plantings remain
below expectations. In agreement with Government appropriate measures have
been taken to strengthen the company including the recruitment of new staff
for certain key posts. Progress has been made towards establishing the
Coastal Estates Center to provide services to a group of plantation companies
with common interests, including CAMDEV and HEVECAM (Loan 1508-CM and Credit
574-CM).
Cr. No. 749                Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit of
Ln. No. 1494               December 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 7,
1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983; and US$6.5
million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
March 7, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
After a six-month delay in selecting the technical assistance
team, the starting up of the project is gathering speed. The Central Feeder
Roads Unit is being established, equipment ordered and local staff recruited
and trained.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1508                Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The second CAMDEV project started well with land clearing, proceed-
ing on schedule at Kompina and with excellent nursery material available for
the first plantings. All of the key posts have now been filled with competent
personnel acceptable to the Bank.
Cr. No. 776                Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Key staff have been appointed. A contract has been signed by ZAPI
with "Planning Assistance, Inc." for provision of management and planning
training and the development of a monitoring system. Letters of agreement
have been signed with all cooperating agencies. Bidding documents have been
issued for the provision of vehicles and for coffee hulling and grading
equipment.
Cr. No. 784                Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Recruitment procedures of other technical aid personnel are pro-
gressing well. Transfer of lower level extension staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture to UCCAO has started according to proposed phasing of appraisal.
Cr. No. 763                Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512               of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and with highly
qualified staff. Contracts have been signed for the main civil works and
engineering services, and orders have been placed for over 90 percent of the
force account equipment. Costs have remained well within appraisal estimates.
The main civil works are expected to be completed on schedule in June 1979;
force account works are progressing satisfactorily. The co-donor, Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), has agreed to finance a comple-
mentary program of US$2 million involving support components in project
evaluation, agricultural research, livestock and fisheries development and
a reafforestation program.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1515               Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing well. Construction of the
Garoua-Figuil road is expected to be substantially completed by July 1979. The
Government has hired an economist/statistician to assist in transport planning
within the Ministry of Transport. Because of currency realignments, there is
an overrun of US$4.9 million (16 percent of the total project cost) which will
be borne by the Government.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project was identified during course of Second Railway
project in 1975. An engineering loan was approved in
May 1976. Project was appraised in May/June 1978 and
a post-appraisal mission took place in December 1978.
(b) Departure appraisal mission: May 25, 1978
(c)  Negotiations completed:  May 2, 1979
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: End-September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Regifercam will implement a manpower plan after review by
the Bank and will limit staff increases to imperative needs
for railway operations until the plan is finalized and
carried out (para. 32).
2.   Regifercam will set up the Organization and Methods units by
December 31, 1979 and will assign qualified and experienced
Cameroonians in adequate numbers to the experts to be
employed in these units.
3.   The Borrower will, from its 1981 fiscal year:  prepare an
investment budget and corresponding financing plan covering
all railway related investments (para. 33).
4.   An Action Plan to improve operations has been submitted to
the Bank by Regifercam's management and was agreed upon
during negotiations. The Plan indicates the operational
targets that management undertakes to achieve during
the next four years and enumerates the means by which the
Action Plan will be implemented (para. 35).
5.   Regifercam will make by December 1980 appropriate arrange-
ments to construct the passenger station in Douala by the
time of completion of the Bank-financed related facilities
(para. 43).



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
6.   Regifercam will obtain the Bank's prior approval for any
capital investment of more than US$2.5 million until com-
pletion of the project and for any long-term borrowing
exceeding a periodically agreed aggregate amount (para. 51).
7.   Regifercam will not maintain an aggregate amount of bank
overdraft facilities in excess of CFAF 800 million (para. 37).
8.   Regifercam will ensure that its working ratio will not
exceed 75 percent for FY1980, 72 percent in FY81, 70 percent
for FY1982 and until completion of the Yaounde-Douala road,
and 75 percent thereafter (para. 53).
9.   Regifercam will ensure that the freight services on its
Western line and its passenger services cover at least 60
percent of the total cost of such services (para. 52).
10.   Regifercam has agreed to depreciate its motive power and
rolling stock and, beginning FY1982, its track material on
the basis of replacement cost to be determined now and in
FY1982 respectively, and thereafter every three years
(para. 33).
11.   The Government will submit to the Bank a study to determine
the optimum solution for improving the rail section between
Edea and Maloume and will not make any investment on this
rail section unless it is economically justified (para. 30).
12.   The Government will provide Regifercam with sufficient
funds to protect the railway's liquidity should the
need arise (para. 54).
13.   The Government will provide from FY1981 specific offsetting
subsidies to Regifercam, should it object to measures
proposed by the railway to reduce losses in freight traffic
on the Western line and in passenger services (para. 52).
14.   The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and Regifercam, which establishes the on-lending
terms for the IDA credit, is a condition of effectiveness
(para. 44).
15.   A condition of disbursement of funds for the Yaounde loco-
motive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities
is that Regifercam shall have furnished to the Bank design
and engineering plans for the facilities to be constructed
and a proposed maintenance policy for motive power and rolling
stock, which are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48).



IA A I I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i2                      1JANUARY I
N J G E R  C H A D~ ~~~~~U janha  eep~pAUy A
cOosk,           SUDAN          RcjakcsIeoA,E
UPPE'Rk,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Oh pntoUOik,Ioa
VOLTA  ~~                                                         oUnlatynoR
> I012J                /~F  i CENTRAL AFRICAN           -
>    U                         EM~~~~~~~~NPIRE
~A CAMEROON~\                    ~-                  -.> 
C,,j~~~~IO  GUINEA  ~~~~~~~HA-
Y~~~   1C~ O;OO     Z AIR E
A.i/o'oho- Or6AON                                         - 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                                       G-d?
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IS              NA~~~~XITIONG AMEROONRAILWAY
NATIONAL                              20 411 1(11  0101 120 140 I
UNIEAVED) ROADSc                                 KILOMETERS
-   --PROVINCIAL                                       MIL~ D    ES B  R
-----DSRIVER
F, ORTS
*  INTERNATIONAL AiREORTE
INTERN4ATIONAL ROUNDARIEIA
N I  E R I Ac~ L- 
Ku& Ea.b0                                                                                     7
110                g.10,        RAOIkSm   C/
/0*
Mban qR             (I                             Eboko 
'EQUATORIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOA
Coerpol Ny                 AnI t NuOdZe
M.y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
MAC ASUAO NGUEMAj    A1N                                                                                 C      NG
-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t -- 04'



