긔


﻿011
LOAN NUMBER 1734 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and REGIE NATIONAJ-4E DES CHEMINS DE FER DU CAMEROUN (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith (the Guarantee
Agreement) between the United Republic of Cameroon (the Guarantor)
and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan and
to undertake certain obligations with respect to the Project;
(C) the Guarantor has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association)
to provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Pro ect and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Guarantor and the Association (hereinafter called the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Credit) which the Guarantor will make available to the Borrower
as provided in the Development Credit Agreement;
(D) the Guarantor and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are
made;
(E) by a loan agreement dated June 25, 1976 (hereinafter
called the 1976 Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the
Bank, the Bank made a loan (No. S-4 CM: hereinafter called the
1976 Loan) to the Borrower in various currencies equivalent to
two million three hundred thousand dollars ($2,300,000) to assist
in financing consultantst services required for the preparation
and design of Part A of the Project;
(F) the Bank is prepared to refund the outstanding amount
of the 1976 Loan out of the proceeds of the Loan provided for
herein;
t


﻿-2-
(G) pursuant to loan agreements dated June 9, 1970, and
September 18, 1974, the Bank had previously made two loans (No.
687 CM and No. 1038 CM, respectively) to the Borrower to assist in
financing two prior railway projects; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "REGIFERCAM Decree" means the Guarantor's Decree No.
74/1011 dated December 24, 1974, together with the Cahier des
Charges financieres et techniques of the Borrower attached to
the Guarantor's Decree No. 65/DF/367 of August 18, 1965, providing
for the establishment, organization and powers of the Borrower, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(b) "1974 Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower dated September 18, 1974, refeired to in
Recital (G) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(c) "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the currency of
the Guarantor;
(d) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from


﻿-3-
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement and any
agreement supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
(e) "Credit" means the development credit provided for in
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, as defined
in Section 1.02 (d) of said Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
seven million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the 1976 Loan
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿77
-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other ch, rges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial, engineering and railways
management practices.
Section 3.02. In order to secure assistance in supervising
the works under Parts A, C and D and in carrying out Parts E
and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installat on, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such lani and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, at its
request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿71
-6 -
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part E (iii) of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1980,
submit to the Bank for its review and comments a proposed manpower
development plan designed to match the qualifications and number
of its personnel with its operational needs, and carry out such
plan over the following five years; (ii) annually furnish to the
Bank a report on the progress realized towards the objectives of
such plan; and (iii) ensure that any increase in the total number
of its staff be limited, until such plan is being carried out,
to peremptory operational requirements.
Section 3.07. By December 31, 1980, the Borrower shall make
appropriate arrangements to construct an adequate passenger
station building and access roads for the passenger station
facilities included in Part A (ii) of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
December 31, 1979, set up the three units included in Part E (ii)
of the Project with such organization, functions and responsibili-
ties as shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) assign
qualified and experienced Cameroonians in adequate numbers to
the experts assisting in the carrying out of said Part of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
sound business, financial, engineering and railway practices and
under the supervision of competent and experienced management.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all licenses, consents and other
rights which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its lines, workshops, telecommunication system, rolling stock,
machinery, equipment and other property, and make promptly all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering practices, with due regard to economic and financial
considerations.


﻿I-II
-7-
(d) Except in the normal course of business, the Borrower
shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. Before the start of each fiscal year until
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall review, in consul-
tation with the Bank, its technical assistance requirements for
such fiscal year, as well as the arrangements made or to be made
in order to meet such requirements so as to enable the Borrower
to perform its obligations under Sections 3.01 and 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement.
Section 4.04. In order to ensure satisfactory growth of its
traffic volume and to increase the efficiency of its operations,
the Borrower shall promptly take all steps necessary to carry out
the measures and to meet the objectives and targets set forth in
an Action Plan agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower,
and the Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain from the
Guarantor or its agencies or entities such approvals, consents and
decisions as may be required from time to time for this purpose.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors. acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to th. Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
request,ed; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information


﻿-71
-8-
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges OLI, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property, or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) In order to determine the annual deprecia-
tion allowances on its fixed assets to be covered from its oper-
ating revenues, the Borrower shall provide for the following
allowances:
(i) an annual depreciation allowance on its fixed
assets based on the acquisition cost and the
average service life of such assets; and
(ii) in respect of its motive power and rolling stock
and, starting in its fiscal year 1981/82, its
track material, an additional allowance based
on the difference between the replacement cost
and the acquisition cost of such items, taking
into account their average service life.
(b) For purposes of subparagraph (a) (ii) of this Section,
the Borrower shall promptly determine the replacement cost of


﻿its motive power and rolling stock and, during its fiscal year
1981/82, of its track material, and shall thereafter update the
replacement cost of all such items at least every three years.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall assess the economic and
financial justification and the appropriate pricing of its ser-
vices by line, commodity and type of service on a continuing
basis. To that end, the Borrower shall maintain and improve its
current costing system so that it shall at all times be satis-
factory to the Bank, and use it inter alia to establish, on a
regular basis, the total as well as the long- and short-term
marginal costs of its services.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps
required on its part (including, without limitation, appropriate
tariff increases) to ensure that, as from December 31, 1980, gross
revenues from passenger services on its entire network and from
freight services on its Western line cover at least 60% of the
total cost of such services. The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, not later than June 30, 1981, a study of the measures which
will enable the Borrower to cover the long-term marginal costs of
such services through operating revenues from such services,
including any necessary adjustments of the percentage specified in
this Section.
Section 5.07. (a) For its fiscal year 1980/81 and each tiscal
year thereafter, the Borrower shall prepare an investment and
corresponding financing plan covering all capital investments
to be made by the Borrower as well as any other capital invest-
ments for railways in the Guarantor's territory during such fiscal
year, regardless of the source of financing thereof.
(b) Until five years after completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for review and comment, the
Borrower's proposed operating budget and investment plan for each
fiscal year, as well as any subsequent proposals for modifications
of such investment plans, not later than thirty days prior to con-
sideration of such proposed budgets, plans or modifications by the
Borrower's Board of Directors or, in the case of annual budgets
or plans, the beginning of such fiscal year, whichever is earlier.
Section 5.08. (a) Until completion of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall not undertake any capital investment other than the
Project estimated to cost in the aggregate more than the equiva-
lent of two million five hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000)
without the prior approval .of the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) In addition to its obligations pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section and without any limitation thereon, the Borrower
shall not undertake or cause to be undertaken, without prior con-
sultation with the Bank, any new capital investment on its Western
line estimated to cost more than the equivalent of two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) within a twelve-month period.
Section 5.09. (a) The Borrower shall obtain the Bank's prior
approval before incurring any long-term debt, unless the debt to
be incurred shall be within the aggregate amount (if any) of new
borrowings by the Borrower which may be agreed upon from Lime
to time between the Bank and the Borrower with regard to this
Section.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "long-term
debt" means all debt of the Borrower, including debt for the
service of which the Borrower is responsible, maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall use bank overdraft facili-
ties only in exceptional circumstances and for limited time
periods and shall not, after December 31, 1979, maintain at any
time an aggregate amount of bank overdrafts in excess of eight
hundred million CFA francs (CFAF800,000,000).
Section 5.11. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such action (including, without
limitation, appropriate tariff increases) as shall be required to
enable the Borrower to maintain a working ratio of not more than
0.75 in its fiscal year 1979/80, not more than 0.72 in its fiscal
year 1980/81, not more than 0.70 in any subsequent fiscal year
until completion of construction of the new paved Douala-Yaounde
highway, and not more than 0.75 in any fiscal year thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the working ratio for each fiscal year shall
be calculated by dividing the working expenses of
the Borrower during such year by the Borrower's
operating revenue for such year;
(ii) the term "working expenses" means all expenses
for operating and maintaining the facilities of
the Borrower, including administrative expenses
related thereto and taxes, if any, but excluding
depreciation and debt service requirements; and


﻿- 11 -
(iii) the term "operating revenue" means the gross
operating revenue resulting from the Borrower's
services.
Section 5.12. (a) The 1974 Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:
(i) Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.08, 5.09 and 5.11 of this
Agreement, as such Sections may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower, supersede Sections 5.04, 5.05 (a), 5.07,
5.08 and 5.10, respectively, of the 1974 Loan
Agreement; and
(ii) Sections 5.09 and 5.11 of the 1974 Loan Agreement
are deleted, without prejudice to the obligations
of the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement.
(b) The amendments to the 1974 Loan Agreement set forth in
paragraph (a) of this Section shall likewise apply to the 1976
Loan Agreement in respect of any Section of the 1974 Loan Agree-
ment referred io in said paragraph and incorporated by reference
into the 1976 Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V1
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The REGIFERCAM Decree or any other legislation or regu-
lation of the Guarantor governing the establishment, organization
and powers of the Borrower shall, without the prior approval of
the Bank, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so as to materially and
adveri&ly affect the operations and financial condition of the
BorrcRer or the performance, by the Borrower of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement.
(b) The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement other than the
payment of principal, interest and other charges due thereunder.
A                                                                                              II________________I_____1______1_____1 _____   _____II________I__


﻿- 12 -
(c) The Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
(b) Any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may
require.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, other than fulfillment of the
conditions precedent to the Loan Agreement, have been met.
Section 7.02. The date October 22, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Regie Nationale des Chemins de
Fer du Cameroun
B.P. 304
Douala, Cameroun
Cable address:                     Telex:
REGIFERCAM                         5607 KN
Douala
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
REGIE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU CAMEROUN
By /s/ Michael T. Kima
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Loan and of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan and of the Credit        % of
Allocated (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and             18,600,000        80%
signalling, tele-
communications,
water supply and
electrical works,
including equip-
ment therefor
(under contracts)
(2) Railway materials            7,960,000        100% of foreign
and equipment                                expenditures and
(other than locomo-                          85% of local
tive spare parts,                            expenditures
ballast, rails and
-   sleepers), includ-
ing installation
thereof, and
furniture, equip-
ment and material
for training
(3) Locomotive spare               340,000        50% of foreign
parts                                        expenditures
(4) Consultants and              5,220,000        85%
experts' services
IHMi I  I Al A I  MI


﻿-15-
Amount of the
Loan and of the Credit        % of
Allocated (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Refunding of                 2,000,000
the 1976 Loan
(6) Unallocated                 12,880,000
TOTAL       47,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Guarantor is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Bank or the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:


﻿- 16 -
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $350,000 may be made in respect of Category (4) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after March 1, 1979; and
(b) for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) on account
of Part D of the Project, until the Borrower shall have furnished
to the Bank design and engineering plans for the facilities to
be constructed under said Part of the Project and a proposal for
the Borrower's future maintenance policy for motive power and
rolling stock which are satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree
and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account
except: (i) under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions; and (ii) under Cate-
gory (5).
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan and
of the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan and of the Credit
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the
case may be, which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank and the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement
or of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement,


﻿- 17 -
by notice to the Borrower and, in the case of action taken by
the Association, to the Guarantor, cancel such amount of the
Loan or of the Credit (as the case may be) as, in the Bank's or
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the capacity and the
efficiency of the Borrower's traffic handling facilities in the
Douala area; to provide the Borrower with adequate locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance facilities; to improve the efficiency of
the Borrower's management and operations; to provide locomotive
spare parts and railway equipment to the Borrower; and to improve
and expand the Borrower's training facilities, to reorganize the
Borrower's training department and to improve the Borrower's
training programs.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   New Douala Station
Construction of a new railway station in Douala, including:
(i) a marshalling yard with 2 sets of tracks for
freight traffic, a platform and surfaced areas for
cargo-handling, including required service sidings
and a rail bridge, and a warehouse and its service
tracks;
(ii) tracks and platforms for a passenger station, and a
set of tracks for servicing and parking passenger
coaches;
(iii) a public road connection to the freight station
and marshalling yard, internal service roads and
parking areas, and a road bridge to replace the
present level-crossing on the Douala-Yaounde road;
and
(iv) a wagon maintenance shed, service buildings and
fixed ins tallat ions, including in particular a
signalling system, and other related station
facilities, including water supply and telephone
and electrical installations.
Part B:   Railway Equipment
Provision of railway equipment, including:


﻿- 19 -
(i) track maintenance equipment (5 gang-cars with
trailer, 2. inspection cars, 1 test rail car, and
1 road/rail mechanical diesel shovel), and a fire
truck;
(ii) about' 50 turnouts, for renewal and service sidings,
and about 50 bogies for freight cars; and
(iii) locomotive spare parts.
Part C:   Douala Workshop
(i) Construction of workshop facilities in Douala,
including a storage building for major locomotive
spare parts and assemblies (about 1,250 m2), a
cleaning plant for locomotive bogies and heavy
spare parts, a workshop for maintenance and repair
of track maintenance machinery (about 810 m2),
a platform for -locomotive cleaning, a storage
buildin for spare parts and supplies (about
2,000 m ), an office for the administration of
railway stores (about 650 m2), a locomotive test
bench, expansion of the diesel locomotive workshop
(about 1,215 m2), drainage improvements and
expansion of the utility networks and service
tracks.
(ii) Construction of a service station with refueling
facilities (including a storage tank with a capa-
city of about 150 m3).
(iii) Provision of additional machine-tools, cleaning
equipment, lifting equipment and equipment for
the locomotive test bench (3.600 h.p.).
Part D:   Yaounde Locomotive Running Shed and Rolling Stock
Maintenance Facilities
Construction in Yaounde of:
(i) a complete locomotive running shed to perform the
running maintenance of all diesel locomotives
operating on the line of the "Transcamerounais";
and


﻿- 20 -
(ii) a workshop to perform routine checks and mainte-
nance of freight cars and passenger coaches, a
cleaning platform and the necessary access roads.
Part E:   Operations and Management Assistance
(i) Strengthening of the Borrower's financial and
management services.
(ii) Setting-up and initial operation of organization
and methods units in the technical departments of
the Borrower responsible for mechanical engineer-
ing, operations and permanent way.
(iii) Finalization of a manpower development plan of
the Borrower and improvement of the Borrower's
personnel management systems.
(iv) Technical studies required for Part D of the
Project.
(v) Feasibility and engineering studies required for a
subsequent second phase of the expansion of the
Borrower's workshops.
Part F:   Training
(i) Provision of furniture, equipment and materials
required for the Borrower's training activities.
(ii) Renovation of existing buildings and construction
of additional classrooms and offices required for
the Borrower's training activities.
(iii) Improvement of the efficiency of the organization,
the programs, the administration and the training
of management staff and instructors of the Bor-
rower's training activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March l and September 1
beginning    March 1, 1985
through   September 1, 1999                 900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollaf
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.35%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.10%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, and in addition to the re2quire-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender documents relating thereto a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity
to bid for the goods and civil works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or civil works remain to be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notification of diplomatic and trade representatives as
described in paragraph 1.2 of Part A of the Guidelines shall not
be required in respect of contracts for the construction of


﻿II
- 24 -
buildings under Parts A (iv) and C (ii) and for civil works under
Part F (ii) of the Project.
2.   Critical spare parts for locomotives may be purchased from
the original manufacturers, and the purchase of all other spare
parts for locomotives shall be based on price quotations from
such manufacturers and other established part manufacturers, all
subject to approval by the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) One original and one copy of the contract shall be tur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 25 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, one original and one copy of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
.or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting a material
extension of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
11F1


