CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 936 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Railway Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 23, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 936 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1979, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement referred to
in Recital (C) of this Preamble by extending the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Rggie Nationale des
Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (hereinafter called REGIFERCAM) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to REGIFERCAM the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) REGIFERCAM has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between
REGIFERCAM and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement),
the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to twenty seven million dollars
($27,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agree-
ment), the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the Loan and to
undertake certain obligations with respect to the Project;
(E) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing and of the other considerations set forth in
the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, but
only on condition that REGIFERCAM undertake the obligations set
forth in the Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions), namely, that paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term Project means the project for which
the Credit is granted, as described in the Loan Agree-
ment (as such term is defined in the Development Credit
Agreement) and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
REGIFERCAM (as such term is defined in the Development
Credit Agreement)."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and REGIFERCAM for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15,
1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement;
(b) "Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15,
1974, as made applicable to such agreement, and any agreement
supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement;


﻿-3-
(c) "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agree-
ment; and
(d)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and REGIFERCAM pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any schedule to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and REGIFERCAM, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the.goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
REGIFERCAM; provided, however, that for the purposes of this
Agreement: (i) all references in said Schedule to the Bank and the
Loan Account shall be deemed to be references to the Association
and the Credit Account, respectively; and (ii) all action taken,
including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant to the provisions
of said Schedule shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name
and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association and all infor-
mation furnished by REGIFERCAM to the Bank pursuant to such
provisions shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and
the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1989, and ending March 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, if REGIFERCAM shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its indebtedness under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall simultaneously repay a proportionate amount of the
Credit then outstanding. Any repayment pursuant to this Section
shall be applied to the repayment of a proportionate amount of
each maturity of the Credit then outstanding, unless the Borrower
shall specify, at the time of such repayment, other maturities of
the Credit to which such repayment should be applied.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause REGIFERCAM to perform in
accordance wi,h the provisions of the Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
REGIFERCAM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into


﻿-5-
between the Borrower and REGIFERCAh on terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association. Such terms and
conditions shall include, inter alia, that: (i) the proceeds of
the Credit shall be relent to REGIFERCAM for a term of twenty
years, including a grace period of five years, at an interest
rate of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum; (ii)
REGIFERCAM shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount so relent and not withdrawn by REGIFERCAM from
time to time; and (iii) the proceeds of the Credit so relent shall.
be used by REGIFERCAM for the purposes of the Project in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, and
all the provisions of Article III of the Loan Agreement regarding
the use of the proceeds of the Loan shall also be complied with
by REGIFERCAM in such use of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall perform in accordance with
the Guarantee Agreement all its obligations therein set forth.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in Section
6.01 of the Loan Agreement or in paragraphs (e), (h), (i) or (j)
of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of said Agreement shall occur.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement or in Section 7.01 (g) of the
General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of said Agreement
shall occur.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and REGIFERCAM; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, other than fulfillment of the conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have
been met.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
REGIFERCAM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and REGIFERCAM
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 22, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement -shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaounde, Cameroon
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINEP                               8268 KN or
Yaounde                             8203 KN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Michael T. Kima
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


