Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7354
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1816-TH)
Jutne 30, 1988
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a resbiuted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without Wodd Bank authoizaton.



ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC           Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT            Bank of Thailand
CAD            Cooperative Auditing Department
CPD            Cooperative Promotion Department
DAE            Department of Agricultural Extension
MOAC           Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NESDB          National Economic and Social De-slopment Board
OAE            Office of Agricultural Economics
OECF
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
OPS            Operations  Policy  Staff  (now Policy,  Planning and
Research)
PCB            Project Completion Report
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
RID            Royal Irrigation Department
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FO OFFCIAL USE ONL.Y
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20413
U.S.A.
Office d 0ivectS,wfat
Opatam  VAtMmin
June 30, 1988
M4EMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Thailand Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1816-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Performance Audit Report on Thailand Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 1816-TH)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
Yves Rovani
by Graham Donaldson
This document hs a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perofmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRWJECT
(LOAN 1816-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ...............................................            i
Basic Data Sheet ..................           .................. iii
Evaluation Sumnary ............... .. .... .....................   v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND .  .................             . .... 1
Objectives ........................................1
Context   ................................................. 1
Preparation and Design ..................... .... . .2
II.  THE PROJECT  .............          ......... ..................4
Components ***a*** .........      ...........  ...........  *4
Finance Plan ......................................6
Implementation Plan .............. 6
Project Implementation and Outcome ............ o.....7
Financial Performance of BAAC  ...................11
Rates of Return                ....... ................................ 11
III. FINDINGS, ISSUES AND LESSONS
Findings and Issues .... *...............   ... . 12
Lessons ...................................15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OVERVIEW ........... so ........ ..... 19
PROJECT C64.MLETION REPORT SECTION ON THE
COOPERATTYE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
(prepared by the World Bank) .............. o ............   27
Appendices:
1. Comparative Balance Sheets .................... 33
2. Comparative Income Statements .................34
3. Income and Expenses as a Percent of Average
Total Assets                       *so............*35
4. Reallocation of Loan Proceeds between
Categories ............ .o..*. ..             ... 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents, cont.
Pane No.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (rrepared by BMAC)
I.   BACKGROUND    ............................ .. .
II.   FORMULATION ....................... 40
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ... .........43
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ...........
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                ...55
VI.   CONCLUSIONS .6                ......... 63
Tables 1 - 16 ........6...............68
Addendum to the Project Completion Report ..............87
Tables Al - A5                                   2 ....92
Mao IBRD 14506R1



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN 1816-TH
PREFACE
This  is  a   Project   Performance   Audit  Report  for  the
Agricultural Credit Project in Thailand, for which Loan 1816-TH in the
amount of US$19.0 million was approved in March 1980. The Loan was
closed on June 30, 1985, six months behind the original schedule, with
the  final  disbursement  on  July  17,  1985.    The  Loan was fully
disbursed.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), a Project Completion
Report tPCR) prepared by the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) on the on-lending component and related training,
together with a further PCR section on the cooperative technical
assistance component and an Overview both prepared by Bank staff.
An 3ED mission visited Thailand in March 1988. The mission
held discucsions with officials from BMC, the Cooperative Promotion
Department, the Cooperative Audit Department and the Office of
Agricultural Ec5nomics. A field trip was made to the North where a
branch was visited and selected borrowers and BMC staff were
interviewed in the field.
The audit memorandum is based on this mission and discussions
and interviews with Bank staff associated with the project, reviews of
the PCR and Overview, the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2704-TH dated
February 15, 1980), the Loan Agreement dated April 30, 1980 and of
correspondence and other internal papers on Bank files.
Drafts of the PCR Overview and section on the cooperative
technical assistance component were left with BMC by the mission and
the draft Project Performance Audit Report was sent to the Borrower's
agencies for comment on May 23, 1988, but none were received.
Comments received from the Asia regional office have been taken into
account.
The audit finds the PCR documents comprehensive and accurate
with respect to the project's achievements and shortcomings, but takes
a somewhat broader view, relating mainly to the intended role of this
project as the first of a series to assist the cooperative credit



- .'i -
system, '-. reviewing the overall results of the experience. The audit
memorandum highlights issues relating to the financial policy context
of the project and operational responsibility for the project.
The valuable assistance provided by BAAC, CAD, CPD, and OAE
is gratefully acknowledged.



- lII -
PROJECT PERFORiANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 1i16-TN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as X of
Estimate   Estimated Actual  Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS millions               3B.0            44.0              116
Loan Amount (USS million)                       19.0           19.0             1i0
Date Physical Component. Comploted             8/3/804       12/31/84
Financial Rate of Roturn (X)                     26          19.5-24.2
Institutional Performance                                  Satisfactory
First Mention In Filoe                                       U4/75 /
Negotiations                                                01/14-21/86
Date of Board Approval                                       03/20/80
Date of Loan Signing                                         04/3B/8U
Date of Loan Effectiveness                                   09/92/8S
Closing Data                                  12/31/84       86/30/85
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY81   FY62  FY83   FY84  FY85   FY86
Appralsal Estimate                1.2    6.2   11.7   17.7   19.0    19.6
Actual                            1.2    8.6   15.6  17.4   16.97   19.0
Actual as X of Esttmate          le    169    133      96    99.8    100
Oata of Final Disbursement                     July 17, 1906
Principal Rsp7i> to 03/31/SI                   US32.56 million
STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
FY75  FY76  FY77  FY76  FY79  FY80  FY61  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY6S  FY60  TOTAL
Pr.-
appralsal   0.9   1.2  18.5  65.6 133.6                                              21f.7
Appraisal                            71.O 23.3                                         94.3
Negotl atlo                                24.3                                        24.8
Supervision                                14.3  16.5  11.4   4.3   Z.9   7.6    8.4  69.3
other                                 0.5   0.4   6.7   1.4   2.6          0.8         11.8
Total        6.9   1.2  16.5  65.6 205.0  62.3  21.2  12.6   6.6   3.9   8.3    3.4 409.9



-iv-
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                    Kingdom of Thailand
Executing Agency                          BAAC, CPD, CAD and OAE
Fiscal Year of Borrower                  October 1 - September 30
Fiscal Year of BAAC                         April 1 - March 81
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                  Baht (B)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisa  Year Average                     US11.00 a B 20.0
Intervening Years Average                  US81.00 a B 22.2
Completion Year Avorage                    USS1.00   B 8 23.3
Follow-on Project:
Name                              Second Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number                                     2310-TFi
Loan Amount (USS million)                        70.0
Date of Board Aparoval                         O6/09/83
MISSION OITA
Date    No. of    Man-weeks Specializations    Per*ormance               Typee of
Mission    tNo./Yr.) Persons   In Field   ReprosontOd /b        Rating /c  Trond /d  Problems /-
Identification  06/77       4           14.3    C,E,A
Preparation  01/7643/79    7            29.0    C,E,A
Appraisal    98/79,66/79    5           22.9    C,E,F,A,M
Supervision 1   065/80      1            8.4    C                    1            1         0
11/se       1           2.7    T
Supervision 2   02/81        8           5.1    E,C,F                2            2         0
Supervisitn 8   09/81       4           18.1    E,F,T,Eng.           2            2         O,T
Supervision 4   62/62       ?            7.7   E,F,T                 2            2         0
Supervision 5   11/62       a            4.7    E,F,T                2            2         F,O
Supervision 0   0t/78        1           2.7    F                    2            1         F
Supervision 7   01/U4        1           1.1    F                    2            1         F
04/84       1           0.0    T
Supervision 8   11/84        1           6.7    F                    2            1         F
12/64       1           0.8    T
Compl-tion      11865       1            0.7    F
Total                      21           42.8
La   Rtfers  to  correvpondence  fil-  series, although  project was  first
Identified In 1966.
Lb   AWAgrulturaliat;  CWAgricultural   Credit  Spcialist;  E=Economiat;
EnguEnginser; F=FinancTal Analyst; MaManagement Specialist; TsTraining
Speciallet.
e   laproblem-froe  or mLer  problemn;  2amoderato  problem; and SBmajor
problem.
&4  laimproving; 2ustationory; and 8sdeterTorating.
Le FuFRnancial; TaTechnical; and OnOther.



- v -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN 1816-TB
EVALUATIOV. SUMMARY
Introduction. Obiectives and Proiect Design
The project was the first Bank-financed agricultural credit
project in Thailand.  The  project was  intended  as a first phase of
assistance  to  help  the   Bank   for  Agriculture  and  Agricultural
Cooperatives  (BAAC)  develop   effectively   as   an  apex  bank  for
cooperatives and  to  generally  expand  BAAC's  ongoing  term lending
program, with special emphasis  on  small  farmers in the poorer North
and Northeast prov aces.   Funds  were  made available through BAAC to
individual farmer borrowers and agricultural cooperatives for medium
and long-term  credit.    Three  categories  of  lending for specified
components were  identified:    (a)  on-farm  development;  (b) shrimp
culture; and (c) pilot oil palm development. A fourth, non-specified
lending category was for other types of lending to be identified. A
cooperative  development  component   was   designed   to  assist  the
Government's program to improve cooperatives so that more of them
could qualify for BAAC credit.   Technical assistance and training was
provided for BAMC, Government cooperative agencies and cooperatives,
staff. Three studies were to be completedt replanting of three oil
palm settlement schemes; a review of the oil palm sector; and
ide.itification of a supporting system for lending to small farmers.
Implementation Experience and Results
From early in the implementation period the three appraised
components experienced difficulties such that lending emphasis was
soon switched towards the i.on-specified term lending category for the
North and Northeast.   Problems  with the specified components related
to land tenure, beneficiary interest, technical feasibility, costs and
delayed studies. Hence only 92 of the on-farm development program was
complezed, only 42 of the shrimp culture loans proposed at appraisal
3ete made and no loans were made for oil palm development.
In contrast, lending to small farmers in the North and
Northeast went ahead successfully with the Bank agreeing to reallocate
saved funds to this category.    Some 58,685 subloans were financed by
BAAC branches with a total of US$28 million equivalent being disbursed



- vi -
to  individual  farmers.    Loans  were  primarily  for  livestock and
fisheries (562), followed by farmland developmer.t and buildings (302)
and farm equipment (142).   Purchase  of draft animals was the biggest
single item at 402 of the total loan funds. About three-quarters ef
the loans by amount was used to promote rice production. The eventual
commitment of most of the Bank funds to poor small farmers in the
North and Northeast allowed the project to greatly exceed its equity
and social objectives. In the process, the project contributed to the
expansion and strengthening of BAAC's ongoing term lending program as
intended, with the emphasis on small farmers.
The cost of the lending component was some 482 higher than
the appraisal estimate when measured in Baht, but an increase of only
162 in U.S. dollar terms, all of which was borne by BAMC.
The technical assistance and training components for '-'
BAAC and cooperative development were generally successful, exceeding
most of their appraisal targets. The technical assistance provided to
BAAC and CPD was highly re,arded by these agencies.
The cooperative restructuring program was less successful
than expected. The target of 400 participating cooperatives was met,
but evaluation in 1985 indicated that upgrading results were mixed.
Also, cooperatives were handicapped by shortage of capital. BAMC
apparently preferred lending to individual borrowers where interest
rates were higher and repayment better, such that its cooperative
lending during the period was stable and the number of cooperatives
borrowing increased only marginally.
The average economic rate of return in the SAR of 35X could
not be reestimated for the different mix of many types of small farmer
lending because of inadequate data, but the financial rates of return
on individual subprojects were recalculated during supervision as
ranging between 19.5X and 242.
Sustainability
During the project, BAAC was able to reduce its dependence on
financial subsidies when the Government approved increasing its
lending rate by 2 percentage points, from 12 to 14%. The arrears
situation was well managed and reasonable, at a quarter to a third of
outstanding principal amounts, given BAMC's mandate as a development
institution focussing especially on small farmers.
Findings
The audit fotnd that although the project was intendee as the
first phase of assistance to the cooperative movement to develop it as
a credit channel for BAAC lending, this objective was not achieved



- vii -
(and indeed thie cooperatives do not figure in the follow-on project).
The project was successful, however, in supporting the expansion of
BMAC's ongoing term lending program, especially for small farmers in
the poor North and Northeast provinces. Preparation and appraisal of
the three specified on-lending components proved to be deficient in
major respects and most of the funds for these components were
reallocated to the non-specified category. The training and technical
assistance provided both to BMAC and the cooperative agencies and
cooperatives themselves was greatly appreciated by these agencies and
generally effective, although without any follow-up from the Bank for
the  cooperatives.    Sustainability   of  these  investments  in  the
cooperative movement has relied upon other donors.
The main lesson identified by the audit concerns the need to
analyze the financial sector properly and place such agricultural
credit operations in that context, rather than allowing the focus to
be too much on on-lending  components.    The audit suggests that auch
first credit operations in the rural sector, which should have a broad
perspective, may not be managed adequately by agricultural technical
divisions  in  the  absence   of  concurrent  operational  support  on
Institutional and broader financial issues, as appears to have been
the case in this instance.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN 1816-TH
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Objectives
1.       The primary objective of the  project  was to expand the term
lending capacity of BAAC and to revive and strengthen the cooperative
system to channel project credit and other services to farmers. The
project was intended as the first phase of a long-term strategy to
assist BAMC to function effectively as an apex bank for cooperatives,
this being the primary :ole for BAMC under a Government program to
revitalizo the cooperative system. The project explicitly recognized,
however, that until more cooperatives were upgraded to the point where
they qualified for BAMC loans, through the reconstruction program,
lending under the first phase would be mainly to individual farmer3.
Small farmers were to receive special attention under the project.
2.       The specific objectives of this first phase project were to:
(a) provide funds through BAAC for medium and long-term
lending;
(b) assist the strengthening of credit institutions (i.e.,
cooperatives,   farmers'   associations--as   they   are
incorporated into the new cooperative system--and B MC)
and the Government agencies supervising the cooperative
system (i.e., CPD and CAD); and
(c) integrate credit with other support services both for
selection   of   subprojects   and   implementation   of
investment plans approved by BAAC.
Context
3.       Agriculture  accounted  for  about  30S  of  Thailand's  GDP,
employed about three-fourths of the labor force on a full-time or
part-time basis and produced about 60% of total exports. From 1960
through to the late 1970s the sector grew at 4.9Z in real terms and
was the mainspring of  economic  growth.   Growth, however, was mainly
from expansion of the cultivated area at the rate of about 42 per year
with irrigation development and diversification of cash crops also
contributing. Both yields and cropping intensities had stagnated at
low levels.   In  the  late  1970s  the  agricultural  growth rate was
declining as expansion  potential  diminished.    Consequently, it was



- 2 -
necessary to intensify and improve yields if the agricultural sector
was to continue to provide the necessary lead in economic growth.
There were also significant disparities in regional farm incomes, with
families being relatively poor on the two-thirds of total farms in the
North and Northeast Provinces.
4.       At that time as part of a strategy to provide more assistance
to small farmers, especially in these poorer areas, the Government
embarked on a program to revitalize the old farmers' associations and
cooperatives as a means of providing services and credit to large
numbers of  small  farmers.    BAAC  was  to  be  the  main  source of
institutional credit for small farmers through these cooperatives,
with the commercial banks, in response to Government directive,
providing increasing amounts of secured credit to the more prosperous
farmers.
5.       The  Bank  had   been   discussing   the  possibility  of  an
agricultural credit  project  with  the  Government  and  BMC  for an
unusually long period since identification in 1968, before proceeding
with preparation in 1977. In the early 1970s it was BAAC policy not
to borrow foreign funds, there being adequate domestic resources. At
that time the Bank's interest rate was higher than the cost of such
domestic funds. From the mid-1970s this policy changed and bilateral
loans were obtained at low interest from OECF (Japan) and USAID.
BMC's management then decided that if Bank funds were blended with
low-cost bilateral funds a reasonable margin to cover lending costs
could be achieved. Also, the  Government  and BAAC saw a role f.r the
Bank in the planned revival of the cooperative system to prcvide a
wholesale credit channel as a means of BAAC expanding lending to large
numbers of the predominant small farmers, especially medium and long-
term lending where there was great unsatisfied demand.
Preparation and Design
6.       BAAC prepared the project  with assistance from visiting Bank
and FAOICP staff, and occasional oversight from the Bank's resident
mission.
7.       Once preparation began in earnest after the mid-1977 mission,
there was a protracted period of activity involving several BAAC
staff, visiting missions from FAO/CP and the Bank, and progress
reviews in between by Bank staff from the resident mission. Despite
these inputs and interactions, the preparation ran on until March
1979, almost two years.   Even  so,  the  Bank  was not happy with the
output  of  the  FAO/CP  work,   particularly  its  lack  of  regional
distribution, focussing as it did on proposals for five subprojects in
the Central and Southern provinces.
8.       There were no proposals for  the North or Northeast where the
bulk of poor farmers lived. It was decided to proceed with appraisal,
however, in order to 'get involved with BAAC and concentrate on the



-3-
institu-ional aspects.' In the event, it was agreed at appraisal that
the regional balance (and equity) issue should be handled by a 'non-
specified category' which would provide BAAC the flexibility to
respond to new credit  demands.    (Given  the virtual collapse of the
specified  lending  components,   this  flexibility  very  fortunately
provided room to use most of the Bank funds for smallholders in the
North and Northeast.)
9.       Another notable feature of the identification and preparation
period was that the original intention of including commercial banks
in the project was soon dropped, leaving the project design very
conventionally (at the time) focussing on channelling funds through a
single  parastatal  agricultural  credit   institution.    While  this
simplified the operation, it also facilitated not ha-ring to resolve
up-front' some of the wider institutional and financial issues
relating to the credit  subsector  (which problems may have encouraged
the decision to drop the commercial banks).
10.      The files reveal uncertainty  throughout the project cycle as
to what were the principal objectives of the Bank's involvement:
financial sector  d&velopment,  institutional  derelopment  or funding
subprojects (i.e., resource transfers).   Partly this may be explained
by the parentage of the operation changing in the Bank several times
as the operational divisions were reorganized and work reassigned. In
the mid- 1970s the emphasis from the Development Finance Company (DFC)
division's perspective was whether BMAC could be brought to a suitable
state of institutional rectitude to justify a Bank loan. When the
operation became the responsibility of the newly created Rural Credit
Division, it became the 'proposed Rural Credit Project," with the
prime focus apparently on subproject identification and preparation
(witness the FAOICP output).   At  this time, however, there is little
indication that the change in title, from the original "Agricultural
Credit Project," was significant, althouzgh by current practice 'rural'
might  signify  a   broader   approach   than merely  on-lending  for
agricultural production. Lastly, when the project was transferred to
the   General  Agriculture   Division   it   resumed   its   original
"agricultural" title, with the emphasis remaining on the production
subcomponents.l/
1/   Interestingly, the follow-on  second  project ostensibly takes up
the rural financial market challenge (although the only relevant
component is a study of lendina policies and criteria for small
farmers--with nothing on resource mobilization or other rural
credit needs) and in the process revises the purpose of the
Ban'ks long-term involvement to read that it is to "improve the
functioning of rural financial markets."



- 4 -
II. THE PROJECT
Components
11.      Support for BAMC included funds  for its ongoing term lending
operation which financed investments by both individual farmers and
cooperatives. Over half of lending (642) was targetted for three
subloan  categories  in  the   Central   and  Southern  regions  (land
consolidation, shrimp culture and oil palm). A non-specified category
was included to allow BAAC to respond to regional imbalances by
increasing its lending in the North and Northeast (for purposes not
identified at  appraisal).    Technical  assistance  and  training was
provided for BAMC, CPD and CAD, and three studies were to be
completed.
12.      Project component details were as follows:
(a) Lending Components
(i)  On-Farm Development.   Finance  for improvements on
11,200 ha of paddy fields on 4,000 farms in Central
Thailand. Loans would be made to farmers' groups
formed for the purpose.
(ii)  Shrimp Culture.   Financing  of  225 shrimp farmers
with about 5 ha each in two settlement schemes
covering 1,080 ha in the Southern region.
(iii)  Oil Palm  Development.    Long-term  loanLs  for the
development of 350 ha of oil palm in the South.
(iv)  Non-specified Lending  CateRories.    To be carried
out with emphasis on lending in the Northern and
Northeastern regions, including fresh fish culture,
new village development programs, backyard dairy
development, shallow and deep well irrigation,
rubber planting, orchard development and other farm
plans to be  identified  by  BMAC.   By definition,
this component focussed on smallholderb, since they
are predominant in the North and Northeast.2/
2/   The project also provided  that  not  less  than half of all Loan
funds should go to small farmers, but the definition of small
farmers adopted (those whose farms were below the average size
for their province) was unusual and could have had the peculiar
effect of disqualifying smallholders (in intensively settled
provinces) whose holdings were still small but above the average
size, while allowing larger sized farms to benefit in provinces
with larger average holding sizes.   For the second project, this
issue was resolved with a conventional net farm income criterion.



(b) Proiect Technical Assistance Components
(A)  Technical Assistance  to  BAAC.    Financing of 108
man-months of consultants and 135 man-months of
overseas  staff  training   to  assist  institution
building in  BAMC.    Also,  an  additio.ial 18 man-
months  of  short-term   consultants   were  to  be
provided for special assignments.
(ii)  Cooperative Training Program.    The project was to
provide  for  an   intensive  training  program  to
strengthen   the   cooperative   system,  including
training for senior staff of cooperatives, officers
of CPD and auditors of CAD. Forty-eight man-years
of  consultants'  services   were  to  assist  this
training.  Housing  for  40  regional CPD staff and
funding of three  additional mobile financing units
was provided.
(iii)  Restructuring   of   Cooperatives.       Under  this
restructuring plan an evaluation team of staff from
CPD, CAD and BAAC, assisted by a consultant, would
establish operational procedures for evaluation,
train members of field evaluation teams and review
the proposed restructuring plan.
(iv) Improvement of the Auditing System. In support of
the  Government   program   to  expand  cooperative
auditing capacity, the  project  was to finance 290
additional  auditors,  with   establishment  of  50
provincial offices and construction of 50 houses
for relocated staff.
(v)  Oil  Palm  Subsector  Master  Plan  and  Settlement
Schemes Preinvestment Plan.    The project provided
eight  man-months  of   consultants  to  prepare  a
comprehensive  plan   for   the   three   oil  palm
settlement  schemes   (which   had  been  developed
without proper planning), and to conduct a sector
review to formulate a master development plan for
the oil palm sector in the South. (The description
of this study in the Loan Agreement--simply a
"review'--is not an adequate expression of the
intent in the SAR.)    CPD was responsible for Lhe
first study and OAE for the second.
(vi) Study of Supporting Systems for Lending to Small
Farmers. This study was intended to assist the
Government  to  establish   a  suitable  supporting
system  to  reduce  the   risk   to  BAAC  and  the



- 6 -
commercial banks of lending to small farmers. The
first phase of this study was to "establish a
definition  of  small   farmers"--an  issue  during
processing  of   the   project--although  the  Loan
Agreement failed to reflect this important intent.
Finance Plan
13.      The Bank Loan of US$19 million  was to finance 542 of project
costs, equivalen.. to the estimated fort c,n exchange cost. Funds for
the lending component and for technical assistance to BMC were to be
on-lent directly to BAAC by the Government at the same interest rate
as the Bank Loan. The Government assumed the foreign exchange risk.3/
BMC's contribution of US$6.8 million equivalent (a quarter of lending
component  costs)  was  to   come  from  internally  generated  funds.
Government's contribution of US$7.3 million equivalent was to finance
the  training  programs  of  the  line  agencies  and  other technical
assistance  through   normal   budgetary   allocations.    Retroactive
financing  of  up  to   US$600,000   was  approved  to  cover  on-farm
development during the 1980 dry season. There was no cofinancing.
Implementation Plan
14.      The  Government  designated  the  Long-Term  Credit  Advisory
Committee on Agricultural Credit to be responsible for coordinating
all project activities. Task forces were to be established by this
committee, in particular to integrate credit with other support
services.
15.      BAAC was responsible  for  implementing the lending component
in coordination with other Government agencies who were to provide
technical assistance to farmers.
16.      Subloans were to be  made  directly to individual farmers and
to  members  of  qualified   cooperatives,  although  given  the  poor
financial condition of many cooperatives the main initial lending was
to  be  directly  to  individuals.    Meanwhile,  BAAC  was  to assist
cooperatives to improve and develop their lending capability, starting
on a pilot basis in the four provinces in the North and Northeast.
Some of the subloan categories were already identified at appraisal
and the other non-specified ones were to be identified and appraised
by BAAC for approval by the Bank before financing. Lending rates,
maturities, limits on lending and collateral requirements were agreed
during negotiations.    BAAC  w'ts  to  lend  to  individual farmers at
interest rates of 12-182 and to cooperatives and farmers' associations
at 12X1, whereas the average cost of BAAC funds was projected to be
close to 112.    BMC  was  to  submit  to  the  Bank  annually a loan
portfolio evaluation on the status and causes of arrears and plans for
restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition.
3/   In the follow-on project,  the Second Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 2310-TH), BMC took the foreign exchange risk and this had
led to considerable losses for which provision had not been made.



-7-
17.      Training responsibilities were  assigned  to CPD for farmers,
cooperative staff and CPD offices, and to CAD for its auditors.
Consultants were to assist both CPD and CAD in managing their training
programs. Consultants were also provided for a period of three years
to assist CPD's head office and four local consultants were to assist
management at  CPD's  head  office.    In  addition, consultants would
assist both  CPD  and  CAD  for  three  years  in  conducting separate
training programs for their own staff.
18.      The Office cf Agricultural  Economics  (OAE) was responsible
for carrying out two reviews: first, a review of the oil palm sector,
for which OAE would organize a working group with representatives from
concerned agencies, and secondly, a study of supporting systems for
lending to small farmers.   To  track the program for revitalizing the
cooperatives, CPD training and evaluation consultants were to prepare
a proposal for monitoring the cooperative system. Also, BAAC was to
design a management information system for discussion with the Bank
and undertake a review of the scope for computers in BMAC's work.
(The deficiencies of the Loan Agreeaent in not adequately reflecting
the intent of the SAR, have already been noted above in two cases.
Furthermore, these last three important items of work for CPD and MAC
were not covered by the Loan Agreement.)
19.      The main special conditions of the Loan were:
(a) BAAC was to use its best efforts to ensure that not less
than half of the Loan proceeds were used to finance
subloans to small farmers;
(b)  model farm plans were  to  be  submitted  by BMC to the
Bank for approval prior to lending for any new category;4/
and
(c) BAAC would annually furnish the Bank a review of the
loan portfolio status and causes of arrears and plans
for  restructuring   cooperatives   in   poor  financial
condition.
Prolect Implementation and Outcome
(i) BMC On-lending Component
20.      From  early  on  in  the  implementation  period  the  three
appraised components (on-farm development, shrimp culture and oil palm
4/   The SAR is ambivalent on this point, referring both to new credit
programs requiring prior approval of the Bank (a w{der concept)
or farm plans, whereas the Loan Agreement refers only to model
farm plans.



development) experienced major difficulties such that lending emphasis
was soon switched towards the non-specified termi lending category.
21.      On-farm development proved to be  very slow due to difficulty
in obtaining unanimous agreement from all farmers in any scheme (this
should have been seen as a problem at appraisal) and higher than
expected costs. The limited time available for on-farm davelopment
work each year and the detailed documentation required by the Bank for
approval were  also  problems  identified   by  BAAC  in  their  PCR.
Furthermore, this component was in direct competition with similar
schemes being implemented by the Royal Irrigation Department with
subsidies of ur to half costs. Consequently, only 346 loans were made
compared with 4,000 pLojected at appraisal, a shortfall of 91Z.
22.      In the case  of  shrimp  culture  there  was  general lack of
interest  from  landowners  (and   even  "conflicts  with  influential
landowners"--PCR) and squatter problems at one scheme, such that 10
loans were made instead of the 225 expected at appraisal, a shortfall
of 96%.
23.      No loans were made  for  oil  Palm development, compared with
220 expected at appraisal, because of delays in the appointment of
consultants  and  completion  of   the   feasibility  study  for  this
component. This may have been a relief to BMC since there were
considerable doubts at the time about the technical soundness of the
oil palm schemes. In particular, the planting material was unproven
in Thailand (much of its was informally acquired from Malaysia) and
the  production  projections  in  the   early  farm  plans  were  very
optimistic.
24.      'ence, although it wgs intended at appraisal that the bulk of
Bank funds would go towards these three appraised types of schemes, in
fact 94% of the Loan was used for BAAC's ongoing term lending program
in the North and  Northeast.    With  the  Bank agreeing to reallocate
saved funds to the non-specified category, this category disbursed
four times the funds proposed at appraisal, raising its share of Bank
on-lending funds to 96%.
25.      Under  the  non-specified   lending   component  some  58,685
subloans were identified and financed by BAAC branches in the North
and Northeast, with a total of US$28 million e^,aivalent being
disbursed to  individual  clients.    These  loans were primarily for
livestock and fisheries (56%), followed by farmland development and
buildings (30Z) and farm equipment (14X) (PCR, Table 4). Purchase of
draft animals was the biggest single item at 40% of the total loan
funds. Average loan sizes were US$555 and US$401 equivalent in the
North and Northeast,  respectively.    Three-quarters  of the loans by
amount was used to promote rice production, while 17% was used to
purrhase breeding  animals.    Minor  enterprises included vegetables,
maiz,, tobacco and fruit trees.



26.      The changed mix of the  term lending program is attributed in
the PCR Overview to the decision to shift emphasis away from the more
prosperous central plains of Thailand in favor of the North and
Northeast regions, and the fall in the world market price of rice
which at the same time reduced credit demand in the central rice
areas.5/ The audit, however, notes an alternative rationalization of
the  changes,  namely  that  in   the  absence  of  viable  on-lending
opportunities through the 'appraised" subcomponents, the allocation of
these released funds to the North and Northeast was -.t so much in
response to expanding demand there, but reflects the obvious and only
alternative immediately available for disbursing Bank funds.
27.      Although  the  physical  on-lending  objectives  set  out  at
appraisal were proven to be largely inappropriate, the eventual
commitment of most of the Bank funds to poor small farmers in the
North and Northeast allowed the project to greatly exceed its equity
and social objectives. :n the process the project contributed to the
strengthening of BAAC's ongoing term lending program as intended, with
emphasis on small farmers.61
28.      The PCR states that the  problems of the specified components
were 'underestimated during appraisal." The audit notes, furthermore,
that for each of the 'appraised' components, the nature of the.
constraining factors suggests that the preparation and appraisal of
these subcomponents was seriously deficient, including that the state
of preparation of the subcomponents (especially oil palm) was not
adequate for full appraisal.   It  is  surprising that basic errors of
design, beneficiary interest and technical soundness should have
appeared later given the long and intensive preparation period.
(ii) BAAC Training Component
29.      The technical assistance component  of  the  Loan was used by
BAAC to augment its staff training and development program. Six BAAC
middle level officers undertook overseas training on fellowships,
mainly in the  Philippines.    In  addition,  12 middle level officers
visited agricultural credit institutions within the Southeast Asia
region and the PCR reports that certain modifications and improvements
to BAMC's systems have directly resulted from these visits. Loan
funds were used also for staff visits to Indonesia, West Germany and
the Netherlands.
5/   This is at odds with  three-quarters  of the funds going for rice
production under the non-specified category.
61   Sixty percent of loans went to  'small farmersu as defined by the
project (less than the average size of holding in a province),
but by most standards nearly all farmers in the North and
Northeast are poor.



- 10 -
30.      Two consultants were employed  by  BAAC on a long-term basis.
The first worked with the Planning Department and was responsible for
upgrading a number of aspects of the Department's work. The second
consultant  was  responsible  for   organizing  tne  training  program
described above as well as BAAC's in-service training. The audit
notes that BAAC senior manageis expressed satisfaction with the
contribution made by both these consultants.
(iii) Cooperative Development Component
(a) CPD, CAD and Cooperative Staff Training
31.      The section of the PCR  on the technical assistance component
(for cooperative development) prepared by Bank staff, records that
this component exceeded virtually all of its quantitative targets
(Table 1 of that PCR section) and achieved much success in qualitative
terms . Bank funds were used as planned for technical assistance
personnel, civil works, vehicles, training materials and equipment.
Although the funds were inadequate to complete fully the construction
and equipment of the four training centers, funds were found from
CPD's own resources and later from a bilateral donor.
32.      Reservations were expressed, and are  shared by the audit, on
the sustainability of training programs, especially for senior staff
at headquarters and the ability of restructured cooperatives to
survive when management  subsidies  are withdrawn.   The reference to
sustainability of training for senior staff refers to there no longer
being external technical assistance staff available to run these
programs, although some training assistance is now provided from
bilateral sources and UNDP.   CPD  advised  the audit mission that the
di6continuity  in  their   support,  which  threatens  sustainability,
resulted in part from their not being involved in the Second
Agricultural Credit Project assisted by the Bank.
(b) Cooperative Restructuring Program
33.      The main  objective  of  this  component  was  to upgrade the
management of cooperatives with respect especially to purchasing,
marketing, credit,  and  planning  and  budgeting.   The participation
target of restructuring and management upgrading of 400 cooperatives
in  poor  financial   condition   was   met,   although  results  were
disappointing. A joint evaluation by the agencies involved in 1985
indicated that of the 400 Class 3 cooperatives in the program, 6 were
upgraded to Class 1 and 227 to Class 2, with 163 (41.) remaining in
Class 3.    Thai  staff  commented  that  the  program was handicapped
somewhat by shortage of capital to enable the cooperatives to expand,
despite the savings program (the deposit rate having been raised from
7.5Z to 101). In effect, the program was described as "unbalanced'
since restructuring and management training needed to be supported by
additional funding, if full benefits were to be realized. With
lending interest rates at 12-1/22 for individual loans compared with



- 11 -
9-1122 for cooperative loans, it was surmised that BAAC preferred
lending to individual farmers rather than cooperatives (repayment
rates  by  cooperatives  were  also  lower).    Tn  fact,  despite the
objective of developing the cooperative system as a lending channel to
small farmers, the proportion of BAAC's cooperative lending declined
during the project period. It was also noted that at the end of the
project  implementation  period  there   was  a  continuing  need  for
technical assistance for the restructuring program, but this was not
available.
(iv) Studies
34.      There were delays recruiting consultants for the two oi1 palm
studies which cortributed to the oil palm component being dropped from
the  financing  p-:zn.    It  is  unclear  whether  these  studies were
completed and what contribution they made.   The small farmer support
system study was also delaycd (such that BAAC had to proceed before
the first phase on defining small farmers was completed) and at the
time of the audit mission (March 1988) the whole study was awaiting
release by OAE management.
Financial Performance of BAMC
35.      The PCR Overview (paras. 10 and 11) comments on the financial
condition of BAAC remaining sound during the project period and the
accounts confirm this judgement. During the project BAMC was able to
reduce its dependence on financial subsidies when the Government
approved increasing its lending rate by two percentage points, from 12
to  142.    (BAAC's  viability  and  need  for  subsid ies  because  of
controlled interest rates was an issue throughout and is discussed
further bele.#.) The average cost of funds to BAAC (with Bank funds
pooled with those from other sources) was estimated to be 11.
36.      The arrears situation was  well  managed and reasonable, at a
qvarte to a third of outstanding principal amounts, given BAAC's
riu-idate as a  development  institution  focussing  especially on small
£armers.7/ In terms of  project  cost,  the lending component was some
481 higher than the appraisal estimate when measured in Baht, but an
increase of only 16% in US dollar terms, all of which was borne by
BAAC.
Rates of Return
37.      The average economic rate of  return  in the SAR of 35Z could
not be reestimated for the different mix of many types of small farmer
lending because of inadequate data, but the financial rates of return
on individual subprojects were recalculated during supervision as
ranging between 19.52 to 241.   The  audit has no cause to doubt these
estimates.
7/  More recently the arrcars position has improved further.



- 12 -
III. FINDINGS. ISSUES AND LESSONS
Findinas and Issues
38.      In making judgements  about  the  results  and  impact of the
project, the audit takes a broader view than that adopted by the PCR.
The project was seen and presented at the time as the first stage of a
credit strategy to assist farmers through the cooperative movement.
Specifically the project was intended to be the beginning of a longer
term relationship with BAAC with the stated purpose, in the SAR, of
supporting BMC to change from a passive provider of funds to a
development institution in support of the cooperative movement. As
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report:
"The project would be the first phase in assisting BMC to
function effectively as an apex bank for cooperatives; the
primary role of BAAC emphasized under the new cooperative
system is to increase the effectiveness of cooperatives as
conduits for providing credit to small farmers.'
It was noted, however, that in this first project BMC would on-lend
mainly to Individual farmers because most cooperatives were not
qualified to borrow from  BMC.  The parallel cooperative development
component was designed to assist more cooperatives to qualify for
funding through restructuring and management upgrading.
39.      Given that the project was  first identified in 1968 and that
discussions continued intermittently with BAAC through the mid-1970s,
and were followed by an extended period of detailed preparation, it is
surprising that the files and project documents contain little
material analyzing the financial  sector.    There is little available
rationalizing the project approach and the Bank's involvement. The
cenzers of attention during preparation and processing in the ..ank
were the specified subprojects for financing and the arrangements for
training and techaical assistance components.    In the event, much of
this detailed work on sub-components proved flawed, in large part (for
the  shrimp  farming   and   land  consolidation  components)  because
inadequate atteation was paid to  beneficiary  views.  In the case of
the oil palmi subcomponent, feasibility work had not progressed
sufficiently to allow appraisal or financing under the project.
40.      In  the  audit's  opinion,  the  consequence  of  inadequate
attention to the broader financial and organizational setting of the
Bank's intervention contributed to reduced impact (in rural financial
market terms). The core of the original strategy--namely BAAC as a
credit wholesaler to the cooperative system--was soon abandoned. The
operation became a straightforward line of credit approach with BMAC
on-lending Bank funds directly to individual farmers. (Recent data in
the BMC Annual Report for 1986 shows that its lendLng to the
ce-operative system stabilized during the project period at a slightly
higher level than formezly and bas remained at that level, while the



- 13 -
proportion of cooperative lending has halved as a percentage of total
BMAC lending.)81
41.      Another feature of the  project  is  absence in the documents
and files of reference to the debate at the time on the merlts of this
traditional Bank approach to agricultural credit as compared with the
broadet approach of supporting the self-susuained development of rural
financial markets. Thus there is very little specific reference to
the role in rural areas of other non-institutional credit. It appears
that the unstated assumption was that the Bank would process a
traditional line of credit operation through the only available formal
credit institution for the agricultural sector, and attention then
focuses on credit components and improving the cooperatives.
42.      Another feature absent from  the project documents and files,
when measured by longer term objectives, is reference to domestic
resource mobilization as a means of achieving self-sustaining growth
for BMC.   The  focus  was  almost  exclusively on raising on-lending
interest rates to market levels as a means of meeting this objective,
with the implicit assumption that continuing lines of credit from the
Bank (and several other donors since the Bank was only a minor player
at the beginning) would provide for growth and compensate for capital
erosion.   This  reduced  any  incentives  to  Government  and BAAC to
encourage growth of domestic deposits--although during the project
period these deposits did grow.   There was also a relative absence of
discussion  in  the   files   of   recovery  performance  and  arrears
management, although this can have as great or greater impact on
viability than  interest  rates.    The  lack  of  attention  may have
reflected approval of BMC's management of arrears. (>he strategy
dilemma facing the Bank in such situations is clearly apparent--namely
thtt where foreign exchange is a small requirement and credit demand
is mostly for domestic currency, the use of external credit funds is
debatable unless there is clearly a shortage of domestic funds. Using
lines of credit as a means of achieving repeated and prolonged
resource transfers to a country can be in direct conflict, at the
credit institution level if not also at the Government level, with the
macroeconomic management object;ive of increasing the mobilization for
development of domestic resources.)
81   It is noteworthy that the  proposal during preparation to include
commercial banks in the project, which would have required the
Bank to tackle the broader financial sector issues, was dropped
at an early stage, apparently largely because that operation
woutld have been incompatible with the BMC lending line which
involved Government-decreed subsidized on-lending interest rates.
The interest rate issue is in part responsible for holding up
processing of the proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project a
decade later.



- 14 -
43.      In  judging  the  results  of  this  project,  therefore, the
initial long-term objective (of developing the cooperative system as
the retail credit network) may be abandoned, as it was early on during
implementation, in favor of the pragmatic shift towards emphasizing
expansion of BAAC's term lending program to small farmers, especially
in the very poor North and Northeast provinces. Once this change of
direction had been made, with the reallocation of most of the on-
lending funds to non-specified lending (and therefore mainly in the
North and Northeast), the cooperative part of the project lost
importance.9/
44.      Measured against this  secondary  objective  of expanded term
lending for smallholders, the project was clearly very successful.
Growth in this category of lending has been consistent and has
continued after the project, in part stimulated by special programs
introduced by BAAC such as the successful credit-in-kind scheme and
lending to joint liability groups.    Staff in Thailand confirmed that
the Bank's association with this expansion, especially the impact of
the consultants and visiting Bank staff, contributed to a more
professional approach to credit management in BAAC.
45.      The marriage under the  project  of the lending operations of
BAAC with the parallel longer term cooperative development component
turned out to be an imperfect union and one which ceased to have great
relevance as soon as it became apparent that no great expansion of
BAAC's  cooperative  lending was  likely  to  occur.    In  any case,
individual lending was expanding  nicely.    Given the well known past
failings of the cooperative movement, the audit is concerned that the
cooperative component under the project was included not so much as an
independent expression of long-term faith in its potential, but more
as a means of retaining credibility and orthodoxy within the overall
Government strategy for BAAC as the apex bank for the cooperative
credit movement. Both in Thailand, where BAAC was primarily concerned
with the on-lending component, and in the Bank, where the cooperative
component was supervised by a separate unit, the parallel components
were less integrated and less interdependent than the overall longer
term strategy implied was necessary. In the event, and here unashaaed
hindsight is being brought to bear, if the Bank was fully committed to
9/ It is noteworthy that under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, approved only 3-1/2 years later, the cooperatives did
not figure at all, indeed  the  cooperative agenzies noted to the
audit  mission  that   assistance   for  unfinished  construction
requirements and for continued technical assistance had to be
sought from elsewhere. This was quite a swing in the approach
and indicates that the preparation and appraisal of the first
project seriously underestimated the problems of the cooperative
movement. It also raises questions about the original depth of
commitment of all parties to the cooperative lending strategy.



- 15 -
assisting the cooptrative movement in the long term it would have been
preferable  to  initiate  a  self-standing  line  of  assistance, with
specialist design, appraisal and supervision, rather than attaching
such assistance to a predominant credit line where the large resource
transfer opportunities tended to give that component the priority
attention.
46.      The flexible and pragmatic  reallocation  of  the bulk of the
project lending funds to smallholder lending in the North and
Northeast was inevitable once the problems with the 'appraised' on-
lending  components   became   apparent.       The  identification  and
preparation of  these  specified  components  involved  much effort on
FAO/CP and Bank staffs' part, and was a cause of concern at the time
to BAAC staff.   It was  unfortunate  that  much  of this effort bore
little fruit (at one time  there were 20 or more specified components
identified).    Although  -he  switch  to  non-specified  lending was
justified, there remains some concern in the audit's view over the
large amount of  that  lending which  was  for  the purchase of draft
animals, considering that traditionally in Thailand draft animals are
bought and sold, in many cases, at the beginning and end of the rice
sea.son. Therefore, this type of finance is not of a development
nature but is recurrent operating finance. This issue is addressed in
the PCR.
Lessons
47.      One overriding lesson emerges  from  the audit.  This relates
to the need for a more detailed analysis and presentation of financial
sentor issues to place formal sector agricultural credit projects
(which may  be  only  one  form  of beneficial  intervention in rural
financial markets) in a proper long-term policy and strategy context.
In this respect the preparation and appraisalnwere deficient both as
to technical details and  priorities.    This suggests that allocating
this type of project to operating divisions whose primary focus is
agricultural production, may not bring to bear on such operations the
broader  institutional  and   financial   skills  required  to  manage
interventions in the financial  sector  properly.101  An agricultural
credit operation focussing on production components, as this one
predominantly  appeared  to  do,  could  be  adequately  managed  by a
technical  agricultural   division,   provided   that  the  overriding
financial  and  institutional   aspects   wera  receiving  appropriate
attention faom  other cnources.   This was  not  the  case with this
project.
48.      The  follow-on  Second   Agricultural  Credit Project makes
broader  references   to   rural   financial   markets, although  the
interventions included relate only to raising on-lending interest
rates for BaC and a study of policies and criteria concerning lending
to small-scale farmers. Thiswas  a  step in the right direction, but
104 The Region suggests that this project does not provide sufficient
evidence for this conclusion.



- 16 -
is far short of dealing with many of the critical rural financial
market issues which are being taken up in some other countries by more
recent projects and policy-based lending operations.



- 17 -
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CRLDIT PROJECT
Project Completion Report
January 16, 1986
Agriculture Division 2
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
i



- 19 -
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1816-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overview
1.        Introductiou:  The overview is based on (a) the Project Completion
Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Co-
operatives (BAMC), the executing agency for the main component which utilized
86X of the loan proceeds; and (b) the 'Annex' covering the technical assis-
tance (provided under the loan for Co-operative Promotion Department (CDP) and
the Co-operative Auditing Department (CAD)) prepared by OPS. It also draws on
the findings of a November 1985 field mission and information and reports in
Bank files. It highlights project achievements, institutional development and
assesses BAAC and Bank performance.
2.        Project Cycle.  The Agricultural Credit Project was the Bank Croup's
first involvement in rural credit in Thailand. It was identified by a Bank
reconnaisance mission in 1968, prepared by the Government with the assistance
of FAO/IBRD CP in 1978, appraised in 1979, approved by the Bank's Board in
March 1980 and became effective in September 1980. The project was completed
in December 1984 and the Loan was closeu in June 1985.
3.        Project Objective.  The project was designed to expand the term
lending capacity of BAAC and strengthen the Co-operative System to channel
credit and other services to farmers. The credit component was to support
chree BAAC lending categories, on-farm development, shrimp culture and oil-
palm development, as well as unspecified categories. Not less than 50X of the
loan proceeds allocated for subloans was to be used for financing smallholders
primarily engaged in farming activities.
4.        Project Achievements.  The Region agrees with the PCR main
conclusion that the project was successful in contributing to the growth and
strengthening of BAAC and in lending over 50% of the loan proceeds to small
farmers. During the project period 1980/84 BAAC expanded term lending
operations in the North and North-East, two of the poorest regions in
Thailand; lent over 50% of the proceeds to small farmers; lessened its
dependence on subsidies for financial viability by increasing its lending rate
by two percentage points; and upgraded staff capability in planning, training,
and monitoring projects. Under technical assistance provided for CPD and CAD,
all CPD and CAD staff training targets were achieved and four hundred co-
operatives were restructured.
5.        Project Implementation.  During implementation, changes in the
composition of specified and nonspecified term lending components had to be
introduced for reasons given in para. 7. These are detailed in the PCR
paras. 3.01-3.18 a summary of which is given below:



- 20 -
Table 1: COMPOSITION OF THE LENDING COMPONENT
Appraisal                    Actual            As a Z of
Hectare  Baht Million    Hectare   Baht Million   appr;
On-farm development   11,200          277            769            18         6
Shrimp-culture          1,080          54           220            10         19
Oil palm                  350          11              -            -          -
Nonspecified                -         194                         763        393
-        536                          791        148
The following table shows a summary of the actual project costs compared with
appraisal estimates:
Table 2: PROJECT COST
(Baht million)
Appraisal             Actual
No. of              No. of              Difference
loans   Amount      loans    Amount      (Amount)
Lending Component (BAAC)
On-farm development           4,000      277         346       18         (259)
Shrimp culture                  225       54          54       10          (44)
Oil palm development             220      11           -        -          (11)
Non-specified term lending         -     194     58,685       763          569
Subtotal                               536                  791          255
Technical Assistance
BAAC                                      31                    9          (22)
CPD, CAD and OAE                         185                  224           39
Subtotal                               216                  233           17
Total                                  752                1.024          272
(In US$ million)                        38                   44            6
The increase is attributable mainly to (a) the increased lending component,
(b) decline in the Baht foreign exchange rate, and (c) domestic price
increases over and above those anticipated during appraisal.



- 21. -
6.        The follcwing table compares the actual and proposed financing
arrtngements5
Table 3: PROJECT FINANCINC
(Baht million)
Sub-borrowers   BAAC   Government    Bank    Total
Lending Component
Appraisal                        91        135         34        276      536
Actual                          119        302          -        370      791
Technical Assistance
BAAC:    Appraisal                -          -          -         31       31
Actual                   -         -           -         9         9
Others:  Appraisal                -          -        113         72      185
Actual                   -         -         163        61       224
Total:     Appraisal               91        135        147        379      752
Actual                 119       302         163       440    1,024
(In US$ million):
Appraisal                5         7           7         19       38
Actual                   5        13           7         19       44
7.        The difference between appraisal and actual for the specified term
lending component reflects the problems and difficulties encountered in
implementation which have been fairly well brought out by the PCR. On-farm
development proved to be very slow due to the difficulties in obtaining
consensus from participating farmers before proceeding with land consolidation
works. Loans were to be made to farmer groups with irrigable paddy fields in
contiguous areas suitable for on-farm development. To be eligible each group
had to agree not only to construction but also to pay for operation and
maintenance of the constructed irrigation and drainage systems. There were
also problems in identifying suitable areas because a similar scheme was being
implemented by Royal Irrigation Department (RID) at less than full cost to
farmers. For shrimp culture, serious problems arose concerning squatters and
there were conflicts with land-owners. Consequently these programs had to be
curtailed. And delays in the appointment of consuzltants and completion of
feasibility study for the reformulation of oil-palm schemes led to exclusion
of the pilot scheme. The unutilized funds together with the savings under the
technical assistance components were rea.located to the ongoing term lending
for individual farmers in the North and North-East.



- 22 -
8.        BMAC, with Bank concurrence, authorized all the branches in the
North and North-East to handle non-specified term lending. Branch managers
were encouraged to identify projects eligible for medium- and long-term
loans. Fifth-eight thousand six hundred and eighty-five sub-loans aggregating
8 647 million (US$28 million) were disbursed to individual clients. The
following table from PCR summarizes the disbursement of these loans by
purpose:
Table 4. ANALYSIS OF NON-SPECIFIED LENDING: LOANS BY PURPOSE AND REGION
North    North-East    Total    Z
----- (in 3aht million) ----
Livestock and Fisheries
Draft animals                               145         114          259
Breeding animals                             20          33           53
Pig/hen building                              2           4            6
Cattle raising                               13          21           34
Pig raising                                   1           2            3
Fish pond                                     1           3            4
Subtotal                                  182         177          359    56
Farmland Development, Buildings, etc.
Land improvement                             26           7           33
Land-lease/acquisition /a                    70          18           88
Water improvement                             7           3           10
Fruit improvement                             6           1            7
Curing plant                                  2           1            3
Farm building                                38           8           46
Storage building                              6           2            8
Subtotal                                  155          40          195    30
Farm Equipment, etc.
Tillers, tractors and trailers               54           8           62
Pick-up trucks                                1           2            3
Milling machines                              1           2            3
Farm machinery and others                    21           4           25
Subtotal                                   77          16           93    14
Total - all farmers                       414         233          647   100
Total (small farmer)                    (249Y       (113)       (3627  (567
/a   Under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Ln 2310-TH), financing
land-acquisition has been explicitly excluded.



- 23 -
In the Region's view this lending program reflects the changed market demand
for credit brought about by (a) the decision to shift significantly the
project lending from the Central Plains of Thailand to the North and North
East Regions and (b) the fall in the world market price of rice. During field
visits interviews with subloan beneficiaries revealed that results were
substantially in line with those expected at time of subloan appraisal.
9.        Technical Assistance for BAAC. The loan enabled BMC to (a) upgrade
the qualifications, knowledge and skills of middle-level staff through over-
seas training fellowships, staff exchange and study-visit programs and (b)
benefit from the services of two consultants provided on a long-term basis to
work in the Planning and Training Departme;its. The performance of the two
consultants was very satisfactory.
1C..      Institutional Performance.  BAAC's overall financial position
remained sound over the project period. BMC's total assets increased from
B 14.5 billion as at March 31, 1980 to B 23.3 billion as at March 31, 1984, at
an average rate of 11.4% per annum and total equity rose from B 2.0 billion to
B 2.4 billion over the same period. At the end of the project period debt/
equity ratio was at 8.5:1.0 well within the existing statutory limit. Lrjn
disbursements to individual clients increased from B 5.9 billion in FY79_ to
B 10.8 billion in FY83 at an average rate of over 17%. Lending to
Agricultural Co-operatives increased more slowly at an average annual rate of
9.4% and by the end of the project period loans channelled through the co-
operatives had fallen from 23% to 17% of total disbursements with the increase
in direct lending to farmers by BAAC. Lending to farmers' associations which
have a history of poor repayment rate fell sharply from B 165 million in FY79
to B 43 million in FY83. During the project period deposits from the general
public rose from about B 2 billion to B 4.8 billion and accounted for 16% of
BAAC's total funds as of March 31, 1984.
11.       The net income increased from B 75 million in FY79 to B 195 million
in FY83, primarily as a result of increased lending volume and increases in
the lending rate from 12% to 13% in March 1981 and to 14X a year later. The
ratio of interest income to total assets improved from 10.8% in FY79 to 12.3%
in FY83 while the ratio of interest paid increased over the same period from
6.3% to 7.4%. The interest spread was sufficient to cover the administrative
expenses, and the provisions for bad/doubtful debts and exchange rate
fluctuations. The repayment rate for loans to individual farmers varied from
68% to 75% over the project period, compared with 59% to 74Z during the period
FY73-78. Arrears at the end of FY1983 were estimated at B 3.2 billion for
individual loans. The reserve for doubtful debts amounted to B 1.46 billi.in
or 9Z of the principal outstandings as at March 31, 1984 including the loans
to co-operatives and farmers' associations. Although the reserve can be con-
sidered adequace taking into account the development character of BAAC, the
PCR does not adequately stress that the arrears of 25 to 32% of the outstand-
ings limits the growth potential of BAAC.
2/   FY79 = year ended March 31, 1980.



- 24 -
12.       A permanent monitoring and evaluation unit was established in 1982
and a system for regular monitoring and review of each project currently
exists, and is operational.
Bank Performance
03.       The PCR states that BAAC benefitted from the stimulating effect of
the frequent contacts with World Bank staff which has contributed to more
professional attitudes at all levels of the bank's organization. The Bank
enjoyed its good relationships and frank dialogue with the Government and
BAAC. In retrospect potential problems with specified projects, on farm
development, shrimp culture and oil palm development were under-estimated
during appraisal. However the 'unspecified term lending' category under the
Loan Agreement enabled the Bank and BMC to find alternative term lending
opportunities. Bank agreed with BAAC's requests to (a) reallocate part of the
loan to unspecified lending categry and (b) authorize branches in the North
and North-East to handle the term lending under the unspecified lending, which
contributed to institution building.
Perform.snce of the Borrower
14.       BAAC demonstrated that it was capable of adjusting its lending
program to meet project objectives. But the administration of the loan and
the subsequent evaluation exercise has brought to light some operational
problems, for example, difficulties encountered in working with line agencies
which are subject to cumbersome administrative procedures; and lack of
systematic procedures for monitoring changes in farming practices,
productivity or income-level among client farmers. These are detailed in
paras. 6.04 through 6.08 of the PCR. The Second Agricultural Credit Project
included a pilot scheme, ..._ principal objective of which was to improve the
provision of credit services and technical advice to small farmers by
coordinating the efforts of the Research Division of Department of
Agriculture, Department of Agricultural Extension and BAAC. Implementation of
this Scheme has helped BAAC strengthen its links with these line agencies,
(Department of Agricultural Extension and Research in the Department of
Agriculture) and also undertake an evaluation of the pilot scheme.
Project Impact
15.       The Project objectives were to expand BAAC term lending capacity and
strengthen the cooperative system to channel credit and other services to
small farmers. The Credit Component was expected to finance three specified
lending categories (on farm development, shrimp culture and oil palm
development) and unspecified categories. Not less than half the funds were to
be onlent to small farmers.
16.       The project contributed to the expansion of BAAC's term l.fding
especially in the North and North-East, two of the poorest regions of
Thailand, and helped to strengthen the institution by lessening BMC's
dependence on subsidized funding by increasing its interest spread. The
increase in the lending interest rate by two percentage points enabled BAAC to
cover the administrative costs and overheads and produce a surplus over the



- 25 -
project period. Project impact on cooperatives was mixed. The project
enabled CPD and CAD to upgrade staff at headquarters and in the field, and
achieve a large measure of decentralization.  (CAD headquarters to field staff
improved from 73:21 in 1982 to 29:71 in 1984) and 400 cooperatives were
restructured.  But according to the PCR there has been no appreciable
improvement in the loan repayment performance of cooperatives and the
proportion of BAAC loans through cooperatives declined over the project
period.
17.       Impact on agricultural development differed from what was envisaged
at appraisal because of early implementational problems (para. 7) and sharp
decline in the world market price of rice. At appraisal it was expected that
the project would generate increased production of (a) paddy by financing on-
farm development through land consolidation covering some 11,200 hectares of
paddy land in the central plains; (b) shrimp by financing two settlement
schemes covering 1,080 hectares in the Southern region; nad (c) palm oil by
providing long-term credit for establishing 350 hectares of oil palm. During
implementation for reasons explained in para. 7 the scale of on-farm
development and shrimp culture was drastically curtailed while the oil palm
scheme was totally excluded. Funds earmarked for these programs were
channelled to meet the term credit demand of farmers in the North and North
East Regions for financing farm activities.  These comprised purchase of draft
animals for rice-production, cattle and other livestock for breeding,
construction of farm buildings, effecting improvements to farm lands,
procurement of tillers, and pick-up trucks etc.  Of the B 647 million lent
under this non-specified lending category, B 362 million went to small
farmers. The activities financed resulted in increased production and income
of small farmers in two of the poorest regions of Thailand, namely the North
and North East Regions.
18.       In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) average economic rate of return
was calculated as 35% based on the three specified lending categories namely
on-farm development, shrimp and Gil-palm development which constituted 64X of
the SAR lending component. Due to the changes introduced during implementa-
tion these three lending categories accounted eventually for only about 4% of
the total lending component. The rest of the funds were channeled to meet the
diverse term credit demand of farmers in the North and North East Regions.
Because of the large number of activities financed and the small loan-size
calculation of an overall economic rate of return has not proven feasible.
Financial rates of return on major individual activities financed were
recalculated during supervision and these ranged from 19.5% for pig-breeding
to 24.2% for draft animals.
Lessons Learned
19.       An institution like BAAC with its countrywide network of branches
and field offices and commercially minded management is an effective vehicle
for channelling credit for agricultural and rural development and mobilizing
rural savings. Provided there is liberalization of interest rates, BAAC with
its nationwide network of branches and field offices is capable of 7obilizing
resources through deposits. During the project period the margin 3 between
the lending rate and time deposit rate was totally inadequate and this issue



- 26 -
has been specifically addressed under the follow-on project. There is also an
ongoing dialogue on the issue.
20.       BAAC currently estimates productivity and income changes for special
projects. This is not extended to cover the general lending program. The
SAAC project department has appraising capability but the staff have not had
training in evaluation techniques. Any future project should include a
component to help BAAC strengthen staff capability .n monitoring and
evaluation.
21.       In the SAR it was expected that land consolidation would result in
increased yields. This did not happan and in retrospect it is clear that land
ccnsolidation without appropriate technical packages and price inceptives is
unlikely to increase ,ields.
22.       In Thailand 50X or more of the rural income is generated in nonfarw.
activities. The Government and BAAC should consider financing rural activi-
ties of farmers such as brick making, pottery, establishing and operating
small garages (for repairing tillers, water pumps, agricultural implementr),
and purchase of items of equipment for domestic crafts like sewing and
carpentry.
3/   Before August 2, 1985 lending rate was 14X and Time Deposit rate was
13.5X. Since August 2, 1985 lending rate is 14X and Time Deposit rate is
1XZ.



- 27 -
AORICTULUML CIDlT PROJECT
LOUI 1816-13
COWETION  WORT
COOPERATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
The project provided support for the tevitalizing of poor quality
farners cooperatives by subsidizlng cooperative management staff and by
strengthening the quality of the Cooperatives Promotion Department (CPD)
and the Cooperatives Audit Department (CAD) personnel.
lackground
At the time of project appraisal, there were in Thailand an
estimated 868 agricultual cooperatives with 815,127 members and 3,608 fair-
mers' Associations vith 350,600 members.
Despite strong government support, the performance of both
agriculture cooperatives and farmers associations was disappointing.
Ineffective management excerbated by staff shortages, Inadequate support
for staff training and Insufficient Incentives to attract qualified
personnel to work for primary cooperatives at district level was considered
the main reason for poor performance. Another serious problem noted was
the Inability of most associations to hire staff because of the limited
profits from their small-scale operations. A 1978 joint study by AAC
found that only 16 of 742 cooperatives fell into a good' classification
while none of the 1,564 associations surveyed met the criteria.
Government's Role in Cooperatives
At project appraisal cooperatives were overseen by two depart-
ments within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC); CPD was
In charge of supervising and regulating cooperatives and CAD had the
responsibility for auditing cooperatives. The Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAE) vas In charge of supervising and regulating associations.
Unfortunately, both CPD and CAD had not been effective as overseers of
f             tcooperatives.  The major weaknesses of CPD were Ineffective supervision of
!            cooperatives, emphasis on numerical expansion as opposed to quality control
of cooperative operations, limited planning capelilitles, Inadequate staff
traidng, and lack of professional assistance for cooperatives to become
efficient business organizations; CAD's weaknesses were Insufficient
staffing to meet audit schedules, narrow role limited to identifying
exceptions to regulations and procedures, Inadequate staff training, and
centralized location of auditors In Bangkok which limited direct contact
with primary cooperatives.
Project Component Objectives for CPD and CAD
Under the Technical Assistance segment of the Credit I project
the following activities with trainiag implications would be funded:
1l        Tralning ProEra.  The project wiould provide funds for an
Intensive training program to strengthen the cooperative system, including
training for senior staff of cooperatives, officers of CPD, and auditors of
CAD.



- 28 -
responsive to the actual needs of primary cooperatives, the Government
adopted several principles to be implemented under the project. The first
was to promote decentralitation of planning and Implementation responsibil-
ities from Bangkok to regional training centers. Ten regional centers
would each be responsible for about seven provinces and would develop
specific courses for lndividual provinces; In the future, simple courses
could probably be Implemented by provincial CPD officers. The second
principle was to develop the training capacity within CPD, which was also
necessary for In-service training for CPD and CAD staff. The third
principle was to mobilize staff of CPD, CAD, and BMAC for follow-up of
trained staff during thelr visits to cooperatives. Without constant on-
the-job advice through frequent follow-up, the training staff might fall In
solving the actual problems encountered at district level.
Restructurilng of Cooperatives. Another major government program
to strengthen the cooperative system was the restructuring of cooperative
in poor financial condition. Under this program, the multi-operations of a
cooperative would first be examined thoroughly and a restructuring plan
would be prepared, based on the findings of an evaluation team consisting
of staff from CPD, CAD, and BAAC. Assisted by a consultant, CPD would
establish operational procedures for evaluation, train members of field
evaluation tezms, and review the proposed restructuring plans.
Government would provide subsidies for cooperatives being
restructured to cover training expenses and to enable them to raise salary
levels, so that they could retain the services of trained managers and
staff. The Government would provide a monthly subsidy of B3,000 ($150) for
managers, B2,000 (S100) for senior staff, and B1,800 ($90) for cashiers.
These allowances were considered adequate to attract qualified staff to
cooperatives in small towns. Subsidies would last for five years but would
be reduced by 20 percent annually.
Improvement of the Auditing System. CAD did not have sufficient
auditors to audit cooperatives and associations once a year as legally
required. The shortage of CAD auditors would become serious under a
proposed cooperative structure, with the additional responsibilities and
activities assigned to CAD, such as auditing problem cooperatives on a
quarterly or semi-annual basis, establishing control systems in
cooperatives, and counselling on managerial and operational matters.
Furthermore, participation in the program to evaluate and prepare plans for
restructuring cooperatives would also require a large number of auditors.
Therefore, the Government decided to Inc-ease the number of auditors from
150 to 500, and also to establish 72 local offices in all provinces by
19F4, so tthat auditors would be located outside Bangkok and become familiar
wi.th local conditions. During the three-year period, 290 additional
auditors would be employed; with project financing, about 50 provincial
offices would be established and about 50 houses constructed as an
incentive for relocation of qualified auditors to provincial offices.
Impact for Techr.ical Assistance Component on CPD/CAD
In terms of targets for training set in the project SAR the
results are encouraging. A summary of training activities completed is
given In Table 1.



- 29 -
Table 1 TRAINING PROGRAM TARGETS AND ACHIEVEKENTS
CATEGORY                               TARGET         ACTUAL       ACHIEVEMENT
CPD Training for Cooperatives
Farsmers1/                           40,000        139,415          +3482
Cooperative Committee Members         1,600          3,799          +2372
Cooperative Staffl/                   1,600
Group Chairmen and Secretaries                      20,952
CPD la-House Staff Training
Officers                                800          1,777          +222Z
Provincial Staff                                     1,764
CAD In-House Staff Training               450            700(yr. 1)   +1552
Study Tour                                 40             24            602
(of target)
1/   Present and prospective members.
Responsibility for staff training had been transferred to NACTI after
the loan agreement was signed. Total staff numbers trained by NACTI
included to complete the overall training picture.
Table 2 gives details of Bank supported Civil Works equipment and
materials, Vehicles and conservative services utilized during the project
period. A detailed breakdown of total project expenditure may be found in
Attachment 1.



- 30 -
Table 2  CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES. EQUIPMENT AND TECHNICAL SERVICES
Bank Loan Amount
Item                                                         (US5'000)
Civil Works
Staff Housing CPD                      40                    235
Staff Housing CAD                      50                    300
Auditoriums CPD                         2                    199
Dormitories CPD                         3
Equipment and Materials
CPU                                     -                     93
CAD                                     -                     73
Vehicles
Micro buses CPD                        10                     51
Pick-up CAD                            60                    140
Technical Assistance
Fellowships
Consultants CPD/CAD:                                          1,452
Fellowships CPD/CAD                                              41
OAE                                                 20
TOTAL (US$)                                              2,604



- 31 -
Evaluation of the Bank supported technical assistance component
Summary: The component met virtually all of its quantitative targets and
funds were utilized as planned for technical assistance personnel, civil
works, vehicles and training materials and equipment. On the qualitative
side much success was recorded during the project period but some questions
must be raised concerning tbh sustainability of training programs
especially those for senior staff at headquarters and the ability of
restructured cooperatives to survive when management-subsidies are
withdrawn.
1.        Cooperative Restructuring:  The target of 400 cooperatives to
participate in the restructuring program was met.  As might be expected,
better qualified staff were recruited since their salaries were
guaranteed.  Management of the cooperatives did Improve and some societies
graduated to a higher quality classification. The big question remains
however, will the cooperatives be able to continue to pay for good quality
managers when the government subsidy is terminated?
On the positive side mucb useful data on agricultural
cooperatives has been collected and analyzed and training has been
completed for committee members. Staff of CPD have been exposed to
cooperatives problems and an improved bond has been forged between both
parties. CAD has provided considerable input for the financial aspects of
cooperative restructuring and again the bonds between the provisional audit
officers (PAOs) and the cooperative members have been strengthened.
2.        CAD
CAD appears to have achieved a large measure of decentralization
during the project period. The proportion of headquarters to field staff
in 1984 was 29:71 a significant shift from 1982 when the ratio was 73:27.
Preliminary evaluation of the reaction to the advice and consultancy role
of the PAOs has been positive leading to a CAD decision to further
incorporate training activities into the function of field offices.  There
was an institutional change completed in CAD making all four divisions
responsible for all types of cooperatives (previously each division
specialized). Twelve Regional Audit Officers have been appointed, each
responsible for the supervision of six PAOs. The PAO is thus supervised by
an RAO who, in turn, reports to a division chief. This replaces the old
system where the PAO reported to a liaison officer who was answerable to
the Director General.
By creating working groups within CAD and acting in an advisory.
capacity to those groups, the technical assistance team belped build
analytical and planning capability in the Department. Management observed
the impact of decentralization in the field and was willing to decide on a
future course of action as far as its program was concerned.



- 32 -
3.        CPD
CPD ts a more complex entlty with a broader misslon than CAD.
Its qualltative performance is not so clearly auccessful as that of CAD.
Supervislon dslsions could not observe a clear movement towards decentrall-
zation and this ls borne out In the 1:1 ratio of headquarters to field
staff. This ratio Is high compared with BIMC where the figure is 1:4.
Training achievements: as shown in Table 2 CPD completed a significant
volume of training which largely surprassed SAR estimates. The training
capacity of the Department was strengthened and a considerable body of
teaching aids were prepared. The mobile training units were augmented and
their operation streamlined. While training for field staff and for
cooparative employees and members was fully supported there was not the
same enthusiasm for providing in service training for headquarters
personnel. It is to be hoped that this situation vill Improve thus
ensuring that the investment in the training function will bear fruit in
the years ahead.
Technical Assistance Performance: The performance of the technical
assistance team was of a high standard and output exceeded that of their
terms of reference. The team worked well with their counterparts and were
very responsive to suggestions from CPD and CAD.
The Future The CPD/CAD training component in reality provided support for
a phase of a longer-term institution strengthening program. If the project
support phase provid!A the framework for an effective training delivery
system together with supporting materials, subsequent phases must Include
the institutionalization of training at all levels. This will require
continuing support and recogvition for the Training Division, a continuous
assessment of training needs and the establishment of a staff development
program.



Appendlx I
- 33 -
THAUAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1816-TH)
COMPLETION REPORT
RAAC: Compartive Balance Sheets as at March 31
Actual
1980     1981     1982      1983       1984
ASSETS
Cash on hand and due from banks ^            3,838    5,035    6,353    5.709    4,459
Government bonds                                80    i,825        59         -    1,734/c
other                                           34       111      137       183       42
Subtotal                                  3.952    6.971    6.549    5.892    6.235
Loans to cooperatives                        3,263    3,615    4,098    4,156    3,791
Loans for farmers associations                 464       415      362       330      294
Accrued interest                                37        47       46        44       49
Leass:  Provision for doubtful debt           (431)    (505)    (537)    (521)    (513)
Institutlonal Loans Outstanding           3 333    3.572    3.969    4,009    3.621
Loas to Individual farmers                     6,944    7,317    8,993   10,454   12,331
Accrued Interest                                 468       549      729       968    1,223
Less: Provlsion for doubtful debt               (339)    (396)    (568)    (709)    (945)
Individual Loan Outstanding               7.073    7.470    9.154   10.713   12,609
Fixed assets less depreciation                   183       243      310       454      595
Provislon for exchange rate fluctuation            -       171      200       209        -
Total Assets                             14.541   18.427   20.182   21.277   23.060
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
Savings deposits                               509       510    1,013    1,276    1,910
Time deposits                                1,445    1,791    2,205    2,038    2,870
Other deposlts                                  36         -        3         4        4
Deposlts from comercial banks                6,401    7,187    8,181    8,641    9,018
Other liabilities                              133       137      317       352      209
Accrued interest payable                       109       142      227       272      288
Subtotal                                  8.633    9.767   11 946         12,583   14.299
BOT rediscount                               2,500    4,500    3,500    3,500    3,000
Long-term borrwing                           1,413    2,034    2,422    3,737    3,332
Total Liab'llties                        12.546   16.301   17.868   18.820   20.631
Equity
Paid-in capital                              1,490    1,541    1,605    1,605    1,605
Donation                                         -         -        -         -        I
Provislon for exchange rate fluctuation          -         -        ^         -     (194)
Reserves                                        57        57       57        57       57
Accumulated profit                             448       440      520       628      765
Unappropriated profit                            -        88      132       167      195
Total Equity                              1.995    2.126    2.314    2.457    2.429
Total Liabilities and Esuity             14,541   18.427   20.182   21.277   23.060
Estimated current ratio /b                     4.2:1    4.9:1    3.5:1    3.4:1    2.6:1
T-.al Debt/Equity                              6.3:1    7.7:1    7.731    7.7:1    8.5:1
la  The average during the year is substantially lower than shown here. This is because
the CBS deposit their funds between December and March and BAAC deposits then back
with the CBS temporarlly until funds are needed for loan disbursements in the spring.
/b Current assets include an estimate of loans maturing within one year and current
llabilltles exclude interbank deposits.
/c  Includes interest bearing Inter-bank deposits.



- 34 -                                             Appendix 2
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1816-TH)
COMPLETION REPORT
BAAC: Comparative Income Statements (April 1 - March 31)
(B million)
1979/80        1980/81        1981/82        1982/83        1983/84
Amount   2    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount            Amount   %
Income
Interest earned on:
Loans to cooperatives and
associations                                   347   23        369   21       453   20       538   20       518   18
Loans to Individual groups                        856   58    1,036   58    1,264   55    1,608   59    1,916   66
Deposits                                          207   14       283   1i       462   20       420   15       240    8
Government bonds                                   68    5        87    5        87    4        60    1       110    1
Miscellaneous income                                  4    -         7             27    1        45    5         30    7
Total Income                                  1,482  100    1,782  100    2,293  100    2,67   100    2,814  100
Expenses
Interest paid on:
'Borrowings                                       130    9        81    5       143    6       204    7       214    7
Deposits
General public                                  177   12       216   12       313   14       338   12       406   14
Commercial banks                               558   37       791   44        937   41    1,086   40    1,059   37
Administrative expenses                           320   22       475   27       564   24       765   28       711   25
Provision for bad debt                            222   15       131    7       204   10       110    7       229   10
Total Expenses                                1,407   95    1,694   95    2,161   95    2,503   94    2,619   93
Net Income                                        75    5        88    5       132    5       168    6       195    7



- 35 -                               Appendix 3
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1816-TH)
COMPLETION REPORT
Income and Expenses as a Percent of Average Total Assets, 1979/83-1983/84
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
Baht million
Average total assets                         13,675    16,484   19,312   20,709   22,817
-     % of average total assets
Interest Earned
Loans                                        8.80       8.52     8.89    10.36    10.67
Deposits                                     1.51       1.72     2.39     2.03      1.05
Government bonds                             0.50       0.53     0.45     0.29      0.48
Miscellaneous income                         0.03       0.04     0.14     0.22      0.13
Total Income                          10.84      10.81    11.87    12.90    12.33
Interest Paid
Borrowings                                   0.95       0.49     0.74     0.99      0.94
Deposits-general public                      1.29       1.31     1.62     1.63      1.78
Denosits-commercial banks                    4.08       4.80     4.85     5.24      4.64
Total Interest Paid                    6.33      6.60      7.21     7.86     7.36
Gross Margin                           4.51      4.21      4.66     5.04     4.97
A4ministrative expenses                        2.27       2.49     2.55     2.95      2.81
Provision for bad debt                         1.62       0.80     1.06     0.53      1.00
Subtotal                               3.89      3.29      3.68     3.48     3.81
Net income before provision
for exchange rate risks /a                   0.62       0.92     0.98     1.58      1.16
Provision for exchange rate
fluctuation and amortization                 0.07      0.39      0.30     0.75     0.30
Net Income Before                      0.55      0.53      0.68     0.81     0.86
La Before amortization of exchange rate fluctuation.



Appendix 4
- 36 -
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 1816-TH)
COMPLETION REPORT
Reallocation of Loan Proceeds between Categories
(US$S'000)
Final
Original   January 25,  disburse-
Category                                      allocation      1985        ment
BAAC
SubloAns                                      13,500     15,939.7    16,002.4
Consultant services and fellowship             1,200        396.0        394.3
CPD
Civil works                                      600        450.0        434.2
Equipment and materials                          150         105.5       110.5
Vehiles                                           60          50.6        50.6
Consultants' services and fellowships          1,200      1,515.6      1,483.2
CAD
Civil works                                      350        299.4        293.0
Equipment and materials                          100          72.9        74.1
Vehicles                                         150         140.4       127.8
Consultants' services and fellowships            250          9.6          9.6
OAR
Consultant services                               90          20.3        20.3
Unallocated                                      1,350
Total                                      19,000     19,000.0    19X000.0
Note:  For clarity reallocations effected in December 1980, June 1983 are not
shown seperately.



- 37 -
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
i                      LOAN NO. 1816 -TH
PRIJ[CT CIMPIETlIN REPURT
BA AC, MAY 1985.



- 38 -
KINGD.OM OF THAIL.AND
BANK FOR A3RIcY`LT'JrRE AND A(;RICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
(EAAC)
FIRST AGRICULTUJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
7Loan no. 18.6-TH
PROJ ECT COMPLETION REPORT
BAAC. Mey 1985



- 39 -
I.  Background
1.01    Since  1960 Thail3nd has experienced  sustained  acononoic
growth  which  has  been matched in few other  Asian  or'  Pecific
countries.   Between 1960 and  i81 rhe GNP per nee.i incre-sed  8t
an  average  annusl  ra*e  cf  a.6  percent:  and  ttne  vaLue  cf
agricultural  production gretwi at an average of over 5 percent per
year.   Thailand  has  consolidated iTs positicn as  one  of  the
world's  leading  net expor-ers of furm products.   The index  of
food producrion per head has Increasad steadily; rice exporrs
have  increaseA  both  absolutely and as a  proporrion  of  total
production,  and Thailtnd has consistently supplied about a third
of  the rice wnich enters world trade.   Other maJor saricultural
exports are maize. cassava and rubber. Agriculture provides the
ma'n  source  of  employnent for '70 percent of  the  Thai  labour
force.
1.02      Among the problems associated with growth has Deen  the
slow  rate of intensificatior. of farm production.   Most  of  the
growth   in  farm  producticn  has  resulted  directly  from  the
clearance and cultivation of forest land. ratther than from tne
adoption of neu' i'armitr  tetr'niques.  The nationwide average YieL]
for  paddy increased only 13 percent from 1960 to 1930.  and  tne
yields for some crops. including cassava. declined during that
period.
1.:,3     A secotid major problem has been the unequal  nature  of
growth in the agricultural sector: while the aggregate rate of
growth  has  been  L.es.ve.  large  numbers  of  farmers  ha,e
remained poor, many of them alzo landless.
1.04        Farm  credit  policies  are  relevant  to  both  tneae



- 40 -
problems    It  is generally believed that  technological  change
depends on the availablitY of institutional credit. for both ricn
and  poor farmers ilike.   Sinoe 1975 successive Thnai government.
have introduced a number of messuies which have had the effect of
dramatically increasing the amounts of credit available in the
rural areas. From :1975 to 1983 the amounts lent for agriculture
by financial institutions increased aeven-fold. from 6 to 42
billion Baht; by 1983 over 40 percent of Thai farmers had access
to  institutional loans for farming.   The pattern of  change  in
Thailand with respect to tile promotion of institutional farm
credit has followee- that of most other market-econowies in Asia.
1.05       One result of the changed credit policies has been the
rapid  growth  of  the  B^hk  for  Agriculture  and  Agricultural
Cooperatives (SAAC).  The BAAC was estaclished in 1966 as a state
enterprise bank with the sole function of providing credit for
agriculture. at interest rates fixed at levels below those of thle
commercial banks.   The BAAC's disbursements increased from 3.842
million Baht in 1975 to 13.4i50 million Baht in 1983.   By the ernd
oLf  FY 1933 1.19 rliiiin  rmers were reTiatered as direct clients
of the bank, and a further 975,000 had access to BAAC loans
through cooperatives and farmer associations. The total of a.165
farmers eligible for BAAC loans account for about a: percenr of
all Thai farmers.
I. Formulatton
2.01   Tile  Royal  Thai  Government  initially  sought  financial
assistance from the World Bank in order ro enhance the qualityz
and  performance of agricultural development  institutions.   The



- 41 -
project  aS  a  v;hole includeJ  cmponer.tr  for  the  CooVeratives
Promotion Cepertment.  th.e Cooperatives Auditing Ce*artment.  and
the  Office of Agricultural Economice as well as the BAAC.   Tris
proJect  compLetion report concerns oniv the BAA_ portion of  the
proJect. and has been prepared by SAAC personrel.
2.02        According  to the Staff  Appraisal  Report  (February
1980)  the  obJective  of channelling funds through BAAC  was  to
increa,se medium- and long-term lending. particularly among small-
scale  farmers:  and to provide technical assistance  to  improve
BAAC's  ability  to  fulfill  ita increasingly  central  role  in
Thailand's  rural  deveiop,%ent  effort.  The total loan  was  for
S 14.7 million.  including a t 13.5 million lending component and
* $ 1.2 million non-lending component.   Table 1 summarises  the
loan uttlisation plan.
Specified lending
2.03        On-farm  development   The  proJect  was  to  provide
$ 13.15 million to finance land improvements on 11.200 ha of
paddy  land.  directly  affenting 4.000 farmers.  The Wcrla  Bank
contribution was to be $ 7.15 million,  48 percent of the lending
component  of the loan.   Tne land involved would be  within  the
areas ser ed by C'hao Phraya ir'rigation projects. on Thailand's
Central  Plain.   rhe  rates  of  return  estimated  for  on-farm
development   were   25  percent  (financial)  and   38   percent
(economic).
2.04        Shrimp culture  Tne project was to finance 225 shrimp
farmes with holdings of about 5 ha each. in Surat Thani and
Nakhon Sri Thammarat proviniaes in the Southerr; region. A total of
$ 1.859 million was ro be rrovidled. including $ I.C22 from tne



- 42 -
World  Bank.   The  estimatedl  rates of return  were  36  percent
(financial) and 32 percent 'economic).
2.05       Pilot palm-oil development  The prc'ect was co provide
term loans for establisning 350 ha of oil PaiLis by 220 farmuers
within 3 settlement ecrihemea 'n thie Southern x-gion. total lending
w.ss  to be $ 0.56 million,  of which $ 0.3U3 was to be  from  tne
World Bank.  Goth the financial and econcmic rates of return w--e
estimated as 27 percent.
Non-specified lending
2.06         An important feature of the project was  to  increase
BAAC's capacity for identifying, appraising and implementing its
own  term-lending  pro,ects.    The  appraisal  report  -herefore
allocated  $  5.02  million,  34  percent of  the  total  :ending
component of the loan. to non-specified categories of lending. to
strengthen  BAAC's  existing term  lending  program.   Categories
tentatively identified for this component of the loan were  fresh
fish culture, the new village development program. orchard
development in the East and South,  bacKyard iairy farming in the
Centre and North. deep-well irrigation in tne Northeast ana
rubber planting in the South. as well as BAAC's on-going term
lending programme.
2.07        At appraisal the BAAC agreed to try to lend a minimum
of  50 percent of loanable funds to 'small-scale'  farmers.   k'cr
the purposes of this prolecr small-scale farmers were defined  as
farmers  who operate holdin-s emaller than thse average for  thelr
particular province.



- 43 -
Technical assistance
2.08          The  project  was  to  f'inanse  i26  tnan-rnontfs   of
cons'sltants'  rime  for  BAAC.  and a further 135  man-mor.ths  of
overseas staff training.
2.09         Interes.t. rates charzed for -ub-Loans made under  1rh4a
project  vwere  to  be the normal BAAC rates for  respective  loan
categories  andi amounts.   At the t'me of appraisll the  interest
rate  for  most BAAC loans was i2 percent.   The average cost  of
runds to BAAC was prolected to be 11 percent.
III Project Implementation
3.01        Funds  were re-allocated among sub-componenze of  the
ProJect on several occasions, with the principal result of rs-
directing  funds  from project  to  non-specified  lending.   The
reason for this change was that the projects identified at the
time of the loan appralsal were being implemented more slowly
than had been anticipated. sand re-allocations were necessary to
ensure that the funds could be dit,bursed accordlng to the plLnned
time  schedule.   Consequently thle amounts targetted for  proJect
lendinz were reduced substantially, and the palm oil project was
ezcluidad from tV)e 'rolect completely.   The Giant Prawn Promotion
ProJect in Kalasin province became eligible for sub-loans, as
part of the non-specified lending component of the overall
proJect.   However the net result of the re-allocations was  that
94  percent  of the World Bank funds were included in BAAC'S  on-
going  term  lending  progrvame,  compared co  only  6.5  percent
according  to  tl-.e  inir,a'.  ian  utilisation  *lan.    Table  2
summari.3es the revlsed uses of the loan.
3.02   The closing date set in the loan agreement was 31 December



-44-
198ai.   However  followinT  the  World  Bank's  consent  for  re-
allocating  the  runas  93  percent  of   all  disbursements  were
completed bzy the end of 1982, and the total lending component was
completely witthdrawn by September 1986. three months before the
set closing date. Table 3 summarises the disbursement schedule.
Specified lending
3.03       On-farm development  Initially six land  consolidation
pro4ects  were to be included in th,is category.   In practice tne
limitea time available each vear for land consolidation work. the
reluctance  of some land-owners to participate in  the  projects.
and the requirement that all dc4cuments concerning,invitations to
bid for land consolidati-n contracts be submitted to the World
Bank for approval meant that progress with these projects was
unacceptably slow.   Consequently loans were in fact disbursed in
three separate land consolidation project areas: irn T'anmbon Singh
and sub-district Phranonchaksri. Singburi province. and in Tambon
Sawaengha. Ang Thong province. all within the area of the Upper
Chao  Phraya  Irrigation Project.  phase II.   The  Central  Land
Consolidation  Office,   the  Department  of  Lands,   the  Royal
Irrigation Department and BAAC were collectively responsible for
Implementing  these projects.   In each case the obJective was to
consolidate and level farmers' plots end improve irrigation and
drainege facilities so as to raise yields, Particularly of paddy.
3.04     In Tambon Singh 128 farmers benefitted from the project.
an area of 1.64.3 rai was consolidated and total loans disbursed
by BAAC for land conzolidation amounted to 5.56 million Baht
($ 0.24 million).  Cf thia 3.06 million Bsht ($ 0.13 million) was



- 45 -
disbursed from World Bank funds.
3.05     In Phranonch.gksri 2;3 fSrmers borrowed ?rom BAAC for land
consolidation  work.  art area of 960 rai  was  consolidated  and
3AAC*,X total disbursemen- was 2.90 m:Llion Be-it (s 0.13 million).
ut  this  1.60 million Baht '$ 0.07 million) was from World  SanK
funds.
3.06      In Sawaengha i9O farmers benefitted from  the  prodect.
2,197 rai of land was consolidated. and 7.29 million Baht ($ 0.32
million)  was  disbursed  by BAAC  for  project  purposes.   4.01
million Baht ($ 0.18 million) was from World Bank funds.
3.07         Shrimp  culture  Inititally two areas were  to  be
included in tnis component of the project: Kanchar.adit in Surat
Thani province. ana Pak Phraya in Nakhon Sithamarat. In the Pak
Phraya area serious problems arose concerning squatters on the
land designated for the proJect. and conflicts with influential
'and   owners.    Therefore  the  shrimp  culture  component  was
restricted in prectice to the Kanchanadit area.
3.08     BAAC undertook this proJect as a Joint venture with  the
Cooperatives promotion Department and the Department of Fisheries
in the area of the Kanchanadit Land Settlement Cooperative in
Surat Thani province.   Out of the 75 farmers, in the cooperative.
54 Joined the project, with a total land area of 1.378 rai. The
total loan disbursement to these farmers was 8.84 million Baht
($ 0.38 million), of whlch 4.59 million Baht ($ 0.20 million) was
from World 3ank funds.
3.09    By agreement with the World Bank no funds were  disbursed
for   oil  palm  development,   because  there  were  delays   in
implementing the project which would have jeopardised the  banK's



- 46 -
planned loan disbursement schedule.
Non-specified lending
3.10    On-going  term lending  During tne project  period  large
amounts were transferrea from others components into the BAAC's
on-coins  term  lending progrem.   Amoutnts transferred from  each
source component were:
-------------_.----------------------------------------------__
--Specified lending:  land consolidation         $ 6.77 filljlon
shrimp culture               0.822
oil-paim oevelopment         0.308
--Non-speciried       giar.t prawn                 0.33
lending:
new village development      0.69
orcnard development          1.65
rresh-water fish             1.38
--Non-lending:        consultants                  0.52
training                     0.29
--Unallocated                                      0,.80
--Other                                            0.96
TOTAL                                             14.50
3.11    Within the on-goins lending programme branch managers  in
the Northern e.nd Northeastern regtons were encouraged to identify
medium- and long-term loan projects among their client farmers.
particularly among small-scale farmers who were clients of BAA'r.
Generally. managers were successful in identifying projects. ar.d
met  theLr  targets.   A total of 603.349 million baht  ($  26.40
million)  was  disbursed to 55.212 individual  clients.   of  the
total. 234.671 million oant. or * 10.27 million t38 Percent) was
disbursed to 25.592 farmers in the Nortneast. and 368.678 million



- 47 -
baht  or  $  4..13 nlillion '62 percent) was disbursed  to  29.620
farmers in che North. The average loan size in the Nortneasit was
9.170 baht 'S 401.31).  ccmpared to 12.447 oaht (S 5514..73) In tnE
North.
3.12       Almost  three quarters of the value of  all  sub-ioanr.
(7394)  were  used to prcmote rice production.  and a  further  17
percent  were  used for livestock  purch&ses.   Relatively  smal
amounts were disbursed for a variety of other prolucts. ineltudini
vegetable3.  maize.  Ccbacco  and fruit trees.   No other proauct
accounted for more than I percent of the total amount disbursed.
The pattern of disbursemernt varied somewhat by region, with
livestock  being relatively more important in the Northeast  than
in the North. Disbursements by type of product are summarised in
Table 4.
3.13        Forty  one  percent of all loans were  used  for  the
purcnase of draft animals: other significant categories of loan
use were lana acquisition (11%). the purenase of breeding animals
(9%).  construction  of farm buildings (8X) and the  purchase  of
tillers  and  tractors ;7%)j.   The purchase of draft animals  was
miore important in tne nJortheast. where tnia category accounted
for 51 percent of all disbursements.   Land acquisition accountee
for 13 percent of the value of all loans in tne Nortn. and
construction  of farm buildings and tne purchase of  tillers  and
tractors each made up about 10 percent of loans in that region.
Table 5 summarises the distritution of loane oY purpose.
3.14      Of  the  sub-loans for land acquisition 46  percent  b.v
value  were lent to small farmers.   In the Northern Rezion  this



- 48 -
proportion was 32 percent (Table 5).
3.15     Crcss-tabulating the use or sub-loans by product and  by
purpose,   the  most  imPortant single*use of sub-loans  was  the
purchase  of  draft animals for rice procuction.   lhis  one  use
accounted  for 35 percent of all disbursements.   The purchase of
cattle and other 2lvestozk for breeding accounted for 13  percent
of all disbursements, the acuizitlon of land for rice production
for 9 percent. and the construction oe farm buildings related to
rice production for a further 5 percent.
3.16       .)f the 55,212 beneficiaries of sub-loans. 33.279 (60%)
were small-scale farmers.   This group borrowed 55 percent of the
total disbursement, with an average loan size of 10,000 baht
(8 481.22). Small farmers made up 65 percent of all beneficiaries
in  the North,  where they borrowed 60 percent of the total value
of all loans, an averege of 11,402 baht ($498.99) per clx4%nt. In
the  Northeast  55  percent  of  benefic'sries  were-|small-scale
farmers:   they   borrowed  48  percent  of  the  value  of   al.
disbursementa  in  the  Northeast.   an  average  of  8.071  beht
i*. 353.22" per farmer.
3.17    The Giant Prawn Promotion ProJect was introduced as  part
of the non-specified lending component of the overall prozect.
substituttng for the backyard dairy development Included ir the
orlginal  loan disbursement plan.   The objective was to  promote
the produczion of giant prawns in Kalaain province. NiOrtheRstern
Thailand. - Loans  were made to 27 out of the total of 40 farmers
participating in the giant prawn project. fo- prawn production on
135  rai of land,  and with a combined loan value of 1.9  mil41.on
Bant  (S  0.08  million).  fOf this 0.24  million  bant  (*  C.:!.L



- 49 -
million) was from World Bank funds.
3.18     Table 6 summartses the numbers of beneficiaries and  tne
average sizes of sub-loans.
Technical assistance
3.19   BAAC used the tecnnical assistance comporent of this  loan
in   part  tO  inteneify  Its  staff  training  and   development
programme.   The emphasis of this programme was on induction  arid
in-service training seminars; however the TBRD loan enabled BAAC
to upgrade the qualifieations, knowledge and skills of mainly
middle-level officera under overseas training fellowships.
3.20   A total of 6 officers undertook advanced (masters  degree)
training  at the University of che Philippines.    Four  of  these
officers   returned   to  the  bank  with  masters   degrees   in
Agribusiness Manegement, one wtth a masters degree in Development
Communicatlons, and tne remaining officer will graduate with, a
masters degree in Agribusiness ilManagement during 1985.
3.21   In additicn to masters degree training in the Philippines,
12 middle-level officers were abie to viasit other agricultural
credit  institutions within the Southeast Asia region,  under the
auspices of the staff exchange programme organised and overseen
by the Asia and Facific Regional Agricultural Credit Assoctation
(APRACA).   These study programmes of 2-3 weeKs duration provided
opportunities   co   learn   from  the   experiences   of   other
institutions. In some cases systems developed in other countries
have  since  been adopted by BAAC.  as a direct result  of  tnese
visits.
3.22   Other  groups of BAAr' officers made training visits  to  a



- 50-
number of countries. under the auspices of the study-vieit
programme sponsored by rhe German Foundation for International
Development  (DSE).   3AAC used the proceeds of th'e IBFD loan  as
BAAC:'S  counterpart  funding for  this  programme.   GrouSps  have
visited Indonesia (1982). We3t u<ermany and the Netherland3
(1983).
3.23     Several  other middle-level officers were also  sent  on
short training courses overseas on a case by case basis, as noted
in Table 7.
3.24    Aside from training,  the technical assistance  component
of the loan was used to employ two consultants on a long termi
basis.   One  consultauit wcsrKe.  within the Planning Department of
BAAC, and was responsible for up-grading a number of aspects of
the Planning Department't work.   The second consultant worked in
the Training Division. and was responsible for organising most of
the training programme described above as well as BAAC's iln-
service training programme.
IV Institutional Performarce
4.01 Positive institutional development during the period of the
loan.   Although  there  was  no  significant  change  to  BAAu's
charter. 1980-1984 was a period of rapid and far reaching change
for  the bank.   The scale of the lending operation continued  ro
expand, although the target wnich tne government sets for
agricultural  lending  by  commercial  banks  remained  unchanged
throughout  the period at 11 percenr (and an additional 2 percent
which  can  be lent for agri-ousiness):  the pattern  of  lencing
changed:  the range of services offered increased; and there were



- 51 -
important administrative changes within the banK designed to
increase  efficiency.   A very important change was that 3A^C waS
able to raise the interest rates charged to client -armers: rates
for most lending categories increased by 1 percentage point at
the end of March 1961. and there was a further increase of 'I
percentage  point for all loan categories one year  later.   Thus
the interest rate for sr.ort-term loans to direct clients. the
largest single lending categcry. rose from 12 to 14 percent
during this period.
&.02   Table 8  summarises BAAC activlties at the end of the  two
financial years 1979 and 1983. te. from March 1980 to March 1984.
Increases  have  occurred  in almost all aspects  of  the  bank's
operations,  most  notably  in the volume of  lending  to  direct
farmer clients which increased at an average annual rate of over
17 percent.   Lending to agricultural cooperatives increased more
Slowly, at *n average rate of 9.4 percent, and by 1983 the
proportion of loans channelled through the cooperatives hed
fallen from 23 to 19 percent of total disbursements. Lending to
farmer associations,  which have a history of very pcor repayment
rates.  fell sharply from 165 million Baht in 1979 to 43  million
Baht in 1983.
A.03     The introduction of a credit-in-kind service ih 1980 twas
a  very  impertant innovation.   Formerly  farmer  cl±ents  often
experienced  difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies of  farm
inputs  of the right type and at reasonable prices.   The credit-
in-kind programme was introduced to solve this problersi.   :redit-
in-kind was started on a small scale in 1980; by the 1983
financial Year loans worth t.201 millioni Baht were disbursed in



- 52 -
kind,   about  12  percent  of  total  disburseiments.    (hemical
ferviliser  eccounted  for  !E Percent  of  creait-1n-kind,  frotm
either  the  Marketing Organisation foo Farmers (19  9)  or  fr-tn
private  companies  (27%).    Various  kinds  of  tarm  machinery
accounted  ;or most of tne remairing 5LI percent oe all ct'ejlt-ir-
kind.
LL.04     Mcre recently BAA:- ha! attempted to provide  assiSta:AO
for  cllent farmers in another of tneir major proolems.  that  of
marketing  rheir  crcps.   In February 1984 SAAC  introduced  it.s
"camnam"  programme  on a pilot basis.  providing  paddy  stors.ge
facilities in cooperation with rhe Public Warehouse Organisatioll.
and providing special loans designed to enable clienr.s to deJaY
the sale of their paady until prices had risen from the low point
in  the immediate post-hervest period.   BAAC has also  laid  the
foundations  for  cooperation with private companies  to  operate
mai.e  silos for the benefit of clients farmers.  both to  er.stre
that farmers receive fsir prices fcr their crops and to provide
proper  arying facilities to reduce tne problem of 2flatoxin  atnd
thus  reise  the  quality  of  tthe  produce.    BAAC's  mnarketinz
activities have expanded greatly in the 1984 financial year.
4.05      The  BAAC expanded its ler.ding to  "special  proiec2t¢'.
areas where the normal lending criteria could be adapted tC tnfe
special  needs of a particular group of farmers and a  particular
crop  oz: other  agricultural activity.   Special  project  areas
usuallY  receive  mcre than tie usual arncunt of  assistance  fr3ni
various  governmental agencies.  as itl the case of  the  proJeeo-
supported oy this IBRD lcan. whitch should ensure higher levels c:



- 53 -
production and therefore better loan repayment prospects tnran
there would be otherwise.
4.06     One itnportant institutional cnange initiated directlY bY
this  World ERanK project was the up-grading of BAAC's  capabili½v
for  monitoring  and  evaluarion.   Following  th.e  World  B,ni,'s
recommendation  BAAC Itticial.y  uat Up a moniroring and evalua*IcO
committee.  2heired by one of rhe deputy genieral managers ol' the
bank.   however  a  permanent Monicoring ond hvalustion TUnit  -aS
established in 1982, again at the suggestion of the World ba:nk.
and a system for regular monitoring and .reviews of esch BAAC
project now exists and functions effectively.
4.07      There  were some significant changes  In  the  relative
importance  of the various sources of the bank's operating  fund,
as  summarised in Table 9.   in the p-.st tne two largest  sources
have   been  mandatory  deposits  from  commercial   banls.   and
promissory notes disco'.nted Dy the Bank cf Tnailand: these two
sources provided 44.2 and 17.3 percent respectively of the total
in  the  1979 financJal year.   Deposits  frotn commercial  banks
remnained  the  largest  single  scurce in 1683   but  provide I a
somewhat lower proporrtion o? rhe to-al fund. at 39.1 percent.
The contribution of BoT promissory notes kei_ to 13.0 per-ent.
The contribution .rom BAAC's own capital fund also declined. from
13.3 to 10.5 percent.   Borrowings.  ce which over 90 percent are
from  foreign  sources,  increased tneir snare from 9.8  to  1L.)
percent  of  the total fir.d.  Deposits from  the  general  PubL.oc
increased  from  13.7  to 20.7 percent,  consisrent  wirh  BAAC'S
general policy to mobLlise domestic zaaings as a step towards
greater financial self-sufficiency.



- 54 -
4.08      During  the period of the loan some  preliminary  step!
were  taken  towardls  expand.-e  iendine  to  smalier-scale   ard
economically  more  marginal farmers.   Iniial findIngs  sugges7
that  the risks in lenditsg to these farmers maJ be Less than  has
been supposed. and branch manavers have been encouraged to expand
in  this  sector.   Interest  in small-farmer  lerding  has  also
encouraged BAAC to collect more data about both clients and non-
clients, and as a result the tank has a clearer picture of the
kinds of farmers who are its clientz. their credit needs and
their  uses  of  3AAC  loans.   This learning  process  has  been
facilitated greatly by the bank's computerisstion program, which
has proceeded rapidly during the period of the loan.   By the end
of the loan period records of disbursements and repayments for
all loan types and in all branches were stored on the BAAC'S
mini-computer  at  the head office.   Micro-computers  were  also
being used increasingly witlin the bank. particularly by the
Planning Department.
4.09     Table 10 summarisee BAAC's loan recovery performance for
tne period from the l979 to the 1983 financial year.   Recoveries
of  short term loans fluctuated Oetween 76 and &o percent of  the
matured   principal.   with  no  discernible  trend  over   time.
Recoveries of medium term loans were somewnat less  satisfactory.
declining from 65 to 58 percent. mainly because of an increase In
arrears   rather  than  because  of  deferments  of   repayments.
Recoveries  of  long term ioafl5 remained abouz 67 percent  durIrne
the   period.   although   the  amount   in   arrears   increased
substantially relative to the amounts for which repayments were



- 55 -
deferred.   Amounts  in  arrears for more than one year  declined
substantially, by 31 percent for the three ?inancial Years 1981 -
1983.
4.10      Tables  11 and 12 show the BAAC's income statement  and
balance sheet for tne financial years 1979/80 to 1983/84.   Table
8 summarises changes in selected key indicators of financial
performance, from 1979 to 1983.  The capital fund increased at -n
average annual rate of 6 percent during the period.   Liabilities
increased  Lby 12 percenr and assets by 1i percent per year.   Net
profit increased at an average rate of 29 percent. indicating
that  the  financial  position of the bank  was  basically  sound
during this period.   However the rate of increase in net profits
declined from 50 percent in 1980-81 to 27 percent in 1981-82 and
to  17 percent in 1982-83.   This downward trend is a  cause  for
aome concern within the bank.
V. BENEFI-S AND JUSTIFICATION
Specified lending
5.01      On-farm  development  The principal target of the  land
consolidation projects was to increase paddy yields from pre-
proJect levels of about 400 kgs per rai to 600 kgs per rai in tne
wet season and 700 kgs per rai in the cry season.   These targets
were not achieved in any cf the three project areas.   Wet season
yields  averaged  324  kgs per  rai  in  Phranonchaksri,  322  in
Sawaengha and 297 in Tambon Singh. lower than th:e reported yields
of  400  kgs  per rai prior to the  project.  Dry  season  yiolas
averaced 429 1<s per rai in Phranonchaksri and 575 kas per rai in
Tambon S'ngh.



- 56 -
5.02      A  numnber  of f^tcre *account for  these  diseppointing
results.   Water  deLivery  sY tenis  wqere not  rel_P0le.  artd  in
practi-ce  dry-season  Irrization  has  been  available  only   Ln
alternate  years since tAc commnencement of t'iese  projects.   The
problem  of water availab'lity has been particularly aCute in tne
area of Sawaenrha.   In this prcject farmers were not able to Tet
enough water in the dry season for paddy farming. their prefered
activity, and they were unwilling to follow the Department of
Agricultural   Extension's  advice  to  grcw  mung  beans  as   a
substirute crop.  Drainage was a serious problem in Sawaeng:fa and
Tambon Singh. and many participating farmers suffered from floods
in  the  wet season which destroyed their crops.   In  all  three
proJect areas the land levelling was carried out poorly. as the
result of tne contrectors' cost-cutting measures. thus severely
limiting the farmers' ability to capitalise on the improvements
in  supplies  of  ir-rigation  water.   In some  cases  poor  land
levelling  also  contributed to  flooding  problems.   Additional
problems  not  directly  related  to  the  proJect  were   pests.
particularly field rate, and the low priCe of paddy. which
encouraged many farmers to seek non-farm and off-farm employment
instead of investing more of their IaL%our in their farms.
5.03      Table 13 eutumarises levels of incoime  and  expenditures
for each of the three land-consolidation projects. comparing the
situation at the start and end of th.e proJect period.   In Tambon
Singh  and  PhranonchaKsri proJects net household  income.  after
allowing   for  inflatioh.   increased  by  19  and  33   percent
respectively.    Much  *,f  this  increase  resulted  from  higher



- 57 -
earnings from non-farm activities in both rural and urban areas.
Income  from  farming activities increazea by 4u and  4"  percent
respecUiveL:'.   However  expendittures on farm  inputs.  primarily
fertilizer  and  labour,  increased more quickly.  at 90  and  3t
percent. resulting in increaees of net ferm incomes of 24 an] J0
Percent,  jower  raves  then for ncn-f±xrm income in both  proaiee
areas.      Leveis   of   nousenold   e%penditure   increased   at
subsrantially hi.gher rates than income. resulting in levels of
household surplus 15 - 17 percent lower -at the end than at the
start of the project.
5.041    Ln the Tambon Sawaengha proJect area. where the problems
of  proJect implementation were more serlous than elsewhere.  net
nousehold incomes rose by 22 percent durins the project period.
However this increase occurred only because of an increase of 62
percent in earninrs f±rom non-farm activities. Gross farm incomes
fell by 5 percent.  and net farm income by 8 percent.   Housenold
expenditures nevertheless increased by 57 percent. resulting inr a
44 percent reduction in levels of household surplus.
5.05      Of  the principal disbursed zince the  start  of  these
three  proJects,  repayments by the end of Marcn 1985 amounted Tc
68 percent in Tambon Singh.  80 Percent in Phraronchaksri. and 56
percent  in Sawaengha.   Tnus the proJect with the  most  serious
implementation problems has so far recorded the best loan
repayment rate.
5.06      Shrimp culture  (Of the 75 farmers ex-pected to taKe part
in  the  shrimp  culture  project  in  IEanchanadit.  Surat  Than.
province.  54 farmers actually  Iid so.   Some of the remaining 2i
farmers  could not meet rhe BAACts eltgicilJi ttc riteria for  Ion,.



- 58 -
term loans. wlhile others preeered not to take part mainly because
of lack of confidence in the success of the project.
5.07       Table  14  sumiarisee.  tne  production.   income   and
expendlture levels associated with the proJect.  Generaliy levels
of production were close to the targets ser. with a totai shrlmv
production per household of 1,L 97' kgs, compared to tne target of
1.500  kgs.      Low  prices  for shrimps were  rhe  most  seric.Aes
problem  faced by the farmers.   The average price was only  55.7
baht per kg. compared to an expected price of 70 Baht: prices
were low because of the small size of the shrimps.  which in turn
resulted  from  rioblems of food Supply in the  ponds.          Income
from the by products of 3hrimp farmiing, mainly fish and crabs.
compensated  somewhat for the low  shrimp  prices.   Nevertheless
average  incomes  from shrimp production were 87.849  Baht,  well
below the target of 105,000 Baht. Moreover production costs were
higher than expected. 39.227 compared to a target of 37.000 Baht
per household. Consequently the net household income from shrimp
production was 48.622 Baht. compared to the target of 68,oC0
Baht.
5.08      Although these overall average production  levels  were
generally  satisfactor' it should be noted that they increasel as
the farmers and participatlng agencies gained experience in
shrimp  raising.   The gross incomes from shrimp raising  of  the
farmers who joined the project most recently averaced 103.000
Baht.   Productivity  will  increase further it the  problems  of
water supply can be solved:t some of the ma±n and lateral canals
become too shallow during the *irV season: in ocher cases flooding



- 59 -
has damaged the water distribution system. These probleme wi.l  be
alleviatdd if procedures for maintaining lateral canals can be
improved.   It  should also be noted that the production  ficures
cited above are oased on the records kept by the cooperative, and
do not account for ant shrimps sold privately (and against
regulations) by she farmers.
5.09      The most serious problem for the BAAC with  respect  to
this  project has been the low repayment rate.   The farmers  hAd
l.rge  loans  from th.e Kanchanedit  Land  Settlement  Cooperative
before receiving their 8AAC loans. and the Cooperative has
encouraged farmers to repay their earlier loans first. Therefore
BAAC loan repayment rates have Deen slow. reaching only 17
percent of the principal due at the end of December 1984.
Non-specified lending
5.10     Giant  prawn  promotion  project   Of  the  150  farmers
exPected to take part in this proJect only 27 actually did so.
The low rate of participation is due to the farrnera lack oe
confidence  in  the success of the  project.   The  inappropriate
nature   of  the  equipment  made  available  bY  the  Office  of
Aceelerated  Rural  Development  contributed  to  this  lack   of
confidence.
5.ii      Table 15 summarises levels of production.  incomes  and
expenditures  among  farmers who took part in the  project.   The
ptin6iPal problems have been associated witn levels of production
of  prawns.   The  surviv*l  rate of young  prawns  was  onlY  14;
Percent, compared to a planned level of 30 percent. because of
the fa'm6rs lnexperience in raising prawns. and the low level of
the techulcal advice available to them.   Consequently production



- 60 -
levels have been only 63 kgs per rai, compared to the target of
120 kgs.   The average selling price for prawns has been  .53 Bah,t
per KY2  well uAove the expected level of i20 Baht per kC.   Good
prices have cornmensated somnewnat for low levels of production.
Nevertheles3 the average gross income per re.i has been onlY 9.712
Baht. compared to the target of 14.400 Baht.  MIoreo-er produntion
costs (includine inverest payments) have been 607 Bant per rai,
compared  to  the  expected level of  325  Baht.   Therefore  the
average profit from prawn iroducrion has been 2.317 Baht per rai.
compared to the target of 6.900 Baht.
5.12      The  loan repayment rate from this proJect haR been  69
percent of the principal due for term loans.
5.13       Farmers  in  Lampang and Sakon Nakhon  provinces  were
surveyed to assess the benefits of sub-loans disbursed as part of
BAAC's normal long-term lending programme. Broadly. the farmers
interviewed had improved their situations  substantially.   Total
farm size increased slightly in both areas, from 7.2 to 7.7 rai
in Lampang and from 31.6 to 33.9 ral in SARon Nakhon. the
principal changes belng in the areas owned by the farmers. There
was   evidence   of  increased  mecnanisation   of   agriculture,
particularly in Lampang. where the percentage of farmers owning
some  kind of tractor increased from 4 to 19.   The value of farw.
machinery owned increased by 49 percent in Lampang and by 36
p.?rcent  in Sakon Na.ahon.   The number of draft animals increased
from 2.8 to 4.3 per househcld in Lampang, and from 2.3 to 2.6 in
Sakon Nakhon.
5.14      There  were  elso substantial increases  in  levels  of



- 61 -
indebtedness,  from  a household average of 1.40-3 Baht  to  8.362
Baht ($ 62 to $ 366) in Lampaklg and from 3.278 to 9.701 Bokt (t
143  to  $  424) in Salton Na*non,  noT  incl1.dirg  the  sub-loan3
received under this project.   Loans reported in the surveys were
almost exclusively from BAAC . both before and after receiving the
term  loans  undfer  this project.   Amounts  received  tinder  the
project  r&nged  from 2.000 to Lj,000 Baht ($ 88 to  $  656)  per
household in the two areas, with an average of 7.871 Baht ($ 344)
in Lampangc and 7.263 Bah-  i$ 318) in Salton  akhon.
5.15      Results  with respect to income  and  expenditures  are
summarised  in Table 16.   AlIroi,gh levels of agricultural income
are higher in Lampang than in Sakon Nakhon, the broad patterns of
change  have been similar in both areas.   Income from crops  has
not increased, and in the case of Sakon Nakhon has actually
decreased.   The  static  nature  of crop income  should  not  be
interpretted  to  mean that no changes nave  occurred.   In  both
areas  the total areas planted leclined marginally.  despite  the
fact that the average farm size increased. as noted above. There
were also marginal increases in peddy yields. from 196 to 216 kgs
per rai in Sakon Nakhon.
5.16      The  decline in the farmed area is related to  the  low
returns  from  crops,   particularly  paddy.  compared  to  other
activities. The number and value of breeding livestock increased
from  1.2  to 3.4 animals in Lampang,  and their value  increased
from  2.135 Baht ($ 93) before the loan to 3.556 baht ($ 374)  at
the time of the survey. In Sakor Jakhon farmers owned an -average
of .96 breeding animals before rhe lcan, and 1.51 afterwards. As
a result income from livestock has increased substantially. more



- 62 -
than  doubling in each area.   Farm expenses have Increased DY 23
and 15 percent in the two areas respectively. and net farm
incomes have increased by 40 and 16 percent.
5.17      income erom non-farm ard off-farm activities has  rien
substantially,  resulting in increases in net household income of
over  40 percent.   The effect of non-farm income has  been  most
marked in Sakon Nakhon. where earnings rose oy 92 percent and
their contribution to tots. net household income rose from 42  to
55  percent.   Because of the increase in the relative Importance
of non-farm Income,  the net household income in Sakon Nakhon t4as
marginally higher than t-hat in Lampang.
5.18      The  repayment  performance for  these  two  groups  of
farmers is summarised below. specifically for loans received
under this project.   In Lampang an average of 5.421 B&ht (S 23?)
had become due for repayment, out of the total disbursement of
7.893  eaht (S 345).   Average repayments amounted to 6.224  Baht
(*272) per household.  117 percent of the amount due.   In  Sakon
Nakhon an average of 5.895 Baht ($ 288) had fallen due. of the
total disbursement of 7.263 Baht ($ 318).   The average repayment
was a.732 Baht ($ 207) per household. 80 percent of the amount
due
5.19      Farmers in Sakon Nakhon gave a variety oE  reasons  for
their inability to repay their loans, primar'ly related to the
effects  of natural hazards on levels of productlon.   HoweVer  a
slmple analysis shows that repayment rates are related to the way
in  which the loans were utilised by client farmers.  The average
repayment was 93 percent among farmers who were Judged by their



- 63 -
credit  officers to have used their loans Precisely as  in  their
loan  agreement3.   73  percent  among  those  who  had  devia'ed
"slightly" from thie loan agreement. and 37 percent among the
small  number  of  farmers  who  had  deviated  fror.. teir  loal
agreements in serious ways.
-------------------------------------------------------------__
Non-specified lending: summary of repayments for sampled farmers.
(Mean valuea per household)
Lampeng           Sakon Nakhon
Baht    S           Baht      S
Amount disbursener.t     7.893    345         7,263    318
Maturea prlncipal        5,427    238         5.895    258
Amount repaid            6.224    272         4,732    207
Amount repaid as %
of matured principal          117                    80
5.20      The overall average repayment rate for sub-loans in the
non-specified lending category ia 89 percent of the matured
principal.   Of the 11 percent which is past due. deferments have
been granted for 5.6 percent, and 5.I percent is in arrears.
VI Conclusions
6.Q1      The  period  1979 - 1983 was a  period  of  slgnificant
growth ana change for BAAC, and this loan has contributed to tnat
growth and chang.9 in important respects.   In financial terms the
loan allowed BAAC to continue developing Its term lending
capability,  leading  to permanent improvements in the productive
capacity of client farmers. Up-grading BAAC's monitoring and
evaluation capability will have a permanent effect in improvlna
the  quality  of  BAAC's  letnding  accivities.    The  SAAC  also
benefited from tne stimulating erfecr of the frequent contacts



- 64 -
withi World Bani staff wn1ich are a necessary siz~e effect of lcana
of thras sort. This contact has contributed -o more professional
atrmitudes  at  li levels of the ai ank's organisation.   cnd  telped
BAAC staff to see the activities of their berK In. a broadet'
perspective.   The need to prepare this Project Completion Report
has6    In tself  alerted  the manwagement and  staff  of  BAAe  :o
administrative snortcohiings which might not otherwise nave been
asytematically investigated or discussed.
6.02       The  aaeministration  of  the losn can  be  regarded c
successful  in  many respects.   The funds were  disoursed  at  a
satisfactory rate. The target of disbursine half of the sub-loans
to small-scale farmers was exceeded. In the shrimp raising and
p,drawn raising suw-proJects sUb-loans have clearly increased
farmers'   incomes   substantially.    With   some    exceptionso
particularly the shrimp-raising project in Surat Thani province,
repa&yment rates were similar to BAAC's ceneral record for term.
loans.
6.03      In other respects the loan was less successful,  and Its
administration and the subseguent evaluazion exercise nave drawn
attention to somLe of BAA-Vs operational problems. These problems
are already apparent from the analysis above. and can be
summarised as follows.
6.04    During  tnie  itfe of the project, tnere  was  a  radical
chance  in  the disbursement plan.   Initially 62 percent of  tnie
lending compon~ent was to to for specIfled lending purposes in
proJect  areas.   In pracatice the proportion of the  funds  whicn
were lent in project areas was only 4 percent of thte totial.



- 65 -
1.irnln  *.fl:mmnent.  sJ1pt't     merentr entered BAAC*s normal term
lendine  croramme.  in  a  relativelm  uncontrolled  wav.   This
drastic re-allocaton of the funds reflects the oroblems which
BAAC has encountered in workint with other line agencies in
croect  areas.   Imolementacion of the orojects was much  slower
than nad been anticisated.
6.os      There is a diaturbinz lack of evidence of increases  in
farming  oroductivitv.   This is more true wlth respect  to  crop
vields than other farmine activities suovorted bw the orolect.
Rice vields in all three of the land consolidation areas were
actuallm lower after tne orolect than before.   Similarl.  farmers
in the areas served bv the non-soecified lending comoonent of the
loan were earnint little or no more income from croo oroduction
after the loan when comoared to the situation beforehand.
Althouch the decline or lack of increase in vields was in man.v
cases comoensated for elsewhere in the household econonmv the fact
remains that the oblective of increasinc the oroductivitv of
croDs  was not achieved.   This is an imoortant shortcoming.  and
BAAC is lookint closelv at the reasons for it.
6.06     One clear examsle of this oroblem is the high orocortion
of  sub-loans orovided for the ourchase of draft animals.  mainlv
for rice oroduction. Technicallv. branch managers are correct to
issue term loans for non-consumable items such as draft animals:
however from a develosmental roint of view the oractice in this
case  is  auestionable.    The  use  of  draft  animals  is  well
established in Thai acriculture. and it is unlikelw that loans
which simDlv allow farmers to continue existine oractices will
lead to increases in oroductivitv. Moreover farmers In the North



- 66 -
and Northeast of Thailand tvoicallm bu.v buffaloes at the start of
the &mricultuval year. use themI mainlY for field oreoaration. &nd
sell them at the end the croo .ear.   Therefore if farmers borrow
to busv draft animals. short term oroduietion loans would seem to
be more aoDroorlate than the medium and lone term loans financed
b.v this orolect.
6.07      This  is  a  serious  ooint  whicn  raises  fundamental
auestions for BAAC about t,i wav in which lone term loan officers
at the branch level aopraise applicattons for small-sized medium
and long term loans or the sort financed by this project. In the
context of this particular project it is disturbing also that
little was done to follow the guidelines for non-specified
lencing included in the appraisal report and initial loan
utilisation plan.
6.08       The  shortage  of  evidence  concerning   productivit.v
increases  also  raises another set of questions related  to  the
evaluation of BAAC's general lending programme.   BAAC  routinelY
evaluates  farm  productivity and Income changes  within  special
proJects,  and  for certain narrowly defined categories of  loans
outside  special project areas.   However there is no  comparable
evaluation of the general lending programme. which comprises the
great   maJority   of  BAAC's  lending  operations   each   Year.
Evaluations   are  in  terms  of  the  bank's  own   performance,
particUlarly  with  respect  to  loan  recoverY.    BAAC  has  no
swatematLc   procedures   for  monitoring  changes   in   farming
practice*,   productivity  or  income  levels  among  its  client
farmers,    Given   that  the  bank0s  ob.lective  is   to   raise



- 67 -
ploductivity and income leveLs amone client farmers the lack of a
moans of measuring progress towards that obJective is a serious
weaness which DAAC will, take steps to correct.



- 68 -
Tables
1  Loan utilization plan
2  Revised loan utilization plan
3 Disbursement of IBRD Loan number 1816 - TH
4  Non-specified lending: disbursement by,type of proauct
5 Non-specified lending: disoursement by loan purptse
*        6  Numbers of beneficiaries of sub-loans
7 Non-lending componenT
8  Statistical hlghli:hts. fiscal years 1979 - 1983
9 Sources of BAAC operating funds. 1979 - 1983
10 BAAC's loan recovery performance. 1979 - 1983
41 BAAC comparative income statements, 1979/80 - 1983/4
t2 BAAC comparative balance sheet. 1979/80 - 1983/l
13 .rcome and expenditure in three iand consolidation proJects
1L Shrimp culture project: production, income and expenditure
15 Giant prawn proJect: production. income and expendlture
16 Non-specified lending: income and expenditure. Lampang and
Sakon NaKhon



- 69 -
table 1
Loan Utlistlon Plea
..ND Loan      contribution   v@tl leadin1
w~to -                                       -              -   -il,^1Ll
million   ilion   _    II,.  lU.om   Iliom .II
lOA n omat      270.00   13.50  .84  20.91 11.197 4".91  24.697
(1)  ecifie.iledimg    16.62    8.48  .69  136.7      , 0.9  38.40  15.569
- os-ar  dael
usalit            143.00   ' 7.15  .64  117,0  6.00  210.00  13.150
- arlw  cature       20.46   1.022 6.95   16.7  0.037   37.20  1.859
-oil plea
de      t       .   .1    0.306 2.10    S.0  0.252  11.20   0.56
(2) n-spectfied.
.    lending             100.36    5.02 415   82,1  4.108 162.51   9.128
- Sekywar dety
d.v.lopmmmt         6.76    0.34 2.31    5.5  0.277  12.29  0.617
- New villap
devel6pmeat        13.67    0.69 4.69   IIJ3  0.56    25.22  1.258
- orchard ftvelop-
mat                33.00    1.65 1.22   27.0  1.350  60.00   3.000
- Pesb fab ml       27.50    1.X3  9.39   22.   1.12S  50.00  2.50S
- os-voing two
lendin             19.25    0.96 6.53   15.7  0.7,   35.00  1.748
.am-ening 11omoent    24.00    1.20 6.16                     24.00  1.200
.      (1) Cosmultant          15.12    0.76 5.17    _    _          S.22   0.760
.     (2) T'aiing aNW
I  feleahip             8.88    0.44 2."      _              8.88   0.40
greed Tot"         294.00   14.70 100   220.91 11.197  514.91  25.897



- 70 -
Table 2
Reided LoSO Us. Plan
2530 Loan      Coutrlbution       totl
a       us           B       us    B       Us
million   Ilion      Million  111 milli  million
Leading OaComent      345.34  15.11  97.49 282.S2  12." 627.86   U7.7?
(1)oifed leading   13.26   0.58  3.74  10.82  .0.63 24.08    1.21
- 0.-ta  deeo.
meat               8.66   0.38  2.45  7.08   0.31  15.74    0.69
_.  rimp cuture     4.60   0.20   1.29  3.74   0.32  6.34    0.52
(2) Marisp.eaitied
leAdLn            332.08   14.53 93.75 271.7   12.03 603.78   26.j6
- Glaat praw
g     promotiOn          0.24   0.01   0.07  0.2    0.tS   0.4       0.16
lending*         331.64  14.52 93.C 271S  It.-  603.34   26.40
i oN-leoAdig Cmpo- 
seat                    9.10   0.39  2.51           _       .0 0.39
I (1) conultant          5.67   0.24   1.55  _       _      5.67    0.21.!
(2) TralMng &a
5'tllowmh1P         3.32   0.15  0.96  -        -      3.32    O.l
Grand lot"        .35.44  15.50 100   262.52   1.66 645.95   28.16
An aditioaal aount of $ 600,000 was obtains  frm unallocated aompouent
of the proced of the Loan.



-71 -
Table 3
Disbursement of ,SU  Loan No. 1816-TN
.              1198081      1962       1983     1914      TotSl
ztm       a~~~ . US   a    us   a    Us  a  Us   a   us
.- .       mil  mi- m1l] -        I-- 6   101-    I-
1Lim  lion  lin lion lia  lie lion l   1 a I
48.1  )    45.6       5.36 \ 0.8 )    100%)
t<dtmq.con.nt   165.4  7.28 1583 6.895 18.5  0.81 2.99 0.11 45   15.12
(1)    i 1  l1n-
di"              6.9  0.30  6.Z8 0.28  -    -   -         13.a6 0.f
- OD-tarm deve-
lInnt          3.0 0.13 5.66 0.25          _             8.67 0.
-  WU  cu3lture  3.9 0.17 0.62 0.03         _-    4.59 0.20
(2) NOU-SPOCIfld
lending        158.5 6.98 1520 6.615 18.5*  0.61 .99 .13 32.1  14."
- Giant Pzaen
Promotio       0.1  0.00  0.14 0.005 -    _              0.24 0.01
- on-going tem
dIng          15.4 6.96 152M 6.61  18.52  0.81 .99 .13 31.S7 14.5
holeing              0.6  0.03  4.02 0.17  2.90 0.13 1.52 .06 9.10 0.3
(1) COOaMtAnt        0.  0.03 2.51 0.10   1.70 0.08 .79 .03 5.66 0.1
(2)  i i             .
ftllowebp        _   _    1. 50 0.07  1.20 0.65 .74 ..03 3.4  o. 1i
Gran total      166.1 7.31 1623 7.065 21.42 0.94 .51 ..19 5.4 15.51
47.16 L)   *s.5 )    6.06     ( .2  )    100%)
S 10-.000 S i to be withdrawn from the left-og   nallocated amut.



- 72 -
Table 4    kou-swcified iev^iiq: Loans bv ptcouct and rgiot, sisail ftarrts &;.4 a!; faraees t.OO ht
KiThER9 F0GION                     1iuTWEAST RE0;ia                  NORTH OD N4ORThEAST
Pnoeuct 5 tmr Amount lot for Aseust St trr Aeount Tet for Maount $S far AuTitt Tot for Aavint
PRze   13614  1575!    Mt8OB  2?779O    1965   77M3    16;:5  1t0131   2'.581  235412   38713  s2-P21
; vestok    ^|)5eo  2:d36    2756   32M3         2852   2477      63 23   60;78    d4q5   47211    907q  'I'71
~aisi      74,    ?,lt    1478   14452       100      894      !?4    liED      945    6i08    1622    6240
TG*,aCco   ;W-)     Z wto   756    8337       104    1160      164    i843       724    7763      120   10'i813
Po..t    ai;Q  -;Ol        .13   10877       73      933      124    1628      512    9944      3T   12505
8.gar cane      115    1459      221    2974        60      462      '1      C,4      .15    1q21       316    3p;2
0aicac        6   ~54.3       119    1134       112     9Bt      179    2!1        177    1i524     198    315
,ortoa       75     648    1I8    1480          t0    d8d       106      957      135    108'      246    2450
ker-af      11     312       V7      829       73     555      119    IC62       114     867      20s    18;1
1eans      289    '-F,74    40i    493         i 3    630      167    W4(        .372    3304     636    5348
i'e!teaD.ts   ~85(    i741       Q09  O1363        26b    1614      676    3427    1117   15i55        W55   15i92
p0oqiry       d2     457       90      d         o:     622      118    1St4       103    107T      208    2Si&
rish     59       597      i       Iob     l.5  142    1411   306    3623      178    200e       412    4468
rither      65     533    1I0        963       54     417       94       I5      119    1012    1194    187
------------------------------------------------_-,-------------__-------_---__--------_------,------------
TOTAL   1i17   221977417  2D620  368679   11006  !13043   155!2  234673   33277  M327M0   55212  bo-332
laDis 4a   Nort-specttiea  Le;s.no: loans by predutt and region, small farmers and all termers (000 dollars)
NORTHElR. RE6104                   NORTHEAST REMION                   hORTH AND NOPTHEUST
Product Sm for Amount tot tfr Aoouot Be tar Asoupt Tot Wa7 Amount go far Amount Tot for Aizur.t
Rice   13616    6976   21808   12278    9°55    3450   i6925   6o49   23581   1042$   387313  18947
Livestack    203        994    2756    1435    2852    1097    6323    21701    49d                  907      4133
Maize     845      319    1448       6iO      100      40                73 T9   rS      359    1622       719
Tobacco      6       2L 272   756      369       N       51 Sl   !b4       82      7 4     3d4       )o      431
r uit     4'9      . 37     o13      482       73      41      liC       72     572      440       37      554
Suga'  cane     '  5      65      221     132       60       29       95      40      17?       85     3!6    1i7
C.;sava       61       24     119       so      112      43      .7        97      174       b      2v        d17
.ttan       75       29      l18        t      to      1:9      108      42      i         48      246     106
Kenaf       41      14       87       37       7?     ,25      119       47      1i       38      2066      84
Reefn     289      li8      469      219       53      28      16'       62     312      Id6      6X6      281
Vegetai;les     850      431      909     d5?      267       80     06       240    1117       5!2    ,i65      7i0
p4ultry       42      20        0       44       6L      v8    118         90 1s3            9      ' a8     125
Fis       St       26      106       55     142       i.      306      16Ib    103       S;      -12      '1l
oter        65      24      100       43       54      21       94       4       li9      45      !l4       83
TC;AL   i973    97?2   29620   16328   1400b    50G6   25i92   U0KU    33279   !,'7   !5212   26721
---------- _------ -----------------  -------- _-------- ---------__    _ --_ - -----_   ---------- -------_ -----__ -



- 73 -
~eie l^tn-steca+.e4 lendi-tg: .o;es oy ;u*Xsc Dv reg'cn, sns'i *arpters a": ?i1 £atlers ;3Cti 8,t~
.0RTiUERN REGI.-.                   NU0TREAST REGION                     UT74 AW  4lT)I(A3T
Purpose  Sa far  Aeoutt Tot tfo   Asoint  St far  Asovft Tot for  AsO:nt  ig fSi-  eo0Lnt Tor "P? A' o-n,
Draft !qleal i2i? ?t:,               13 Ii9 1    M5t4   625i4   i4i;  1'14240 .Ol i731 : .                 79'. .3 417!
preed,ix animal    1;69   ',;74       :'65   1'3i       133    I537-      3'di   3531    ::-cl2   2?76    314   1v4i
Lar ic i         iOrCv  O81i   1J32°    2'54   ;V678  1%i    3435       71     664:      15.   .476         7-0   3n;,
.aid lease      71. I:o8         14f2   22965        4S      '52       81    83'        73     ! '201)    !42;   23M7
Land acquisitrl      940    e822    i687   46842         410    5o6    ?3,    172,77          ¢0   i238c      t 2675   641'Th
Uater :teXrov      ¶91    504'3      801    M71        *01      40W2     jl      30t3    7?2    65C0)    1!94  Ii24L
tr!it lsrov        ;49    4676       IO7    5479        4!      5i        ^         `04    24    '.1;        3i2   6'41
Curaqg plant       I .    111!       1.31     52        71      *% 19 04         1;;       1'3        1-     2''   ,c ,,
Fars G.: : l a      43l I  tO50    2496   38.80         528    4i38        3 3    8116    1967   25a8    3i1?   4c J4
Ptq/Ien bida        b6      q,4      110    1t5V        83    15o4       164    4v2'       19    2463        :a       M911
3torage b;dg       i71    2830         3    t292       121      980      246    246        3;      3u'0     'i9      3718
tattle ralsinq       758    3061       106   M350        i64      9'7    2473   20S2q    '6b2   ;3038    3579   34135
Pi7 raising        50     t5         80    9V,6        83      5        1.S     2j70 0     3     .43        223    3006
Fishoon4       60       I1    103    "T6          to,    1014       240   "391       ! S   1665         345  '4
Tillei'.tractor    1144   20532       1 "2   3"72        i5 2r 60          2 i    37¶I    !2;9   273q2   2475   4301
Tral!er      113    :1376      1?    2312         51      881      Ill      639       lb'    2257      294    4451
siiUing *c;les        22      208       50      535       36      40.      h16    2.11        5?      610      136    2%96
PcCk-0   cruck       5       5C00     10'      2s7I      42      334       i3    1353        C!      842      200    e6`2
Fare mechine       539    V190    1006   15428         l0S      7%       181   2*06        c-C      61!5   1i57   17454
Omer       !26    '394       6 6    S0Cd       207    1'19       -14    226        733    451'    1010    7.9;
19273  215705   2962')  38678   1400-6  113041   255!  ;3441'   Z374  3'27c6    >'212  o'348
Table Sa       Ncn-sDecified lenoing: Loans 5y pu"pose ay region. small farmers ani a:i farmers (QQ, doliars)
:iRTWERN REGION                     NORTHEAST REG1ON                    hG,TH ANiD  ORThiCiT
Poroose  So fte  Amoa7t Tot fir  ^uoint  So t4r  Atoant Tot far  Aeourt  Ss isr  Aoo.:ot Tet fpr  Aftoeun;
Zraft annal    q2 3?    354i   13323    5311    8r4 6              7?2   iad9.    ;53M  17.lM    ri.3   :7i2i   Iv37
B rinj anlo4i    U12i         5   : 565         767    1833       662    "'49      :M       31.      1t: .  ..  '         .
I  tan7o ICwrOV  l8i      50o:   1205      104i      421       152      711      2;4    1`92       59',    277C    1Z43
Land lIase      713      5.16    140r    t017        dS        16       81       '7      798      5"      14      I s-    1034
Land acouisitr.      940    105:    !687  ir   4         410      207      488  7c6   :'50    1i.9.   2t75    263s
water  inorev      591      ^i4      801      'I'      201       62      394      I.6      ?92      22       1;4      4'4
!   griit imsprov  249      207      307      243       45       24       3K       47      ;h       2'1      '2i      290
Cauroq ;lant       102       .v      ;3:       68       71       4%      iu4       59     -j3        39      23 5     Ih
*  'arm buzidino   1h;9      qs    23%        16i3v    528       2i05     823;     359 i7    6      1138    32:       " ,55
Pog/nan hldg        6b       41      1v10      73       8        68      164      1;l     1 c ~             r74      2t4
Storage oltd       271      1.5      513      2";      121       d3      246      110      3        't       'r;      389
*  atle r aisin3     758$     357    1lOf       '2:3     i04      .0    2147;       414     I o.      soo6   157       i0l2
Pa  ralsir.9       5$      ;1       $0       4:       *3      4;>      i         4i   2  133       66      228      13.
IL      i03      'I       152       ti      i0       1 2?     16:       14      ;.1s     '79
T1i:v,Tpactor       M144      7oi   1:q2    IL31         153      :27      281      254      2iJ     :36    .22,       1;i
Talr i;3 6i i 1                1; 8               50       39       l        W7      io3  '     50      i;;
*AiU:1n  m:hne;       22        j       50       26       36       .S      106       it       53       27       5b      i.s
'Itt-UD  trctk       53       i2      105       57       42       i5       C5     .0         iS      37 '      0       it7
rarm machine       8i9      37q    i0)       07        i05       35      1         4i      e4       '35     ;'?       773
Other      5,6      137      j96      22      .207       k       314               7'3      2-00    11        ' 33
19273    9732   2e:0    I 3.2  1400   )6 so              ;    1M39    :32:;   14'*   35!      2    2)72 ;j-
------------    ------------------------   . ---------_-_,-----------_  -----_ --__ --__ -----------_ ---    ------_ --_ -----



- 74 -
Table 6
Number of Beneficiaries Subloana
Beneficiaries    Disbufrsed from          Average
Item                 Subloans           IBRD              size of loan
______s_____ B    us_
No                   mil-    1Baht                 us
No.   , % million llion            BatU
Lending Component          55,669 1100 345.34  15.12   100    11,506.50    501.81
(1) Specified Lending         430   0.77  13.26 |0.58  3.83    64,233.77   2,807.42
- On-farm development     376   0.67   8.67 | 0.38  2.51      41,932.26   1,835.11
- Shrimp atxlture          54   0.10  4.59  0.20   1.32   216,981.69  9,454.54
(2) Non-specified lending  55,239   99.23 332.11  14.54   .17    11,047.94    483.71
- Giant prawn promo-
tion                     27   0.05   0.24   0.01   0.07    137,142.96   5,714.29
- on-going term lending 55,212   99.18 331.87  14.53   .10    10,991.06    481.22
Non-lending Component          62    -    9.10  0.39   -               -          _
(1) Consultant                  2    -    5.66  0.24    -          2,764,800  120,o00
(2) Training & Fellowship      60  | _    3.44  0.15   -              57,850    2X500
;   Grand Total             _    _.354.44 115.51 | -
These are the total loans in which BAAC's contributed amounts are included.



- 75 -
Tablo 7
Morn - ?aIIGConlpe 1t
N_                     Prowrams         gebt        US.
I.Cansuitant.
1.Mr. David N ailt.                 _           3,266,255.03  141,722.02
2.Nr. Robin U Sickley               _           2,400,664.60  103,768.92
8S - total A.                             5,666,939.63  245,510.94
B.Mdvance DOW"e BobolarELMp
I Ar. 11dripbong ?angterAausa Agri-busiusa        244,399.16  10,619.74
2.Mr. Chatchanm  kaiong                           242,051.93  10,517.7
3.1r.  iphodachal atakwra                         273,156.71   11t,75.66
4.Cm. Banmor  Kajoruokui1            *            272,603.50  11 ,651 .61
5. ia macbums bivwebrcavat  Dev. Com0i4-          251,642.29  10,965.07
tiom
6.Miss Tuptia Sauag - juak                            -
7.Win. Vartra. Toatbireat     Dsiussa Admils._    1S9.135.51   6,921.76
C.Ovd_ee Trainings FruweiPs
I.M. Virasek Sirlkwi          APACA' 82            33,361.43   1,452.22
2.Nisa Tuptm kn-)juck                6             361973.20   1,701.74
3.1Wr.   u  Sirassms                               27,666.20   1,206.12
4441es Patra TeraUiirarat                          27,68.20    1,208.12
5Sar. kr1t Dejpinid           Israel' 2           143,102.60   6,216.99
6.Nr.  dwh  ackalt             qgland' 82         344,729.09  14,952.27
7.Stmdy Group of 22 SMO       tluosla 62          521,766.90  22,675.30
officers. (DU/&W)
B. 2 offices                  a' 8-                                -
9. 4 officers                 APRAC&' 83          124,044.90   5,423.43
1O.ObAy Group of 21 3aMC       V.Garmay- 83        610,86S.09  26,539.16
Offiers (DS5AMa)
ftb - total ( + C)                        3,31S,148.70  144,136.96



- 76 -
Name                Program               h           US.
D.   rwde___
1.Monitoring & Evaluation of         _                 _
Agricultural Development
Projects Training Workshop
2.APRACL  ExazAg Program..                        127,s507      4,697.24
in 196 4
3.DSC/RC Study Visit                 _                              -
Prograim
- total D                                 127s,507      4,697.24
S.Unallocated                                                          -
grand Ibtal                _              9,109,595.33  394,347.14
(a + a + C + 0 + E)



- 77 -
Table 8
Statistical  qighligts.
Fiscal yer, 1979-1983
uait : million baht
Average
Item| 1979  1980   1981   1982   1963    Grwt
Rat.
1. Capital fund             1,920  2,037   2,182   2,290   2,427     6.03
2. Liabilities             12,567 16,301  17,868  18,819  20,635    12.02
3. Hot profit                  75    B8    132    167    195    29.07
4. Total Assets            14,541 18,427  20,182  21,277  23,257    11.44
S. Loan disbrsenat to       5,936  5,950  8,001   8,959  10,802    17.43
Individual farws
6. Loan disursemnt to       1,854  2,245   2,S77   2,783   2,605     9.36
Agri Cooperative
7. Loan disbursemnt to        16S    90      81      57      43   - 26.99
Fat *Association
-  -    -     ~     ~      A-



-78 -
Table 9
Smure of Fund and Ratio of Capital
Fund, 1979 - 1983.
1979      1980       1961       1962       1963
smuze        'Amount    AuOun An                        Amouni
(mil  5   (nmil  5   (mil-      (mill     (mil-       a
lion       lion       lion      lion      lion        S
baht       baht)      baht       baht)    baht)
1.0wn capital Fund  1,920 1327 2,037 1.11 2,182  08 2290 105 2,428 10653  6.0
2.Deposits fro  te  1,990 1376 2,301 2155 3,221 107 3,318 tS72 4,785 2175 24.53
general public
3.D.posits from    6,401 4425 7,187  .19 8,181 400 8,641 4494 9,018 3910  8.95
coorio bank
4.Eorrowings        1,414 977 2,03 I.09 2,451  223 2,905 1377 3.331 1445 23.90
S.P-missory notes  2 ,S0 t1128 4,500 454 3,500 IU  3,500 16,  3,000 1300   4.66
(DOT)
6.0there             2421 it7   279 152  513  2-56  452  2.14  500 217  19.90
Total        14461100 88,339 100 20,050 100 21,109 100 23,063 100  12.37
Interest paid in    6.3S i -  6.63   _  7.26   _  7.91   _  7.60   _
proportion to ovor-
ago of operating fund
.    ,I  .i.J__   - -  -
-    Footnote  : 1. Adjustmet made regarding the provision  for exwihano
rate fluctuations on consignmnta with DOT of 31 million
baht
2. Includes the provision for exchane rate fluctuation on
conouigmnto with BOT of 172 million baht



- 79 -
*Table 10
BAAC' 8 Loan Re¢overy Performmnce
percentage
Item                 1979     1980       1981      1982     1983
Individual clients
short-term loan                79.2       80.1     78.3     76.3      77.7
medium-term loan               65.2       65.8     60.9     56.8      58.2
long-term loan                 66.9       68.9     65.2     65.5      67.3
Farmers' Institutions
Repayments by fanmers
Co-operatives                40.4       44.9     43.9    44.2       46.0
Fareers, associations        32.4       35.3     34.2     29.2      33.8
Repayments by institutions
to 8AAC:
Co-operatives                86.3       83.0     76.3     90.1     101.0
Fermerso associations         n.a        n.a    110.3    111.7     111.6
Repayments by institutions to BAAC as a percentage of repayMsnt by
farmers tO theinstitutions.



Table 11
eAAC:  Coarative Income Statements 1978/79 to 1983/84
(5 million)
1979/1980   1960/1981   1981/1982   1962/1983   1963/1984
income
Interest earned on :
Loans to cooperatives and association        347         369         453          538         sIB
Lans to individual farmer                    856       1,036        1,264       1,608       1,916
Deposits                                     207         283          462         420         240
Goverament boad                               68          87           87          60         110
misacllaneous income                                4           7           27          45          30
total                                 1,482       1,782       2,293       2,671        2,814
Epnses
Interest paid on
Borrowings                                   130          81          143         204         214
Deposits - General public                    177         216          313         338         406
- Coercial banks                    558         791         937        1,086       1 ,059
Administrative expenses                           320         475          550         765         711
Provision for bad debt                            222         131         218          110         229
Total                                 1,407       1,694       2,161        2.503       2,619
Net income                               75          88         .132         168         195



Table 12
BAAC : Comparative Balance Sheet, 1978/79 - 1983/84
(B million)
Actual
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Assets
Cash on hand and due from Banks                              3,838      5,035     6,353     5,709     4,459
Government bond & notes payable                                 .80     1,825        59       -       1,734
Other                                             ;              34       111       136       183        42
Subtotal                                      3,952     6,971     6,548     5,892     6,235
Loans to cooperatives                                        3,263      3,615     4,098     4,156     3,791
Loans to farmers associations                                  464        415       362       330       294        1
Accrued interest                                                37         47        45        44        49
Laes : Provision for doubtful debt                            (431)     (S05)     (531)     (521)     (513)
Institutional Loans Outstanding                           3,333     3,572     3,968      4,009     3,621
Loans to individual farmers                                  6,944     7,317      8,993    10,454    12,331
Accrued inte we'.t                                             468        549       745       968     1,223
Less : Provision for doubtful debt                            (339)     (396)     (582)     (709)     (945)
Individual Loans Outstanding                              7,037     7,470     9,156    10,713    12,609
Fixed assets ledd depreciation                                 183        243       310       454       598
Provision for exchange rate fluctuation                        -          171       200       209       194
Ibtal Asente                                 14.s41    18,427    20,182    21,277    23,257



Liabilities and Equity                                               I919/80   1980/61   1981/82   1982/83   t983/64
Liabilities
Saving deposits                                                   509        510     1,013      1,276     1,910
Tine deposits                                                   1,445      1,791     2,205      2,038      2,070
Other depoosts                                                     36        -            3         4          4
Deposits from comercial banko                                   6,401      7,187     8,181      8,641      9,018
Other liabilities                                                 133        137        317       352        213
Accrued interest payable                                          109        142       227        272        288
Subtotal                                                0,633      9,767    11,946    12,583    14,303
DOT rediscount                                                  2,500      4,500     3,500      3,500      3,000
Long-term borrowing                                             1,413      2,034     2,422      2,737      3,332
Total Liabilities                                      12,546    16,301    17,868    18,820    20,635
Equity
Paid-up capital                                                 1.,490     1,541     1,605      1,605      1,605
Reserves                                                           S7         57         57        57         57
Accumulated profit                                                448        440        520       628        765
Unappropriated profit                                             -           a8       132        167        195
Total Equity                                             1,995     2,126      2,314      2,457     2,622
Total Liabilities and Equity                           14,541    18,427    20,182    21,277    23,257
b/
Estimated current ratio                                               4.2:1      4.9:1      3.5:1      3.4:1     2.6:1
Total debt/equity                                                     6.3:1      7.7:1      7.7:1     7.7:1      7.9:1
a/ The averdge during the year is substantially lower than shown here.  This is because the CBS deposit their funds
between December and March and BAAC deposits them back with the CBS temporarily until funds are needed for loan
disbursements in the spring.
b/ Current Assets includes an estimate of loans maturing within one year and current liabilities excludes interbank
deposits.



- 83 -
2able 13  ?xbon at -n'ha land consolidation project (Deht)
19XO-81  Adjuotment              19B3-4  % lncreaos
for                      or decrease
*                 .ainflation *
Term ARcom                 23,540       26,300               24,883       - 5
Farsing expnses             9,664       10,819               10,696       - 1
not fam iacom              13,856        15,480              14,187       - 8
Mon-form inom.             10,170        11,362              18,366         62
Not household income       24,026       26,843               32,553        22
Hbusbold expenses          12,586       14,061               22,070        57
Savings                    11,440       12,781                7,150      - 44
Phranonchaksri lend consolidation project
1980_81  Adjustment             19B3-84  % incrao
for                     or decrease
inflation *
Farm Income                23,834       26,628               39,146          47
Farming expenses            9,249       10,333               18,632          S0
Not farm iAcome            14,586        16,296              20,514          26
Mon-farm mnoat.            13,115        14,652              20,787          42
Not hosehold inco.         27,701       30,948               41,301          33
Household expnses          13,146       14,687              27,858           90
savings                    14,555       16,261               13,4b3        - 17
Teabon Singh land consolidation project
1980401  Adjustment             1983-44  % inereas
for                     or decrease
inflation *
_________ __.______---_--_---------------------------------r------------  -------
arm incom                  26,381       29,474               41,182          40
Farming expensea            9,004       10,060               19,147          90
Net farm income            17,377        19,414              22,036          14
Nan-farm income            11,776       13,157               16,573          26
Hot household income       29,153       32,571               38,609          19
busebold expnses           10,330       11,541               20,722          s0
Savings                    18,823       21,030               17,887        - 15
* tbe consuamers price index increased from 168.9 (1981) to 188.7 (1984)



- 84 -
-table 16  Pwou*$ton.  tIncmand eigranpitu-es for the  *h
VQd.e. ocoe  1963 to SepteMber 1966
Ta- et          Aetual
f b f  n    ~  ~  -- - -- - - -- - -- ---- n--- - -
Cultlvatd m   pewr household        2              25.5
Shrim  pwodueso.  pew rat           60              56.7
uShr    pwo.duti.s per hh   (kg) 1.500           1.697
ShrIp Vu'ZeO per k                  70              55.7
iaom   r   shrimps   etily 105.000              83.375
oseX eVam bu-pw@Gueta                -           6.676
lsoft  looms toShims           105.000          87. 849
'Other tam  I.ON                     -           9.61?
Wor-fam laeme                                    9.646
_oa  ara   oms106. 711
p 0ee           bnflffisf
him urduetlem **oto             37,000         39 227
Other team *upSo                    -           5 , 735
Netoasld exp"ene                                36.145
met i*cime trem  brlmps         66.000          68.622
Pat income tm _aewiulture                       52,306
not  @uaehld aurlus                             27-.604
___________________ __________________ __________ -___O___



- 85 -
Table 15
Production income and exDenditures of
th  Giant Prawn Prootion Proj gt
Production                                       Targ-t           Actual
survival rate                                      30%               14%
cultivated areas per hh (rai)                         4                3.85
prawn production per hh (kg.)                          -             216.28
prawn production per rai (kg.)                       120              63
prawn price per kg. Cbaht)                          120             153
Income
income from prawn per rai (baht)                 14,400            9,712
income from prawn per family (baht      .        S7,600           34,189
average profit from prawn production              6,900            2,317
other farm income (baht)                               -          12,304
non-farm income   (baht)                               -          12,918
total gross incom  (baht)                              -          59,411
Epnses
pr&wn production cost per rai                        325             607
total prawn production cost                      30.000           28,508
(7500 bahtlrai)
other farm expenses (baht)                             -           6,446
household expenses  (baht)                            -           21,394
Net incom
net income from prawn (beht)                           -           5,681
net income from other farm (baht)                      -           S,858
net incom (baht)                                       -          24,457
net household surplus (baht)                           -           3,063



- 86 -
....... .   .n-,:itied lending: chages during the l;jn perid
Before           January             Per@at
the              1965                oha"
loon
LANPMG   (89 farmer)
__________________________ _________________________ _____________________--    __
Income from crops              12,532             12,580                  .38
Incme  ua  livestock                3,857              9,740               152.53
otol fam income                16,389             22,320                36.19
Farming  xpenses               3,681              4,535                23.20
Not farm income              12,708             17,785                39.95
Non-farm income               2,756              3,982                b.48
Not houehold incom                15,464             21,767                40.76
lusehold  expenes                4,428              6,051                36.65
Sarplus              11,036            15.716                42.41
. -  --  -------------------------------------------------  -  --  ---  - --_
WED  NAKHDN  t176 farmers)
--a==_ ____ ____  ___  ____  ____ ____  ___  ____  ____  ____  ___ __-_  _____-_
Incom  from crops               9,512              8,534              - 10.28
Income trao  livestock              2,X29              5,285               117.58
Total farm income              11,941             13,819                15.73
Farming expnses                3,310              3,814                15.23
Not farm incom                8,631             10,005                15.92
Non-farm incom.               6,325             12,138                91.91
Nnt household inome               14,956             22,143                48.05
HDUehold expenses                5,784              7,547                30.48
arplus               9,172             14,596                59.14
----------------------------------    ----------------- v__



- 87 -
First Aaricultural Credit ProiectL     g& lna& no & = _THs
addendum I&  the Proiect Comoletion Raerrt
1.   Pvoiet costs   Table 2 of the PCR summarises the use of the
tPRD loan, together with the BAAC contribution.  The farmers also
contributed to the projects supported by these loans, at a rate
assumed at appraisal to be 17 percent ot the lending component of
the total project co.t. Table Al, attached, shows the total cost
of the project, including amounts from IBRD, BAAC, and the
farmers themselves.
2.      l  J3ina  bv  reflon.  1980-1984   Table 42  shows  the
amounts lent by BAAC as medium- and long-term loans in each
region, from the first year of disbursements under the project up
to the most recent financial year.   As a matter of general  BAAC
policy there has been a relative increase in the importance of
long-term loans, with little increase in medium-term lending.
Taking   both   categories   of  term   loans   together,   total
disbursements increased by 149 percent over this period; the
rates  of  increase were highest in the North (177  percent)  and
Northeast (162 percent), the two wegions where most sub-loans
financed by World Bank funds were disbursed.
3.  Analysis  o   sub-loans    Tables 4/4(a) and  5i5(a'  of  the
Project Ccmpletion Report do not include an anplysis ot the firal
transfer ot funds, am-unting to 44,212,900 Baht, or approximately
*1.65  million.    Revv-ed  tables  including  this  amount   are
attached,  Tables  A3  and  A4.   In preparing these  tables  two
different  Bant  - Dollar exchange rates were lisea    a  rate  of
22.a5 Baht per Dollar for the period up to November 19$d   and  a



rate of 27.198 Baht per Dollar for all later transactions.
4.   Paddy  XyeL&s in the lan  consolidation areas   Table 13  of
the PCR summarises changes in income among farmers included in
the three land-consolidation areas where sub-loans were provided
under  this project.   As noted in the text (paragraphs 5.01  and
b-OS),   the  disappointing results in these three areas are  due
largely to the tact that the land-consolidation measures did not
bring  about  the  expected  increases  in  paddy  yields.    The
principal problems asseciated with these areas are discussed in
pdragraph 5.02 of the PCR.
Attention is drawn in particular to the yield figures
included in paragraph 5.01, page 19, and the siatement ir
paragraph 6.05,  page 29:   "Rice yields in all three of the land
consolidation areas were actually lower after the project than
before." The following points are intended to elaborate on this
statement.
The analysis of changes in the paddy yields depends on
estimates of yields both before the land-consolidation was
implemented,  and  afterwards.   It should be noted that no y1eld
figures were collected specifically in these three areas before
the start of the project. In the PCR the before-project ielid is
estimated  at 400 kgs per rai,  or 2.5 tons  peir  hectare.   This
figure is based on two sourcest a survey of the farmers carried
out after implementation of the project, ir which farmers were
asked what their paddy yields had been before the project; area
iigures provided by the Office of Agricultural Economic2.   OAE'3
estimates of the actual yield for transplanted rice for this p¢-t



- 89 -
of the Chao Phrava basin were 479 kgs/rai in 1977, 320 kgs/rai in
1978, and 429 kgs/rai in 1979. The tigure used in the PCR,
400 kgs/rai, can be regarded as a reasonaole estimate of before-
project yields, to serve as a point of comparison for the post-
project period; however it is clear from the above figures that
yields varied tonsiderably from year to year.   Moreover about 10
percent of the farmers within the three land-consolidation
practiced broadcast cultivation methods before the project,
because their fields were too deeply flooded for them to
transplant their rice; yields from broadcasting are normally 25 -
30 percent lower than yields from transplanted rice.
For the post project period we have data for only the one
agricultural year,  1983-84.   This was a year in which there was
extensive   flooding   within   the   land-consolidation   areas,
particularly in the areas which had been left below the level  of
the  drainange system built as part of the project.   Yields  may
have been lower than normal because of this floodinq.
Moreover an over-all evaluation of these project areas must
take account of total rice production, as well as of yield per
rai.    An  important benefit of the project was that it  enabled
farmers to grow rice in the dry season, which was not possible
before the project.   As noted in the PCR,  irrigation watar  for
dry season crepping is avallable only in alternate years; t983-84
was one of those years in Phranonchaksr, and Tambon Singh, but
not  in  Sawaengha.  In the years wnen dry-season 'irigation  wa-
possible  about  60 percent of the farmers nade use  of  it,  rnJ
according  to  our survey those farmers achieved  yields  of   _
kgs/rai in Phranonchaksri and 575 kgs/rai in Tambon Singn. These



- 90 -
yields are well below the dry-season target of 700 k:gs/rai;
nevertheless in these two areas income from dry season cropping
more  than  compensated  for the  apparentl;  reduced  wet-seasor,
yields, resulting in annual farm incomes 47 and 40 percent
respectively above pre-project levels (see Table 1U3 of the PCR).
When the extra ircome from dry-season cropping is not present, as
in Sawaengha in 1983-84, the average annual income from farming
is, according to our survey, lower than it was before the
project.
We have no irformation concerning post-project yields in
years other than 1983-84.   However,   because of flooding in the
wet  season it is likely that rice production in all '..se  three
areas in 1983-84 was somewhat less than in other years.  Moreover
although  a few farmers were directly damaged by the poor quality
of  the land-levelling under the project,  it is also  true  that
others were certainly getting better y:Rlds as a result of the
project, even in 1983-84. On the other hand although farmers in
Phranonchaksri  and  Tambon  Singh  benefitted  from   dry-season
production in 1983-84, they can expect income trom that source
only every other year.
In summary, a.though the land consolidation projects have
not brought about the expected increases ir, paddy vields, and at
least in the agricultural year 1983-84 seem to have led to an
actual  decrease in average wet-season yields,   the availability
of dry-season cropping in alternate years has nevertheless
resulted in a net increase in the total production of paddy.



- 91 -
5.   Draft animalLj   The PCR notes that loans for the purchase of
draft animals accounted for 40 percent of the loans ire the non-
specified  categories  of lending.   The following notes  clarity
BAAC  lending practices,  and farmers' incomes ani  expenditures,
with respect to draft animals.
As  noted in the PCR,  buying and selling draft animals  each
year is a common practice; if a client uses a term loan to buy a
draft animal, and subsequently sells the animal before the due
date of the loan, MAAC procedures require that he should repay
the loan immediately.
Table AS shows the levels of expenses and income which a
farmer in Northeast Thailand might reasonably expect from the
purchase of a buffalo.
Normally draft animals are neutered males, so there is no
income  from  breeding  services.   No feed  costs  are  incurred
because food from natural grazing is adequate; enough salt is
cbvained  from the soil;  and children from within the  household
.take care of the animals when they are not working, so there are
no labour costs.



- 92 -
aible  !   P ect :3st3           '.i  :ions ef 7cr.
:BRD      WC          r 'rers    T'taj
Lenoin  ~csoconent                     .' .J   232       .     7 %. 4    7v4.oO
2,^30ec:hM    endiner                         toII    :{ *.?1;.'S.;
-  n-iart ievelooment                 ;4.6      7.v3      '.03    ::3..
- ifrisou culturt                     l.o0      ?.71      ;.1        q.6
(' !Jon-sucifieu lendina             =4.08    :71.70    10.64   706.1d
- .,       ;~ 3a   eae   'oXe(         *.t       .'°        .07       *2
-   -"GinRG :ert !:Pcinq            ,.84    271.50   !04.57   705.@1
blon-lendine +:.Asonent                 e,:         ,:,       .13      Q-!'
(13 tansq1'aints                        -5-°'       .0        .CO      5~
'21 traininq,  f2l1swshios              J. 4        .130      .00      3.w2
Orand totai                           74-14    82.52    106.74         Z.'73
_.- -   - _ _ _   __    __ -- -- -  - _ _ _  _ _ _ -_ -- ---_         __---



- 93 -
Table 122   .sDurseuent it           aneiua- ,nd '.x-term loans by region. FY t180W-M°
2eqiDa   -1s80   ~~~~------   --     -- - ----- -                        9 -         --?       ---            ec;
'edi fa    Lano    4e4iu    Leong    mediij   Lone    4ediua    Long    4eiaa    Lar.o                cnate
lcrth              272 -3  l-O.Q2    M           0642   24'.1'4 '' i I5.70   289.30   139.0 o .1?   51.4.              Q.SO
Northcast.         :'5.03    ql -56   ;'4!1!-':  'Ot,.02   ;12.67   276.28   250 .1I e   1121- I' '.;.O     !l6-;C G   :o. 
Central!East        8 9      I iv'!    5 G ;!   240.4 2e O. A   2.74         259.s7    1;' reN       30-^2   1`7.41AA  l4*7.I
vlest/South. *O       -S   :68.6o  .8 .    513   . 1.7.   709.02   320.20 0 361.01   1564.3   IS.:3  > 9 .43           12. '
Total               02 .,9  542.74              3 _62362  !072 14  :i83.'3l  t160.5t  '637-of47  7.292  :958.t7        148.36



- 94 -
'able 43   Ion-soetifie4 lending: l,ana bi oroduct ind Ae9iZn. snall farvers n  ill fargers ;000 Sant:
NWHERN REG1IN                     NOPrTEAST ;EGI0N                   'JRT4 AN  NQ ThERST
NWooucb  Si  sr  Amount Tot for  leount  St for  Ateqins Tot for  Amount  Sm 'it  Amount Tot for  hmount
Dice   l59?8  185171   2c'M O 1 184    4965   77893   16925  150131   2'9    253064   42026  46955
Liveitock    2I2   t3599       873w4r  34528    2825  24775    6373   60973    504   48374    '3202   455&6
asize     ?4!    7t14    1443   :4452        100     394      174    1788      945    8108    1622   !6240
Tobacco     s20    6603       76    337        104    11160     164    1843       73    7763       920   :OM
truit     dq49    9011     613   10877        73      M3      124    1623      57      994      737   125G5
Sugar cane      115    1459      22t    2971       60      162       95     914      1-5    1921      316    388
.Cssava        i7     54       !14    1134      112      491     179    2181       !74    1524       98   73,15
Cot'on      75      648      138    1480       60     434      108      957      '35    1082      246    2_37
ler.af     '.    312         87     ?29       71     555       149   1062    U11        867     206    :8i°
Beanl!    3C    2796        48WI   532        83      63"     167    1410       -83    3426     652    6542
Vegetables      85M    9741      910   :0371      267    1814      696    5429    il':  I155    1606   :ss0C
Poultr        42     457       40    t00C       61      o22     118    1814       Q1d    1079     208    2813
Fish      i4      767      121    1660      142   1'11       06    3623      '0$    2t178     42r    !23
Other       33     726      125    :22        54      174      94      915    17    1205        219   2207
TOTAL  2"761  249047   3309&4   112394   14006  11ZUZ13  2.592  2346r3   35767  362090   58684  647567
-able 43a  3ofn-17ec:fied l1ndinq: uans :w  oroduct 3. ?ep:n. saall farmers a-: :11' 'armers (000 lollarts
499TNERN REOION                   NORT'EAST 7E0ION                   '.'TN AND  OTPEAS'
Product  Si 'ir  Amount Tot far  Aaount  So for  Asount -ot for  Amount  Sa -ir  laount Tot far  eoouna
Rice   :?^ 7     'S     110  =:':     ::!63    996S   ''^?    02,4       "I  ^'A ^'!-   ::,'.?   1=1!1   ^^
Livestock    2172    1025   .2879    1496    2852    1084    6323    2669    S0.'   2109    ;2)2    .:65
maize      ?45     316    144s      i32      100       .9     174       78      4r5     m      1622       '
Tobacco     o20      289      756     365      104       51     164       81     '.       340     920      :54
Fruit     499      39l     613      476       73       11     124       71     V-7    135         7      547
Sugar cane      :".      64      221      13       60       Q        95      40      :74 3t           316      70
Cassava       67      24      19       ',0     112        3     1'9       ?       :-?      67      a.99    :4
Cotten       73      28      ,38      65       60       1:     108       42      -c       47      246     h07
Kenaf       11      14       37      36       73       21     :19       46       !4 '     8     20O       i3
Seans     300      122     AS!      223       83        0     167       62     333      149     652      235
Vegetables      350     426      §10     454      267       '       696     2'8    :!l7    506   'T60         :!
Poultrv      42       20       90      4L       61       27     t18       79      i:3       7     28M      i:'
Fish      64       32      21       70      142        ;     '.06     isX     :06       4      427      ^^8
Other       33      30      ::s      54       54        ;      94       40     137       51     21       ;1
TOT.4    8t! wis~r        -F               thS        v              16,1W    77-77 1- GiAd'   eRft 990 s I



_ 95 _
Trl,e Ad      "ONaecifield loittags Loam, my Ores@ 5y Mich. 13.1: firits an a             l: 1 irati '000 31hti
MOPTNIRN REGION                   tOEAT tEC 1010                     IOT  AD IORN AST
Pruesa  So 'hwr  Astut 7ot far  Asheet So far  Aseut  eat !sr  Asennt  If tr  Aeunt Tot for  ieouts
Draft aiual   1114   1a55.6   15768  h4d00   8164   6259d    449   144:240   19698   6110    06S1  158840
Ureedu  anisal    1:61   1479    1708   19761    1833   15392           549   ;SSSS    ;194    O1l:1       257    3:92
Lani itraw    1180   12456    2272   2643          421    33         711    664;    1t01   !5891    P83           S
Land lease      713   11658    1402   22945        45      S52       61     842      738   12010    1413   2380?
Land acqaiiitn      MO   2S822    1687   46842         410    5566       1    17237    1350   29388    :         64079
Water iarov       591    S0"       803    1200       201    1402      D9     S063      792    6500    11%    10263
Frtit irnrev      249    476       S01    5479        45     539       35    1064      294    5215 . 92    454
Catiag plant      102    1119      i31    1526         1     a98      We    1327        173    2017      2S3    2853
Fare buildiaf    16S9   :1050    23%    58280         528    M638       23    8114    1947   25688    3219   4636
Fi,db.s blig       66     919      110    1650        83   144       164    4321      149    246S       274    59t
Storage blig      271    2530      513    629        121     M80      26    2486       32    3810        759    878
Cattle riaisim      758    8061    1106   13506        90      977    2473   20629    1662   1S0         3579   3S65
Pig raihin        s0     485       80      936       83      8       148    2070      133    1483      228    S006
Fishbpad       60     i31      103    1156      102    103       2340   28S1       162    1665        3    4047
Tll,rtrattar    1522   28513   2.632   51198          l1S    2860      281    m1       1677   31373    2913   S6929
Trailer     113    '376       t88    2312       50    8U         It    .2639      163   '225       299    4951
;illing uaches       23      226      51      603       S6      402     106    2211        59     628      157    2814
Pick-ap truck       53      S08     105    129         42     34        Is    13S8        95     842      200   24652
Fra   uWialu      592    9035    1011   1417         105     796      181    2026      697    9831    t192   17503
Other     'U      297       720    5373      207    1419      '14    2246       751    4716    1034    7619
*t761  249045    W03  412893   14006  113041   7n592  23470            76     2086   58685  647563
Table Ads       mm-spacsf tld lemdilmq  jms by parpesa  by regias. full farers aid III faree   (000 dollars)
ONTERN REGION                     NORThEAST REGION                   NORTH AnD hh0TNEAST
Perem   So f at  Raount Tot tar  Aumnt  Sr tat  lAut Tot for  Ausot  Som for  Assoat  Tat for    eaut
Draft asiul   11134    4183   15768    6156           64    2739   14499    5000   1M698    6922   ,0267    111St
3ritadg amiual    1361       633    1708      848    1833       674    3549    ;467   '394    1'09    5257   2'15
Land i'trov    1180      537    2272    1138       *21      150      711     2°1    1601       688    298      1429
Land ltot       713     SIC    1402    1OOS        43       15        1       ,37    7s8    '26    1403    1042
Land ateqisita      94      1043    1687    2050       410     24       9S8      74    1_50    1286    2675    2800
hater zasrov      591      223     303      315      201      61      393      134     7°2      214    i1°6      44
Fruit ietrav      249     205      '07      240      4d       14       85 s     j7     .n4      A28     ;92      ^36
jCuint plint      102       1i     131       67       71      S9      104       58     1M        88      235     '25
Farm )utl4ing    1439       '21    23q6    1675       528     203      a2:      SS5    V167    1124    S219    20130
Pi7ttet !Idc       ;4       da     !^         ' VA            hA    '161       Iso     10e      :e      ^J
Mrmgs b iidg      U         ,               :33      1. i             -4       1        '       :6      7, ;;
attlet  *i s in     ^58     ;5S    1106     09           1      SvO 4 3Ov 47    t0 162            w5 33           :4t
7ig t ais1nq      50      M1       80       11     48v        4      149      1       13S       e5     ::       :'2
iSg ;onJ       . 0             . tC  :!2                  ;15    .40      17  1         * j
illtr tPac s  l aA  ~~'I:    1.6vi2  21vc      :        . I M                    w        vl     °s       a
?ra&uor       !3      to :     Ss :2! s; 00                      :2:      I       :1                ::       :
¶11tq * tnes       ^     ;     )       3!      2I   S            :8     :0e   4 7         3'AW^
r ~     :bin  -?S    :31  *        07 35    t :              ?8      3:-     1       ;  A 5=
*  @*      .i     :  3  .          .                        .t                 ,
,,,,_ -  ,,,,,,,_, -,_ .----- - - - - - -- - ---    - - - - -- - ----     - -     - - - -     - -    - - --- -----



- 96 -
'urc0a: ¢ r: ':f :D'!r     snar-I :n:e::t'al       :nnl.1~eln
.Ash ;Rcale:
4nt-out ^fr               i ) P    t). 
5ent-iu; 4-st t7anstrcr       .^'trw',
Z33b zxoe,.c:tur,s:
!diCaI 'Ist's aMnd  uDplies                                         .0
TotQ. -ISh eDoendi;Iures
itter'   :ears ai j iorein  ;r,ian
-ears  J,r !!auqhter                             -.00



'                              ~~~~~~I HAI LAN u
r I SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
o       \,  *~RIIICIIES    BANKa FOR AGRICULTURE AllO AGRIlCULTURAL C3UPEIRIITES IUIAl\CI
-20C         B U                                       C R MA  -                                               PRDVINCES WITH EDAAC BRANCHES                0--
.11%       -.t    )         *Ci  Ft                                                   HEAD OFFICE. BAAC
g  -\   |          4_  _.,                                   *    DR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RANCH OFFICES, DAAC
H.M11Hc                                                                                  o S_  4\\t2{CANGWAT IPROV NCIAL) BOUNDARIES
:  r <   >  t      (           $                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOU,NOARIES
>    6  n t x                  As ~~~DEM. RP
vl        R               r    ww                       L            t 10R                                 ,
.:\    :o  M f(   *hsJ }                                                        )_  > \r< 
\              -t\u            5      ?      Nn  RA  t>_*Lt Dud  R-;*     
Ph,7 Nakh.n Si A           J 4             N
K..d.buN ,             >*Pk  I    .     
Ph*hd ,ErR   ,                                                          EM CAI
ise }           ~K A MP UC HE A
--12-                                             t? hdKt-                                                                                                   1-
5    ,UrH                                                   IIe                                   HN
' t ;                                                                             b~~~~~~~~~~~~ '._~~~~SUM
NWd-~~~~tt 
gt:      MlillEtwa
/  I,,eti 
0 T      \ '< THAILAND                                                                              t
I   PhgiX h                                                             \         o-  '^C.r Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KS-VlIET NbAM
@  {  \ wR>^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PCEAj
MILES 0,            GP  BP                                   \t                                                                  .SIN;AIRE    t_   0
KiLOIIETERS or    l                                                S                                                                                       m-g^



