Document of
The World Bank   FilE C Opyr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2704-TH
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 15, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00             = Baht (B) 20
B 1.00             =  $0.05
$1 million        =  B 20 million
B 1 million       =  $50 thousand
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)         =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)           =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.2 pounds
1 rai                   =  0.16 ha
I cubic centimeter (cc) = 0.061 cubic inch
ABBREVIATIONS
ACFT            - Agricultural Cooperative Federation of Thailand
ADB            - Asian Development Bank
Associations   -  Farmers' Associations
BAAC           -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT            - Bank of Thailand
CAD            - Cooperative Auditing Department
CLT            - Cooperative League of Thailand
Cooperatives   -  Agricultural Cooperatives
CPD            - Cooperative Promotion Department
DAE             - Department of Agricultural Extension
DOF             - Department of Fisheries
MOAC            - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF             - Ministry of Finance
NESDB           - National Economic and Social Development Board
OAE             - Office of Agricultural Economics
RID             - Royal Irrigation Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE 6NLY
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 . 
General .. . .. . . . . . . . . .   1
The Agricultural Sector ....              . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    .  2
Agricultural Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3
Farmers' Cooperative Organizations   . .               . . ..        .      4
2.  BANK FOR AGRICIJLTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES (BAAC)  . .                7
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 8
Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                8
Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
Lending Procedures and Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
Financial St:ructure and Condition . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Audit    .....  ..  .         .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .   .  12
3.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                        .      13
Project Area  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Project Lending Component               . ...14
Project Technical Assistance Component   . . . . . . . . . .    16
Cost Estimates   .....  .   .           .  .  .  .  .   ... . .    .  .  .   .  20
Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Disbursements.. . . . . . . . . . ..22
Accounts and Audit.. .. . .. .    22
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....23
Credit Operations                ..23
Training Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Survey and Study   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                26
Reporting Requirement and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . .    26
5.  MARIUCTING AND PRICES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Marketing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Pr:Lces  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
This document has a mtricted distribution nd may be ued by recipients only in the porforme
of their official duties. Its contents may no otherwis be disclosd without World Bank uthoriation.



-2-
Page No.
6.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Rates of Return . . . .* .  .  .  .  .  ... ....   . .....   .    29
Employment Impact .a.c.t.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    30
Foreign Exchange Impact . . . . . . . . . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    30
Project Risks . . . .*.*. .* . .   . .  .  .  . ..  .   . . . . .   .   31
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
TABLES
1.1  Farmers' Cooperative Organizations  . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
3.1   Summary Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
3.2  Project Financing      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
5.1   Present and Projected Farm-Gate Prices of Outputs
and Major Inputs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
6.1   Main Incremental Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
6.2   Rates of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
ANNEXES
1     Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
2    Detail Project Costs and Phasing
3     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4     Costs and Benefits Analyses
5     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD 14506 Agricultural Credit Project



THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT /1
1.  BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Roya:L Government of Thailand has requested Bank assistance to
strengthen the Banlc for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) and
agricultural cooperatives, which in the long term are intended to serve small
farmers throughout the country. The Government aims through this project to
(a) improve BAAC's term lending capability to finance new credLit programs, and
(b) strengthen appreciably the presently weak cooperative system to serve
small farmers more effectively. The project proposes to finance a credit
program for farmers and fishermen through BAAC, and a technical assistance
program primarily to strengthen the cooperative system./2 The credit program
would include term credit for: on-farm development in irrigable areas; shrimp
culture; oil palm development primarily for demonstration to smallholder
settlers; and other lending categories to be further identified by BAAC during
project implementation. The major components of the technical assistance
program would include: intensive training for cooperative staff and
government staff who administer cooperatives; establishment of three
additional mobile training units for promotion of cooperatives; improvement of
the cooperative auditing system; restructuring of cooperatives in poor
financial condition; employment of consultants for improving 13AAC's lending
and other banking operations; replanning of three oil palm settlement schemes;
review of the oil palm sector; and a study to identify a supporting system
suitable for Thailand, which would reduce the risk of lending to small
farmers. The total project cost is estimated to be about $37.6 million, of
which the Bank would contribute $19.0 million. BAAC would implement the
credit component, the Cooperative Promotion Department (CPD) 'would undertake
the training program for cooperative staff, while BAAC and the appropriate
government agencies would be responsible for other technical assistance.
/1  This report reflects the findings of a Bank mission that visited Thailand
in February-March 1979 consisting of Messrs. Y. Nakahara, I. Moreithi,
A. Hasan (Banlk), and R. Hoover and C. Goldthorpe (consultants), and a
further visit by Mr. Nakahara in August 1979 for postappraisal
disclussions. The project was prepared by the Government with the
collaboration of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program.
/2  Assistance is limited to agricultural cooperatives which are all multi-
purpose business operations. Other types of cooperatives (i.e., consumer,
thrift and credit, and service cooperatives) are not included in the
project.



-2-
1.02      The proposed project would be complementary to other Bank-supported
projects, notably the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project II (Loan
1468-TH), the two National Agricultural Extension Projects (Loans 1393-TH and
1752-TH), and a proposed agricultural research project presently under prepa-.
ration. The project would encourage increased production of rice, which is
Thailand's staple food and major export crop. It would also assist in
improving the country's unfavorable balance of trade through import substi-
tution from oil palm development, and through export of rice and shrimp.
1.03      The proposed project would aim at financing farmers throughout the
country but concentration of lending would occur in certain areas according to
credit demand and the strength of the support services. The scope of the
project would be geared to BAAC's lending capacity; however, BAAC's intensive
training program to be conducted during the project period would substantially
improve its present capacity to finance new credit programs.
The Agricultural Sector
1.04      Agriculture accounts for about 30% of Thailand's GDP, employs about
three fourths of the labor force on a full- or part-time basis, and is the
source of about 60% of total exports. From 1960 to 1977, the sector grew at
4.9% in real terms and has been the mainspring of overall economic growth.
The key factor in the past growth of agriculture has been the expansion,
averaging 4%, of the cultivated area and, to a lesser extent, construction of
irrigation facilities, and the resulting improvement in water control, and
diversification of cash crops such as maize, cassava, kenaf, sugarcane, and
rubber in rainfed areas. However, yields of the major crops have remained
stagnant and the cropping intensity is at a low 76%. Continued use of
low-productivity technology in general, coupled with diminishing availability
of arable land, has resulted in a declining agricultural growth rate. The
industrial sector is still too small to offset a decline in agricultural
growth; the growth of the Thai economy is therefore heavily dependent on
increased crop yields through intensive land use and use of improved
technologies in both the irrigated and rainfed areas.
1.05      There are still significant disparities in farm income between the
agro-economic regions, mainly due to unequal resource endowment. The Central
Region is agriculturally the most prosperous, partly due to the fertility of
the soil but also due to heavy government investments in irrigation and other
infrastructural facilities which permit double cropping and crop diversifi-
cation. However, the bulk of the farm population is concentrated in the
North and the Northeast where most of Thailand's poor are to be found. These
two regions together contain two-thirds of the country's farm units, the
Northeast being somewhat larger with one-third of the country's land area
and 40% of its agricultural households. The main cause of poverty in these
regions is the low yields obtained from growing rice and other crops under



rainfed conditions and the low cropping intensity, particularly in years of
low rainfall. Development of the rainfed areas, therefore, has a special
bearing on efforts to redistribute income because most of the farmers in
Thailand depend on rainfed agriculture.
1.06      Structurally, Thai agriculture consists of smallholdings which are
relatively evenly distributed. Over 90% of farm operators are owners, mostly
sole owners. The problem of tenancy is not significant except in the Central
Region where tenancy is growing (12% of farm operators are tenants).  Rice is
the main crop; other major crops, mostly grown in the rainfed areas, include
maize, rubber, sugarcane, cassava, kenaf, mungbeans, soybeans, cotton and
tobacco. Livestock, dominated by water-buffalo, is of moderate importance and
accounts for about 15% of the agricultural output; it has, hcowever, some
potential for further development in rainfed areas particularly within a
mixed-farming system.
Agricultural Credit
1.07      Agricultural credit in Thailand is available through credit institu-
tions and from inf-ormal sources.  The types of credit institutions, ordered by
lending volume, are:
(a)  BAAC, wiich lends directly to individual farmers as well as to
cooperatives and farmers' associations;
(b) commercial banks, which provide working capital andl development
credit mainly for medium- and large-scale farmers; and
(c) cooperaitive organizations, which provide mainly seasonal
production loans to their members.
1.08      Traditionally, most credit has been provided by ini-ormal sources
such as moneylenders, merchants, friends and relatives.  With government
support, however, institutional credit has been increasing steadily in recent
years. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) has played a leading role in this increase.
In particular, BOT introduced in 1975 a guideline which established annual
targets for the commercial banks to lend a certain portion of- their resources
to farmers, directly in the form of loans or indirectly by p:Lacing deposits
with BAAC. As a result, the total outstanding institutional credit to farmers
and farmers' cooperative organizations at the end of March 1979 reached B 16.0
billion, a volume estimated by BOT to meet about 60% of short-term production
credit needs but only a small portion of medium- and long-term credit needs.
1.09      Institutional Credit.  The two major sources of institutional credit
are BAAC and the commercial banks. BAAC is the primary lender to cooperatives
and farmers' associations. At the end of March 1979, BAAC had loans of B 9.2
billion outstanding, of which B 3.5 billion were extended to farmers' coopera-
tive organizations, while the commercial banks had B 7.9 bilLion. Terms and



- 4 -
conditions for agricultural credit in Thailand are generally secured by
mortgages on land, personal guarantors and/or floating charges on crops or
moveable property such as farm equipment. Both BAAC and the commer-
cial banks follow these practices. Cooperatives and associations lend to
members against crop expectations as well as personal guarantors.
1.10       Interest Rates.  Interest rates are regulated by the Government and
were recently raised by 3%. BAAC will thus charge an interest rate of 12% to
18% for short- and medium-term loans to individual farmers. The BAAC rate to
cooperatives and associations is also 12% and they onlend to their members at
15% thus obtaining a spread of 3%. These interest rates would prevail under
the proposed project where the average interest rate charged by BAAC would be
about 14%. Commercial banks now charge a minimum of 15% for both short- and
mediumterm loans. Inflation rates in Thailand averaged about 8% in the last
three years, but are projected to average about 13% per annum in the early
1980s.
Farmers' Cooperative Organizations
1.11       There are two types of farmers' cooperative organizations in
Thailand; cooperatives and associations. The cooperative movement which
started in 1916 was based on unlimited liability village societies (mostly
credit societies) and the first Cooperative Societies Act was enacted in 1928.
A major revision of the Act in 1968 restructured the cooperative infra-
structure into a three-tier system of district (merging over 10,000 village
societies), provincial, and national cooperatives. The Cooperative League of
Thailand (CLT) was also established under the revised Act to become
responsible for promotion, training /1 and coordination of agricultural as
well as nonagricultural cooperatives. Until they were legalized in 1962,
associations were informal groups organized at the village level for the
purpose of jointly purchasing inputs and marketing farm products. The number
of cooperatives (as of September 30, 1978) and associations (as of March 31,
1979) and their memberships are given in Table 1.1 below:
/1 At present, CLT provides training only to nonagricultural coopera-
tives, while CPD is responsible for the agricultural cooperatives' train-
ing program.



Table 1.1: FARMERS' COOPERATIVE ORGANIZATIONIS
Average
Type of OI anizatiLon      Category          Number   Membership   membership
Agricultural coop--      Agriculture           769      760,405          989
eratives               Land settlement        91       53,293          581
Fisheries               8        1,429          179
Subtotal                                 868      815.127         939
Farmers' associatiLons                       3,608      350,600           97
Total                                  4,476   1,165,727          260
1.12      The periEormance of both cooperatives and associations has been dis-
appointing despite the strong support from the Government.  lThe primary
cause of the poor performance of cooperatives appears to be iLneffective
management in conducting their multipurpose operations (such as lending,
supply of inputs, and marketing of farm products and, in some cases, storage
and rice milling) due to staff shortages, inadequate support for staff
training, and insufficient incentives to attract qualified individuals to work
for primary cooperatives at the district level. Most associations were unable
to hire staff because of the limited profits earned from their small-scale
operation. A joint survey conducted in 1978 by BAAC and other concerned
agencies classified as good only 16 out of the 742 cooperatives and none of
the 1,564 associaltions surveyed./1 Other cooperatives and associations had
minor (24% and 16% respectively) or major (74% and over 80% r espectively)
managerial and financial problems which required BAAC to deny completely, or
approve only a portion of, the requested increase in lending until corrective
measures were taken.
1.13      Cooperatives are overseen by two departments within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC); CPD is in charge of supervising and
regulating cooperatives and CAD has the responsibility for auditing coopera-
tives. The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) is in charge of super-
vising and regulating associations. Unfortunately, both CPD and CAD have not
been effective as overseers of cooperatives. The major weaknesses of CPD were
ineffective supervision of cooperatives, emphasis on numerical expansion as
opposed to quality control of cooperative operations, limited planning
capabilities, inadequate staff training and lack of professional assistance
/1 Classification was based on criteria developed jointly by BOT, CPD, the
Cooperative Auditing Department (CAD), BAAC and the commercial banks.



- 6 -
for cooperatives to become efficient business organizations; CAD's weaknesses
were insufficient staffing to meet audit schedules, narrow role limited to
identifying exceptions to regulations and procedures, inadequate staff
training, and centralized location of auditors in Bangkok which limits direct
contact with primary cooperatives.
1.14      To assist small farmers throughout the country, the Government has
decided to revitalize the failing cooperatives and associations.  With the
assistance of consultants financed by USAID, the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB) prepared a "Five-Year Comprehensive Plan for the
Development of Agricultural Cooperatives" in February 1979. The Plan recom-
mended a modified cooperative system that would establish a single cooperative
framework through which farmers could obtain full services for extension,
credit, input supply and marketing; the Plan also recommended strengthening
CPD and CAD to assist cooperatives. The modified system would aim to:
(a) establish the cooperative as the sole cooperative organization
providing agricultural services and inputs to farmers;
(b) provide farmers with access to credit, particularly to seasonal
production credit, irrespective of land ownership;
(c)  assure farmers of marketing outlets for surplus production and
an adequate price support program;
(d) provide farmers with fertilizers and other basic inputs needed for
production;
(e) provide extension services for farming through the village level
structure of the cooperative system;
(f) establish a training program that would provide cooperatives with a
team of trained staff to improve their management;
(g) enable farmers to operate cooperatives as efficient and financially
viable businesses with assistance from government agencies; and
(h) enable government agencies to perform their promotional, regulatory
and advisory roles effectively in assisting cooperatives.
1.15      In April 1979, the Government decided to modify the present
cooperative system and established a special Subcommittee for Improvement of
Agricultural Cooperatives under NESDB. In August 1979, this Subcommittee
recommended that:
(a) the Office for Development of Agricultural Cooperatives be organized
under the Subcommittee to be responsible for supervision, coordi-
nation, monitoring and evaluation of programs to restructure and
develop cooperatives;



(b) procedures be established to incorporate associations into the
cooperati.ve system with the support of all agencies concerned,
starting in 1979 in Singburi province;
(c) the merits of combining the input supply and marketing operations be
reviewed at the national level by the Marketing Organization of
Farmers and the Agricultural Cooperative Federation of Thailand
(ACFT);
(d)  the posilion of an independent Registrar be created (this function
is presently exercised by the Director General of CPD);
(e)  a draft revision be prepared of the present Cooperative Societies
Act; this would clarify the roles of the Registrar, CPD and CAD;
and
(f) an intensive training program be implemented for cooperatives, CPD,
CAD and BAAC.
The Subcommittee also recommended that funds required for restructuring
cooperatives in poor financial condition, and for intensifying training of
cooperative and government staff, be sought under a Bank loan.
1.16      With the assistance of consultants financed by USAII), the Government
initially prepared a training program which would cover about 800 cooperatives
in three years. However, because of the inadequate local tra:Lning capability
and the projected slow progress of restructuring cooperatives where the
trained managers and staff would serve, the program was reduced to include
about 400 cooperatives and the restructuring program to about 350 cooperatives
selected on a priority basis. Another fundamental decision taken in January
1980 assigned CPD full responsibility for implementing the training as well as
the restructuring program. Under this new organizational arrangement, NESDB's
Office for Development of Agricultural Cooperatives would become a coordinator
and monitor of various government cooperative programs implemented by CPD, CAD
and other agencies.
2. BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE' (BAAC)
2.01      BAAC is a government-owned institution that was established in 1966
as the successor to the Bank for Cooperatives. It is now the single largest
credit institution serving farmers in Thailand. It plays a much bigger role
than the commercial banks in assisting smaller farmers, particularly by
onlending through cooperatives and associations. (A survey of the different
types of farmers served by BAAC and the commercial banks has not yet been
undertaken.) BAAC is now changing from a passive supplier of funds to a
development-oriented bank. The proposed cooperative system (para. 1.15)
assumes that BAAC would ultimately function as an apex bank, while the
cooperatives function as the primary lending conduits to small farmers.



2.02      Since its inception, BAAC had disbursed B 27.6 billion ($1.4 bil-
lion) by March 1979. However, more than 70% of the disbursement has
occurred since 1975 when BOT established a guideline for commercial banks to
extend credit to farmers (para. 1.08). To manage its increased level of
operations effectively, BAAC has already made numerous organizational and
operational improvements, such as creating a Planning Department and a Loans
Department in charge of all lending programs, intensifying its training
program with emphasis on field staff, and simplifying its reporting system.
Organization and Management
2.03      The activities of BAAC are controlled by a Board of Directors
consisting of 11 members. The Chairman is the Minister of Finance and the
Vice Chairman the Under-Secretary of State of MOAC. Other members are
representatives from the Prime Minister's Office, the Judicial Council, the
Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOAC, the Budget Bureau,
BOT, and the Thailand Bankers' Association. The General Manager is also an
ex-officio member of the Board.
2.04      BAAC, with its head office in Bangkok, has 58 branch offices and 479
field units in the provinces. The General Manager is in charge of day-to-day
operations assisted by four Deputy General Managers (two of these positions
are now vacant). The head office (Annex 1, Chart 20245) is responsible for
planning and control functions, and general admininstration. There are four
departments (Planning, Loans, Banking and Accounting, and General Administra-
tion) and two offices (Secretariat, and Audit and Inspection). Branch offices
(Annex 1, Chart 20424) are in charge of field operations; lending (appraisal,
approval within authorized limits, disbursement, supervision, and collection)
and soliciting deposits. Under the direct control of branch offices, field
units assist borrowers in preparing loan applications and contact them
periodically to check their adherence to loan conditions, particularly on use
of funds and on repayment, as well as to advise on any implementation
problems.
Staffing
2.05      In 1978, BAAC increased its staff by 8%, placing most new staff in
branches and field units, but still failed to fill 719 newly authorized
positions (611 for branches and field units) necessary to cope with the
increasing business volume. This large number of unfilled positions reflects
the difficulties of attracting suitably qualified people to work away from
main urban centers in Thailand. By providing greater allowances for staff in
outlying areas, BAAC expects to fill these vacancies soon. Another special
effort made by BAAC focused on raising the morale of the existing staff
through: (a) intensive training; (b) individual staff performance evaluation;
and (c) evaluation of branch performance. At the end of March 1979, BAAC had
a total staff of 3,632, of which 15.4% (559) were at the head office and 84.6%
(3,073) at branches and field units. In general, the staff are well qualified
and of good caliber. The managers of departments, divisions and branches are
usually university graduates, many of them with several years of experience
in other organizations.



-9-
Training
2.06       Over the last few years, BAAC has devoted considerable effort to
staff training. Thie first intensive training program, implemented in 1978,
comprised eighteen 1-8 week courses for 1,153 staff. To improve the
efficiency of branch operations and the quality of lending programs, priority
was given to training for field staff, including support service staff. A
two-month course attended by the heads of field units showed immediate
results: after completing the course, they were able for the first time to
inspect the financial records of cooperatives and associations without
assistance from the supervising government officers, and succeeded in
enforcing financial disciplines which had been neglected in the past. BAAC is
presently improving its training program, assisted for one year by an
expatriate consultaLnt financed under the Colombo Plan.
2.07      A special three-week training course /1 on formulating and evaluat-
ing small-scale agricultural projects was held in August 1979 for staff of the
Project Division of the Planning Department. Fifteen BAAC staff and 3 govern-
ment officers participated in the course which included field-work for the
formulation of a pr oject under consideration and evaluation of an ongoing
project. After completing the course, each trained staff member was given
full-time responsibility at head office for a specific commodity in a specific
region. This included responsibility for identification, formulation and
appraisal of new projects.
Lending Procedures and Operations
2.08      Loans to Individual Farmers (Individual Loans). BAAC provides loans
of all maturities to individual farmers for a wide range of agricultural
investments, including production inputs, marketing, on-farm development, farm
mechanization, and purchase of work animals. It also extends a ten-year
special loan funded by the Government to consolidate and refinance farmers'
old debts borrowed at high interest rates. Short-term production loans are
based on credit need per rai, fixed by crop, but adjusted to reflect local
conditions in provinces. All individual borrowers are required to join a
small informal guarantee group, which enables BAAC to take advantage of the
socioeconomic sanctions arising from the joint liability characteristics of
these groups, partiLcularly in the case of repayment. Each memlber is liable
for his own loan and for other loans guaranteed by the group. The limit on
short-term loans is 60% of the value of the expected marketable surplus
produce.  Medium-term loans (up to B 30,000) can be borrowed without
collateral if guaranteed by two members of the group.  However, collateral is
required for mediurn-term loans exceeding B 30,000 and for all long-term loans.
Small loans have an interest rate of 12% but interest on larger loans
increases progress:Lvely up to 18%.
/1 The course was sponsored by the Asia and Pacific Regional Agricultural
Credit Association and given by two lecturers from the College of
Agricultural Credit, Reserve Bank of India.



- 10 -
2.09      Loans to Cooperatives and Associations (Institutional Loans).  Most
of BAAC's loans to cooperatives and associations are made available under
credit line agreements renewed every five and three years respectively; these
loans therefore function in a manner similar to a revolving fund. However,
BAAC stipulates the amount to be used for short-term and for medium-term
investments respectively. The loan purposes include: (a) onlending to
members in the form of short- and medium-term loans for agricultural purposes;
(b) purchase of produce from members; and (c) purchase of farm inputs and
supplies sold to members. The limit on the amount of loans is 12 times the
owned funds for cooperatives and 10 times for associations. BAAC also
provides a small amount of long-term loans for construction of cooperative-
owned facilities such as rice mills and storage facilities. All interest
rates to cooperatives and associations are 12%, while funds onlent to members
are charged at 15%.
2.10      Recent Lending.  Total loans disbursed in 1978 amounted to B 6.7
billion ($335 million), an increase of 22% over the previous year.
Disbursements to individual farmers were B 4,876 million (73% of the total),
to cooperatives B 1,641 million (24% of the total) and to associations B 183
million (3% of the total). The latter was the only group to decrease
disbursements (by 30%), because of poor bookkeeping, misappropriation of
funds, and unsatisfactory repayment record. A large portion (70%) of
disbursement was for short- and medium-term loans. Most long-term loans were
financed by funds from external sources (Japan and the United States). The
annual growth rate appears to have leveled off to 20% in 1978 from an average
of 46% between 1973 and 1978.
Financial Structure and Condition
2.11      Financial Structure.  At the end of March 1979, BAAC's funds
amounted to B 12,813 million ($640 million). The three major sources were
owned funds, deposits and borrowings as described below:
(a)  Owned Funds.  At the end of March 31, 1979, BAAC had paid up capital
of B 1,420 million, accumulated profit of B 296 million, reserves of
B 57 million, and unallocated profit of B 85 million, totaling
B 1,838 million in owned funds. Of the total paid-up share capital,
B 1,402 million (99%) was held by the Government and the remainder
by cooperatives, associations and their members.
(b)  Deposits.  Of total deposits (B 7,753 million), B 5,586 million or
about 70% came from resources I of commercial banks (para. 1.08).
Other deposits of B 2,167 million were made by various government
agencies or solicited from the general public; the latter has become
the major source of increase since 1977, when branch offices started
special campaigns for increasing deposits at the provincial level.
/1 This represented 9% of their total deposits at the end of the 1977 fiscal
year. This percentage was increased to 11% for 1979 and 15% for 1980.



- 11 -
(c)  Borrowings.  Total borrowings were B 2,944 million.  This amount
came from the rediscounting facility and credit line provided by
BOT: B 1,990 million; from foreign governments (Japan and the
United States): B 627 million; and from the Governimeént: B 327 mil-
lion.
2.12      The rapid growth in deposits from commercial banks, together with
borrowings from BOT, supported the recent growth of BAAC's loan portfolio,
raising the total debt/equity ratio from 0.7:1 in December 1973 to 5.9:1 by
March 1979. The liquidity position of BAAC is sound with a current ratio of
about 3.6:1. Its financial structure is considered to be satisfactory
(Annex 1, Table 4).
2.13      Financial Performance.  BAAC's gross income increased sixfold over
the past five years, from B 193 million in 1973 to B 1.2 billion in 1978.
However, net income dropped from B 47 million in 1973 to B 5 million in 1975,
and then increased again to B 85 million in 1978. A calculation shows that
the cost of funds as well as of operations has been rising because of
increased deposits; by the commercial banks (at an interest rate of 8% in 1978)
and the lhigher unit cost of operations. The net spread was calculated as
0.76% in 1978.
2.14      Financial Prospects.  Based on a tentative five-year (1979-83)
projection, BAAC expects its lending volume to increase at an annual growth
rate of 20%, so that total disbursement in 1983 would be B 15.1 billion
($755 million). Considering the rapid improvement of BAAC's lending
capability under way, this forecast seems to be reasonable, but the sources of
incremental funds required are still not confirmed. BAAC is aware that the
heavy dependence experienced in recent years on deposits froml the commercial
banks would no longer be possible, since their lending to farmers, directly or
indirectly, is expected in 1980 to reach the maximum level of 15% required by
BOT. Soliciting deposits from the public will be given high priority, but its
contribution will be small in comparison with the large volume of funds
needed. Solicitation on a large scale in rural areas will also be costly. To
retain adequate funds, therefore, BAAC is preparing a long-term plan for fund
mobilization, inc:Luding measures such as expansion of borrowings from BOT,
capital increase by the Government, and new borrowings from overseas.
2.15      Arrears and Provisions for Doubtful Accounts.  BAAC has always made
an annual analysis of individual loans but not institutional loans, and the
resulting lack of accurate information on arrears of about 40% of the loan
portfolio is presenting a serious problem.  Since CPD and the DAE also
extended loans to cooperatives and associations respectively, loan portfolio
control became complex and many cooperatives and associations failed to
maintain members' repayment records. As a result, BAAC could neither obtain
periodic reports on the status of arrears, nor investigate the exact status of
BAAC's loans due to weak management and poor bookkeeping. This situation has
changed since the Government notified the cooperatives and associations that
BAAC had a legal right to inspect their loan portfolios and, hence, BAAC is
now able to enforce financial discipline for reporting and portfolio control.



- 12 -
BAAC expects to find out the accurate status of arrears of cooperatives in
poor financial condition through an evaluation to be conducted together with
CPD and CAD (and DAE for associations). Considering the time required to
complete the restructuring program, BAAC plans to conduct its own review
whenever necessary without waiting for the findings of the evaluation teams
(para. 3.16).
(a) Individual Loans. Arrears of individual loans (those which matured
during the fiscal year, plus loans in arrears for more than one
year) as of March 31, 1979 were about 28% of the outstanding
portfolio, a level considered unsatisfactory. However, this high
level is caused because many loans become due between January and
March and it is customary for borrowers to delay repayment for
several months. Over 40% were short-term loans which matured during
the 1978 fiscal year. In the past, loans more than two years in
arrears have dropped to a level of 4% or less. Therefore, the
present accumulated bad debt provision, which is about 4.0% of the
outstanding portfolio, appears to be adequate.
(b) Institutional Loans. Arrears of institutional loans as of March 31,
1979 were reported to exceed 60% of the outstanding portfolio. One
reason for the high percentage is that many cooperatives and asso-
ciations onlent a portion of the repayments in the following season,
a practice initially started in protest against BAAC's slow
processing of loan applications which resulted in late disbursement.
Another reason is the abuse of the flexibility granted under the
credit line agreement; many cooperatives and associations have
onlent a much larger portion for medium-term loans than authorized
by BAAC and, in some extreme cases, almost the entire amount. Also,
many cooperatives and associations lacked the staff to control their
loan portfolio. To control new lending, however, the financial
condition of cooperatives and associations is now graded (para.
1.12), and new funds to those with a low grading are being
restricted. The adequacy of the present accumulated bad debt
provision, which is 8.7% of the outstanding portfolio, would be
reviewed when additional information on arrears becomes available.
(c) Legal Action. BAAC has a Legal Division at head office and a legal
unit in each branch office responsible primarily for taking legal
action against willful defaulters. Because of the sensitivity of
taking legal action in rural areas, approval of the General Manager
is required in all cases. In 1978, legal action was taken against
2,300 individual farmers and four associations. Only 40% of farmers
were taken to court while 60% made full or partial payments prior to
court action, and most borrowers repaid their arrears prior to the
date of foreclosure fixed by the court.
Audit
2.16      As required by its charter, BAAC's accounts are audited annually by
the Office of the Auditor General of Thailand, the government institution



- 13 -
responsible for auditing all government departments and state enterprises in
the country. BAAC's Office of Auditing and Inspection, which is directly
responsible to the General Manager, carries out internal audilting, and audits
the branches three times a year. An informal study group has been organized
with the participation of the Office of the Auditor General, CAD and BAAC to
discuss auditing problems with a view to improving auditing procedures.
3.  THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would, over three years:  (a) provide funds
through BAAC for medium- and long-term lending; (b) assist the strengthening
of credit institutions (i.e., cooperatives, associations as t]hey are incor-
porated into the new cooperative system, and BAAC) and the government agencies
supervising the cooperative system (i.e., CPD and CAD); and (c) integrate
credit with other support services both for selection of subprojects and
implementation of investment plans approved by BAAC. Support to BAAC for term
credit would include its ongoing term lending operations which finance
investments by individual farmers and cooperatives with good lperformance
records. The project would be the first phase in assisting BAAC to function
effectively as an apex bank for cooperatives; the primary role of BAAC
emphasized under the new cooperative system is to increase the effectiveness
of cooperatives as conduits for providing credit to small farmers.
3.02      A definition of small farmers was developed for the purposes of the
project so that they would receive BAAC's special attention under the project.
Emphasis would be given to increasing the share of project proceeds onlent
to this group of farmers over what has been achieved in the past under BAAC's
ongoing term lending programs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from BAAC that it would use its best efforts to ensure that not less than 50%
of loan proceeds allocated for subloans would be used to finance small farmers
defined as: new settlers selected by government agencies responsible for
settlement, or any other farmers primarily engaged in farming activities, who
operate holdings smaller than the average holding in the particular province.
3.03      The major bottleneck to increasing yields through intensive farming
has been the low use of fertilizers and other inputs. Traditionally, the
Government has followed a policy of keeping prices to producers low at the
farm-gate and toletrating high input prices and/or inadequate supplies; this
leads to a continuation of an extensive form of cultivation, with low use of
inputs and low yields.  Improvements have recently been made in the output
price/input cost ratio to provide farmers with greater incentives to use
fertilizers. Continued improvement is necessary, however, if agricultural
yields per ha are to increase; consequently demand for institutional
credit is likely to grow.
Project Area
3.04      The three subloan categories specified for financing under the
project are located in the Central and Southern regions because of the



- 14 -
delay in preparation rather than the lack of viable lending categories in
other regions. Under BAAC's ongoing term lending programs, for example, loans
granted in 1976 were equally distributed between the Central and Southern
regions and the Northern and Northeastern regions. To correct regional
imbalance within the project, BAAC would direct lending for nonspecified
categories, particularly toward farmers in the North and Northeast regions
(para. 3.09).
Project Lending Component
3.05      On-farm Development.  The project would finance improvements on
11,200 ha of paddy fields and would directly benefit about 4,000 farm holdings
and indirectly benefit many neighboring small farmers renting a small area of
the improved paddy fields, mostly for the dry season only. Subprojects would
be located mainly in the Central Plain where the Bank-supported Chao Phya
projects have demonstrated the benefits of changing the cultivation pattern
from growing traditional rice varieties in the wet season to growing high-
yielding varieties in both wet and dry seasons. In areas where major
irrigation and drainage systems already exist, many farmers are seeking loans
from BAAC because of the uncertainty about the adequacy of public funds for
financing the growing demand for on-farm development. Implementation of
on-farm development through borrowing is a new scheme; therefore, subborrowers
would be made fully aware of their repayment obligations in applying for
loans.
3.06      Borrowing requests under the project would be initiated by a group
of farmers with irrigable paddy fields in contiguous areas suitable for
on-farm development. To be eligible for financing, the group should be
cohesive not only for implementation, but also for operation and maintenance
of the constructed irrigation and drainage system. The proposal of the group
would be reviewed by the Provincial Land Consolidation Committee composed of
representatives of the local government, the Office of Land Consolidation, the
Royal Irrigation Department (RID) and BAAC. BAAC would appraise subprojects
the Committee considers feasible. With BAAC's approval for financing, the
group would then be assisted by the members of the Committee at the provincial
and district levels, including cadastral survey by the Land Department and
topographic survey and design and supervision of civil works by RID. Areas of
investments would include land leveling, excavation of on-farm irrigation and
drainage ditches, construction of access roads, and realignment of farm
boundaries. On-farm civil works would be carried out by small local contrac-
tors. Payment to contractors would be made by BAAC at the request of the
group after inspection by representatives of the group and RID engineers.
BAAC would automatically debit the amount paid to contractors as loans to the
group.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
the necessary funds would be made available to the concerned line agencies for
implementation of on-farm development subprojects.
3.07      Shrimp Culture.  The project would finance the 225 shrimp farmers
with landholdings of about 5 ha in two settlement schemes covering 1,080 ha
(350 ha in Surat Thani province and 720 ha in Nakhon Sri Thammarat province)
in the Southern Region. Settlers for these schemes would be selected by a



- 15 -
local committee headed by the District Officer and representatives of the
concerned agencies including CPD. Priority for settlement would be given to
inhabitants of the province, particularly to those who are landless or already
living in the settLement areas, as well as to farmers who have been displaced
by other government projects such as dam construction. These procedures are
consistent with those used by the Public Welfare Department, '1e major
government settlement agency. When BAAC has appraised and approved the
settlement schemes and the farm plans of settlers, CPD would carry out, prior
to financing, topographic and cadastral surveys and construction of major
infrastructure such as roads and canals to lead brackish water into newly
constructed fish ponds. Investments would include: land clearing;
construction of shrimp ponds, dykes and a water control system, including
pumps (5-7 hp); construction of living quarters; and purchase of fishing nets,
traps, and other small shrimp farming tools. Civil works would be carried out
by small local contractors, who would be paid by BAAC under arrangements
similar to those adopted for on-farm development subprojects. Because most
settlers would have had no previous experience in shrimp culture, the
Departmen,t of Fisheries (DOF) would provide intensive training and establish
demonstration ponds in addition to regular extension services.41  CPD would
also assist cooperatives organized by settlers in each scheme.. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the necessary
funds would be made available to the concerned line agencies i-or implemen-
tation of shrimp culture subprojects.
3.08      Pilot Oil Palm Development.  The project would provide long-term
credit for establishing 350 ha of oil palms by about 220 sett:Lers in three
settlement schemes located in the South (i.e., Tha Sae, Lang Suan and Au Luk).
These plots would demonstrate good cultural practices to settLers who had
already aLdopted poor practices which may delay fruit bearing at least for
several years and, in serious cases, up to ten years. To ensure that good
practices would be followed, a technical manual for cultivation of oil palms
has been jointly prepared by the Government and the Bank for use by project
extension officers.  Selection of settlers would be conducted by a local
committee under procedures similar to those adopted for shrimp culture
subprojects.  After approval for financing by BAAC, individual settlers would
be assisted to plant about 1.6 ha of oil palms, but some of tlnem would plant a
larger area (up to 4 ha) to test the optimal scale of oil palm cultivation for
smallholcLers under different local conditions. The project would finance land
clearing and preparation; purchase of planting materials and small implements;
and all cash outlays for oil palm production up to the fourth year, the
first year of fruit bearing under good cultural practices./2 CPD would assist
cooperatives that are organized by settlers in each scheme.
/1  Shrimp farming techniques are well established in Thailand but an ADB
fishery project is financing a research program, conducted by DOF, to
raise technical standards.
/2 Cash outlays are included to ensure that settlers can successfully
establish the demonstration plots.



- 16 -
3.09      Nonspecified Lending Categories.  Although the specified subloan
categories would enable BAAC to expand its term lending programs at the
initial stage of implementation, a major feature of the project is to
strengthen the capacity of BAAC to identify, appraise and implement sound
credit programs in the agricultural sector during the entire project period.
Nonspecified lending categories would allow BAAC the flexibility to finance
credit demands not specifically identified at the time of appraisal and also
to correct the regional imbalance within the project by increasing lending in
the North and the Northeast. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from BAAC that farm plans for new prototype subprojects would be subject to
Bank review and agreement prior to commitment of funds by BAAC.
3.10      BAAC, assisted by the concerned technical agencies, has already
conducted field surveys to identify the need for and feasibility of new
lending categories. Some categories have been prepared for review by the
first supervision mission. BAAC's review has indicated that the new lending
categories would probably include financing of fresh fish culture (B 50
million), the ongoing new village development program (B 25 million), and
BAAC's ongoing term lending (B 35 million) handled by four branch offices, all
located in the North and the Northeast. Orchard development (B 60 million) in
the East and the South, and backyard dairy development (B 15 million) located
in the Central Region and the North, are also under review. Other possibi-
lities under consideration are financing of shallow and deep well irrigation
in the Northeast, and rubber planting in the South.
Project Technical Assistance Component
3.11      Technical Assistance to BAAC.  The project would finance 108 man-
months of consultants and 135 man-months of overseas staff training to assist
the institution building of BAAC.  Three consultants would be provided for a
total of 90 man-months and would comprise:
(a)  a program development specialist, to assist in improving BAAC's
reporting system and in establishing a management information
system;
(b)  a training specialist, to develop appropriate training courses for
different functions and prepare a master plan for staff career
development; this specialist would take over from the consultant
provided by the Colombo Plan (para. 2.06);
(c) an agricultural credit specialist, to further improve the capability
of BAAC's staff to identify and appraise new projects (para. 2.07).
An additional 18 man-months of short-term consultants' services would be
provided for special assignments. Five staff would participate annually in
overseas training courses (from 3-12 months) sponsored by foreign universities
and governments or international agencies. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from BAAC that the qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of consultants to be employed would be acceptable to the Bank.



- 1 7 -
3.12      TraininR Program.  The project would provide funds for an intensive
training program to strengthen the cooperative system, including training for
senior staff of cooperatives, officers of CPD, and auditors of CAD. (BAAC,
however, would carry out its staff training programs without project
financing.) To make the training program for cooperative staff responsive to
the actuaL needs of' primary cooperatives, the Government has adopted several
principles to be implemented under the project.  The first principle is to
promote decentralization of planning and implementation respon,sibilities from
Bangkok to regional training centers. Ten regional centers would each be
responsible for about seven provinces and would develop specif'ic courses for
individual provinces; in the future, simple courses could probably be
implemented by provincial CPD officers. The second principle is to develop
the training capacLty within CPD, which is also necessary for in-service
training of CPD andl CAD staff. The third principle is to mobilize staff of
CPD, CAD and BAAC for follow-up of trained staff during their visits to
cooperatives. Without constant on-the-job advice through frequent follow-up,
the trained staff may fail in solving the actual problems they encounter at
the district level.
3.13      The training program would provide one to three day courses for aver
40,000 farmers (present and prospective cooperative members), 1-2 day courses
for 1,600 cooperatLve committee members, and basic courses of up to 60 days
for 1,600 cooperative staff. Annual in-service and advanced training courses
would also be established. The courses for farmers would promote cooperative
principles in an effort to gain their trust in the strengthened cooperative
system. The present 9 mobile training units would be increased to 12 units,
and priority would be given under the project to mounting an intensive
promotional campaign. Training of cooperative staff would use existing
training facilities of various government agencies and would mobilize
instructors from universities, BAAC and other government agencies to lecture
on special subjects at the head office center (at CPD's Bangkok Training
Center) and ten regional centers (at Chainat, Khon Kaen, Chiengmai, Songkla
and six other locations to be designated). Each center would be headed by a
director and would have a minimum staff of three, with specializations in
management, accounting, marketing and training.
3.14      Both CPD and CAD would organize training programs for their own
staff.  Training would be provided for 800 officers of CPD and 450 auditors
of CAD. Each agency would focus on priority subjects, but in:Ltially, the
program would familiarize present staff with the new roles of CPD (promo-
tional and advisory functions) and CAD (advisory function). Also, a course
may be necessary for staff who are involved in restructuring cooperatives
in poor f'inancial condition. A joint course for staff of CPD. CAD, BAAC and
other government agencies would be planned to deepen their understanding of
major cooperative issues and to improve their working relationship in assist-
ing cooperatives. In addition, annual in-service and advancedL training cour-
ses would be established. All these courses would be held at CPD's Bangkok
Training Center.



- 18 -
3.15      To support the training program proposed by the Government, the
project would finance: (a) the improvement and expansion of two existing
training facilities, (b) construction of about 40 houses for CPD training
staff of the ten regional training centers, (c) 3 mobile training units,
(d) purchase of audiovisual aids and teaching materials for underequipped
mobile units, (e) employment of expatriate (144 man-months) and local (432
man-months) consultants, and (f) fellowships for about 40 CPD and CAD staff to
visit other Asian countries. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that the qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of the consultants to be employed would be acceptable to the Bank.
In addition, the Government would provide subsidies for cooperatives being
restructured to cover training expenses and to enable them to raise salary
levels, so that they can retain the services of trained managers and staff.
The Government would provide a monthly subsidy of B 3,000 ($150) for
managers, B 2,000 ($100) for senior staff, and B 1,800 ($90) for cashiers.
These allowances are considered adequate to attract qualified staff to
cooperatives in small towns. Subsidies would last for five years but would be
reduced by 20% annually.
3.16      Restructuring of Cooperatives.  Another major government program to
strengthen the cooperative system is the restructuring of cooperatives in poor
financial condition. Under this program, the multi-operations of a coopera-
tive would first be examined thoroughly and a restructuring plan would be
prepared, based on the findings of an evaluation team consisting of staff from
CPD, CAD and BAAC. Assisted by a consultant, CPD would establish operational
procedures for evaluation, train members of field evaluation teams, and review
the proposed restructuring plans./l During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of the consultants to be employed would be acceptable to the
Bank.
3.17      Improvement of the Auditing System.  CAD does not have sufficient
auditors to audit cooperatives and associations once a year as legally
required. The shortage of CAD auditors would become serious under the new
cooperative structure, with the additional responsibilities and activities
assigned to CAD, such as auditing problem cooperatives on a quarterly or
semiannual, basis, establishing control systems in cooperatives, and counsel-
ling on managerial and operational matters. Furthermore, participation
in the program to evaluate and prepare plans for restructuring cooperatives
would also require a large number of auditors. Therefore, the Government has
decided to increase the number of auditors from the present 150 to 500, and
also to establish 72 local offices in all provinces by 1984, so that auditors
can be located outside Bangkok and become familiar with local conditions.
/1 Considering the complexity and the large number of cooperatives to be
restructured, the evaluation operation is scheduled to be completed in
about five years.



- 19 -
During the three-year project period, 290 additional auditors would be
employed; with project financing, about 50 provincial offices would be
established and about 50 houses constructed as an incentive for relocation of
qualified auditors to provincial offices.
3.18      Review of Oil Palm Development.  The project would f-inance 8 man-
months of consultants to be employed by CPD to prepare a comprehensive plan
for the three oil palm settlement schemes now being developed without proper
planning, and to conduct a sector review to formulate a master development
plan for the oil palm sector in the South. The replanning would be conducted
by a team of consultants (i.e. an economist/financial analyst,, a land use
planner/surveyor, a land settlement agronomist, an oil palm production
specialist, and an oil palm processing specialist). The consultants would
recommend actions to rehabilitate the slow growing oil palms planted under
poor cultural practices (on an estimated 5,700 ha), and a plan for settlement
of new areas. BAAC is prepared to finance on its own a pilot plan for
rehabilitation, but sources of funding for full rehabilitation of the 5,700 ha
and settlement of new areas would be explored separately. The sector review
would update the findings of a regional study conducted in 1974 that consi-
dered parts of Southern Thailand suitable for oil palm cultivation. Prior to
launching a large-scale program, the Office of Agricultural Economics (OAE)
would formulate a master development plan. Because oil palm cultivation is
still new in Thailand, no local specialists are available to assist in
undertaking this review. The project would therefore finance two expatriate
consultants (a senior economist and a tropical tree specialist) for a total of
3 man-months to assist OAE in its review.  During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that the qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditicons of the consultants to be employed would be acceptable to
the Bank.
3.19      Study of Supporting Systems for Lending to Small Farmers.  Small
farmers in Thailand have traditionally been denied access to institutional
credit. With this in mind, BOT initiated a study to review the experience in
other countries with different supporting systems for lending to small
farmers. The Government, however, has further decided to conduct a study to
select a suitable supporting system to reduce the risk to BAAC and the
commercial banks iLn making loans to small farmers. Therefore, the first phase
of the study would establish a definition of small farmers to be assisted. A
survey of small farmers to find out the present status of farming, types of
credit need, obstacles denying access to institutional credit and other
related -problems such as storage, marketing and processing would be necessary.
The second phase would be to first select a system most appropriate for small
farmers to obtain credit from BAAC and the commercial banks, and then to
prepare a plan to introduce the system. The project would finance two
expatriate consuIltants employed by OAE for a total of 8 man-months (one to
assist in each step of the second phase) to assist the Government in carrying
out this part of the study. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that terms of reference for the study would be acceptable
to the Bank, and ithat the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of the consultants to be employed would also be acceptable to the Bank.



- 20 -
Cost Estimates
3.20      Table 3.1 presents a summary of project cost estimates.  Details
are provided in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2. Total project costs (including taxes
and duties) are estimated at about $37.6 million, with a foreign exchange
cost of $19.0 million or 50%. A total of 432 man-months of local technical
assistance would be utilized for training, at an estimated total cost of
$432,000. The average man-month cost (based on local individuals' fees and
local allowances) is expected to be about $1,000. In addition, at an
estimated total cost of $2.0 million, a total of 281 man-months of expatriate
technical assistance would be utilized for the training program, assistance to
BAAC in improving its operations, in restructuring cooperatives, in replanning
settlement schemes, in conducting an oil-palm sector review, and in carrying
out a study to devise ways of reducing the risks to agencies involved in
direct lending to small farmers. The average man-month cost (based on
individuals' fees, international travel and local allowances) is expected to
be about $7,000.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
% total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  project   %
---- (B million) ----  -----($ million) ----   cost    F.E.
Lending
On-farm         125.09  151.81   276.90   6.26    7.59   13.85    37         55
Shrimp culture  27.35   27.05    54.40   1.37    1.35    2.72         7      50
Oil palm          2.91    8.29    11.20   0.14    0.42    0.56         1     74
Nonspecified    97.00   97.00   194.00   4.85    4.85    9.70    26          50
Subtotal    252.35  284.15   536.50  12.62   14.21   26.83    71         53
Technical Assistance
BAAC              1.90   29.36    31.26   0.10    1.47    1.57        4      94
Training prog.  77.67   46.29   123.96   3.89    2.30    6.19    17          37
Cooperative
staff       39.65   23.67    63.32   1.99    1.17    3.16
CPD staff      32.37   14.38    46.75   1.62    0.72    2.34
CAD   "         5.65    8.24    13.89   0.28    0.41    0.69
Other            40.83   20.31    61.14   2.03    1.02    3.05        8      33
Subtotal    120.40   95.96   216.36   6.02    4.79   10.81    29         44
Total Project
Costs           372.75  380.11   752.86  18.64   19.00   37.64   100         50



- 21 -
Financing
3.21      The Bank loan of $19 million would finance 54% of project costs,
exclusive of taxes and duties. This would cover all of the estimated foreign
exchange costs. Funds for the lending component and for technical assis-
tance to BAAC would be onlent directly to BAAC by the Government at the same
interest rate as the rate of the Bank loan.  The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk. Table 3.2 shows the proposed financing arrangements:
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Project components           Subborrowers   BAAC   Government  Bank    Total
Lending                            4.54      6.76       1.71/a  13.82    26.83
Technical assistance to BAAC        -          -         -        1.57     1.57
Training program                    -          -        3.44      2.75     6.19
Other technical assistance          -          -        2.19      0.86     3.05
Total                        4.54       6.76       7.34    19.00    37.64
/a Includes costs for survey, design, supervision and construction of
basic infrastructure.
BAAC's contribution would come from internally generated funds. The
Government contribution to the line agencies for the training program and
other technical assistance programs would be made available under the normal
budgetary allocatiLon. These allocations, as well as the proceeds of the Bank
loan, would be released to the line agencies through MOF. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would make the
required funds available to the line agencies.
3.22      It is a normal practice of farmers in Thailand to complete on-farm
development works during the dry season in order to avoid losing a wet season
paddy crop. Preparation for financing the coming dry season crops is well
advanced with the support of BAAC and other agencies. Lack of funding would
delay the implementation of on-farm development subprojects. To assist BAAC
to start financing subprojects for implementation in 1980, retroactive
financing of up to $600,000 would be included in the loan to cover disburse-
ments against local contracts for on-farm development subprojects after
March 1, 1980.
Procurement
3.23      Construction works under subprojects for on-farm development,
fishponds, settlers' housing, land clearing and preparation, and other civil
works (about $17 million), and similar works under the training program for
training facilities and staff housing (about $2 million), consist of a large
number of small items widely dispersed in area and time. They could not be



- 22 -
combined into contracts of sufficient size to be of interest to international
contractors. There are sufficient local contractors to ensure adequate
competition. Therefore, contracts for civil works would be carried out
following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.24      Equipment, machinery and other farm supplies (about $2.0 million)
would be purchased locally by subborrowers under the overall supervision and
guidance of BAAC to ensure quality and reasonable prices. There are
sufficient local suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate competition.
However, subborrowers would be required to solicit at least two price
quotations from local suppliers and to present the quotations to BAAC for
disbursement. Audiovisual aids and other equipment (about $0.6 million) and
vehicles (about $0.5 million) under the technical assistance component would
be procured by the line agencies through local competitive procedures
acceptable to the Bank, with the exception of small lots of $10,000 or less,
which would be procured by prudent shopping through normal commercial
channels. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on procurement
procedures.
Disbursements
3.25      Disbursement of the loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) 55% of the subloans disbursed by BAAC;
(b) 50% of the cost of civil works contracts for training and other
facilities;
(c) 50% of the cost of audiovisual aids and other equipment;
(d) 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost, or 55% of off-the-shelf
cost, of vehicles; and
(e) 100% of the cost of consulting services, overseas training and
fellowships.
3.26      Disbursements for BAAC subloans would be made against certified
statements of expenditures; disbursements in the other four categories would
be fully documented. Supporting documentation would be retained by CPD,
CAD, OAE and BAAC and would be made available for inspection by Bank super-
vision missions. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1984, about 18 months after the completion of commitment under
the project (Annex 3).
Accounts and Audit
3.27      Separate accounts of all financial transactions under the project
would be maintained by CPD, CAD, OAE and BAAC and audited annually by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These accounts, together with the
auditor's comments and opinions, would be sent to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year. BAAC would also send to the Bank its
general audit report. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on
accounting and auditing procedures.



- 23 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Government would designate the Long Term Credit Advisory Commlit-
tee on Agricultural Credit to be responsible for coordinatiP   f all project
activities conducted by participating agencies. Under this project coordinat-
ing committee, task forces would be organized by the concerned agencies to
be in charge of coordination at the working level, particularly for integra-
tion of credit with other support services, from the early stages of identi-
fication through to implementation.
Credit Operations
4.02      BAAC would be responsible for implementing the lending component in
coordination with other government agencies who provide technical assistance
to farmers.  Subloans would be made directly to individual farmers as well as
to members of qualified cooperatives./l Since most of the cooperatives in the
project areas are in poor financial condition and ineligible to participate
immediately, BAAC would mainly extend loans directly to farmers; however,
lending through cooperatives would be initiated as soon as they are restruc-
tured under the government program and recover their eligibility for partici-
pation. As an apex bank, BAAC would assist cooperatives to improve their
lending capability so that they become eligible for onlending to member
farmers under the project.  This approach would initially be promoted on a
pilot basis in four provinces in the North and the Northeast. BAAC would
also continue to improve its own operational capacity for identification,
appraisal, supervision and collection.
4.03      Organizational Structure of BAAC.  The Loans Department at head
office would be responsible for the lending component and would be assisted
by the branch offices.  However, the Planning Department at the head office
would, in collaboration with the Loans Department, identify, a,ppraise and
seek Bank approval of prototype subprojects for new subloan categories
(para. 3.09).
(a) Loans Department. In 1978, the present Loans Department was estab-
lished by merging two departments responsible, respectively, for
short- and medium-term loans, and for long-term loans. The primary
responsibilities of the unified Department are to oversee the
lending operations conducted by branch offices and to review loan
applications to be approved at head office; the present authority
of branch-i managers for approval is up to B 40,000 for short- and
medium-term loans and up to B 80,000 for long-term loans to
individual farmers. The Department has five divisions; one is in
charge of disbursement and reimbursement under lending programs
financed by overseas loans and the other four are in charge of all
_L  Associations were not considered as lending conduits under the project
because of the new goverrment policy to incorporate them into the
cooperative system.



- 24 -
lending programs on a regional basis. Initially the Department
would be responsible for appraising subprojects, but this responsi-
bility would, with the approval of the General Manager, gradually
be transferred to the branches, although large-scale and complex
subprojects would still be directly appraised by the Department.
The Department now has 139 staff, but this would be increased to
handle the additional workload arising from the project.
(b) Planning Department. The Planning Department was established in
1978 to strengthen BAAC's planning function. It has four divisions,
of which the Project Division is responsible for identification of
new lending categories./l In the past, the Project Division
reviewed various investment schemes at the request of government
agencies or local leaders, and assessed their feasibility for BAAC
financing. Although still engaged for a short period in this new
task, the Division prepared, with the assistance of the FAO/CP
mission, the project proposal submitted to the Bank for appraisal.
The staff of 16 was increased to about 30 during 1979.
(c) Branch Offices. Branch staff would initially assist in, but then
assume responsibility for, the identification and appraisal of
subprojects; they would have primary responsibility for supervision.
At least one staff member in each branch office has completed an
intensive training course for term lending and is responsible for
implementing BAAC's ongoing term lending programs.
4.04      Subloan Terms and Conditions.  The major terms and conditions
included in the Loan Agreement to govern lending operations under the project
would cover (a) lending rates, (b) maturity, including grace period, (c)
limits on lending, and (d) collateral requirements. Further details would be
specified in BAAC's Rules and Regulations issued for implementation of the
project.  Coordination with government technical services, procedures for
appraisal and supervision, and other technical matters for lending would be
described in BAAC's credit manual. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from BAAC on terms and conditions of subloans.
4.05      BAAC lends to farmers at interest rates of 12% to 18% and to co-
operatives and associations at 12% (para. 1.10). The average cost of funds to
BAAC is projected to be close to 11%.  The present narrow spread would not
cover the additional costs for collection of institutional loans in arrears
and for restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition. Although
lending to cooperatives under the project would be minimal because mst of
them are not eligible for participation, a major issue for review during the
project period is the future increase of lending to successfully restructured
cooperatives. The impact of the increase on BAAC's long-term profitability
/1 The other three divisions are responsible for statistics and budgeting,
research and evaluation, and development of working systems (including
manuals and procedures).



- 25 -
would require close scrutiny because the viability of cooperatives must also
be maintained within the spread fixed by government-regulated interest rates.
4.06      Review of Loan Portfolio.  Overdue accounts to cooperatives and
associatio ; remain BAAC's main financial problem (para. 2.15). Verification
of the actual arrears situation, however, cannot be established with certainty
until completion of the government program which evaluates in detail the
financial condition of cooperatives. The program is scheduled to be completed
in about five years. During the three-year project period, about 350
cooperatives are planned for evaluation to be conducted jointly by CPD, CAD
and BAAC. Therefore, BAAC would carry out its own evaluation to reduce
arrears immediately and use the findings of the joint evaluation teams when
they become available for planning its long-term lending program to
cooperatives. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that BAAC would
conduct annually, and furnish to the Bank for its review promptly upon
completion, a loanL portfolio evaluation on the status and causes of arrears,
and plans for restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition.
TraininR Program
4.07      Training responsibilities would be assigned to CPD for farmers,
cooperative staff and CPD officers, and to CAD for its auditors. Within CPD,
one of its three deputies would be assigned full responsibility for the train-
ing program. Once the staffs of the regional centers are adequately trained,
they would assume full responsibility for planning and implementing a regional
training program; these programs would be coordinated by CPD's Training
Division in Bangkok. While CPD would be responsible for planning and
implementing the training program under the project, CLT (para. 1.11) is
expected to assume CPD's training responsibilities on a phased basis, by
region or by subject. In line with the transfer of responsibility to CLT, CPD
training staff (from its head office and regional training centers) would be
transferred to CLT. The Government is seconding administrative staff to CLT,
so that the transfEer of responsibility for training may begin during the
project period.
4.08      Consultants would assist both CPD and CAD in managing their training
programs. To improve CPD's farmer training program, consultants would assist
CPD in establishing a system to assess the efficiency of its mobile training
units. CPD's head office center would be assisted for three years by two
expatriate consultants specialized in general management and in accounting and
financial management. They would assist CPD to identify training needs,
develop training programs and courses, prepare necessary training materials
and manuals, and develop evaluation criteria and procedures ior regional
training programs.  In addition, three local consultants in management or in
other specific subjects would assist the head office, as well as one local
consultant to assist each of the ten regional centers, particularly in train-
ing staff. The head office center would acquire a group of staff with higher
qualifications and wider experience who would be able to train and assist the
regional training staff on a regular basis. CPD and CAD would also be
assisted for three years by expatriate consultants in conducting separate
training programs for their own staff.



- 26 -
4.09      Review of Implementation Plan.  CPD and CAD would update the present
training program and implementation plans for review by the first Bank super-
vision mission.  This exercise is necessary particularly for the cooperative
staff training program because CPD was designated in January 1980 as the
responsible implementation agency. Refinement and updating of the plan would
be conducted on a continuous basis with the assistance of training
consultants.
Survey and Study
4.10      The OAE would be responsible for carrying out two reviews under the
project; both would receive extensive input from other agencies.  First, for
its review of the oil palm sector (para. 3.18), OAE would organize a working
group with representatives from concerned agencies. A master oil palm
development plan would be formulated by OAE with the help of expatriate
consultants. This plan would then be reviewed by a special committee with
representatives of concerned agencies, which would coordinate the plan with
other regional programs for tropical tree crops. Second, for the study of
supporting systems for lending to small farmers (para. 3.19), OAE and its
consultants would confer with concerned agencies in selecting a suitable
support system and formulating an action plan for implementing the system. A
special committee, consisting of representatives of the concerned agencies,
would review the recommendations of the study.
Reporting Requirement and Monitoring
4.11      Progress Reporting Requirement.  CPD, CAD, OAE and BAAC would submit
semiannual and annual progress reports to the Bank. The annual report would
form the basis of an annual review of the project by the Long Term Credit
Advisory Committee on Agricultural Credit, which would coordinate project
implementation, and the Bank. The implementing agencies would also maintain
up-to-date files, maps, and financial and other pertinent information on the
project, which would be available for review by the Bank.
4.12      Monitoring of the Cooperative System.  Considering the priority
given by Government to revitalizing the cooperative system and the numerous
programs being undertaken, monitoring of the entire cooperative system is
necessary. This coordinated approach would benefit the concerned government
agencies as well as the Bank. The CPD training and evaluation consultants
would prepare a proposal for monitoring, which would be reviewed by MOAC, CPD,
CAD, NESDB and BAAC.
4.13      Monitoring BAAC.  BAAC has already simplified its internal reporting
system, and responsibility for periodic data collection has been concentrated
in the Banking and Accounting Department. Analysis of the collected data is,
however, carried out mainly by the Planning Department.  BAAC would review
its present system and propose changes, to be discussed with the Bank, to
establish a management information system most suitable for BAAC. The system
would aim to:  (a) improve procedures for data collection and report formats
to reduce the large volume of paper flow and duplication in report content;
(b) ensure timely reporting; (c) collect data for preparing annual work



- 27 -
programs by region and lending category; and (d) evaluate the financial,
economic and social impact of individual lending programs. BAAC is reviewing
the use of computers for data processing. The project consultant would
undertake a review of BAAC's scope for using computers (e.g. by renting
computers owned by universities in Bangkok) and their cost.
5. MARKETING AND PRICES
Marketing
5.01      Rice.  In view of the expected increase in domestic consumption A
and world market dlemand for rice, marketing of the 68,500 toiis of paddy
produced under thie project would present no problem. Rice farmers would
usually sell their produce to merchants at the farm gate, and to private or
cooperative rice imills. Most of the paddy would be milled locally and the
surplus product sent to Bangkok. The marketing infrastructure and facilities
are well established.
5.02      Fish and Shrimp.  In view of the relatively low price of fish
compared to meat, and increases in per capita income and population, the
demand for fish and fish products in Thailand is projected to grow at about 5%
per year up to 1985. There is an ample local market for the increases in the
the fish supply generated under the project. Most shrimp is exported from
Thailand to Japan and Hong Kong (which imported about 12,500 tons in 1976);
other markets in Europe, the US, and the Middle East have also started
importing shrimp from Thailand. The acceptance of Thai shrimnp in these major
markets ensures ready outlets for the projected output of 405 tons of shrimp
under the project.  The shrimp farmers would sell their products mainly
through middlemen, but CPD would assist the cooperatives organized by settlers
to market their products jointly and obtain better terms.  Adequate cold
storage facilities are available within the vicinity of the project areas.
5.03      Palm Oil.  At present, domestic demand for palm oil is about 8,000
to 10,000 tons, most of which is imported due to the small area bearing fruits
and lack of facilities to refine crude palm oil.  Domestic consumption is
expected to grow at about 7% annually, and reach 20,000 tons around 1985, at
which time production of local palm oil is also expected to reach 20,000 tons.
Further major expansion of oil palm growing in Thailand would, therefore,
have to rely mainly on export markets for palm oil, the possibilities of which
would be explored under the sector review. However, production under the
proposed demonstration plots would be 5,000 tons of fresh fruit bunches which
would produce about 1,000 tons of palm oil and 250 tons of kernel palm oil,
only a small proportion of the projected domestic consumption; its impact on
supply would accordingly be negligible.
/1 Domestic consumption of rice grew at an average of 3.5% while production
grew at aboul: 3.0% during the last decade. The decline in exports is
expected to continue in the future primarily due to growth in population.



- 28 -
Prices
5.04      Table 5.1 shows the current financial and economic prices used in
project analysis as well as projections thereof based on the Bank's commodity
price projections. The farm-gate prices for the project's products are
considered to be satisfactory and are adequate to ensure the necessary
incentive for farmers to make investments.
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED FARM-GATE PRICES OF
OUTPUTS AND MAJOR INPUTS
(Baht)
1979                            1985
Financial  Economic          Financial  Economic
Crops (B/ton)
Paddy                        3,000       4,200             3,000      5,000
Shrimps                     50,000      61,000            50,000    61,000
Fish                          1,800      2,200             1,800      2,200
Palm oil (FFB)                 n.a         n.a               960      1,130
Inputs
Fertilizer (B/ton)
Ammophos                   3,800       3,420             5,240      4,720
Urea                       5,000       4,500             6,300      5,600
Seeds (B/ton)
Local paddy                3,000       4,200             3,000      5,000
HYV                        5,000       5,000             5,750      5,750
Labor (B/man-day)                30         27                 30        27
6. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Beneficiaries
6.01      The proposed project would benefit large numbers of farmers either
directly or indirectly, especially those with small holdings; the total number
of direct beneficiaries is estimated at about 9,000 farmers. An appreciable
proportion of the nonspecified lending component would assist farmers in the
two poorest regions, the North and the Northeast. By restructuring
cooperatives and providing technical assistance to BAAC, the project would
contribute towards strengthening BAAC as the apex cooperative bank, and
cooperatives, its onlending conduits, as the major agricultural credit
institutions serving farmers throughout the country. In the long run, the



- 29 -
project would assist the socioeconomic development of rural areas, particu-
larly by providing credit to small farmers who have traditionally been
denied access to institutional credit.
Production
6.02      As Tabl,e 6.1 shows, the project would generate increased production
of commodities, notably rice (and to a lesser extent fish and shrimp), which
are important for the Thai economy and are also suitable as al source of income
for small-scale farmers.
Table 6.1: MAIN INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
(At Full Development)
Quantity           Gross VaLue/a
Products                  (tons)          Baht M        $ M
Paddy                   68,500             205.5       10.3
Shrimps                    405               20.3       1.0
Oil palm (FFB)           1,250/b              2.4       0.1
Total                           228.2       11.4
/a At 1979 constant prices.
A  Equivalent to 1,000 tons of palm oil and 250 tons of palm
kernel oil.
Rice and shrimp production would increase exports while palm oil would reduce
imports, thus helping to improve Thailand's increasingly unfavorable balance
of trade.
Rates of Return
6.03      Financial rates of return on the three specified subproject invest-
ments (which amou,nt to over 60% of the proposed lending to subborrowers) range
from 25% to 36%, the aggregate being 26% (Table 6.2). These rates indicate an
adequate incentive to subborrowers. The estimated rate of return for shrimp
culture is the most favorable, but is sensitive to changes in benefits
(Annex 4). A 20%, fall in benefits would reduce the financial rate of return
from 36% to 23%. Economic rates of return were calculated using a standard
conversion factor of 0.92. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 38%
for on-farm development, the cost of which is $13.9 million; 32% for shrimp
culture, the cost. of which is $2.7 million; and 27% for oil palm development,
the cost of which is $0.6 million. The average economic rate of return on
these components, which account for 45% of total project costs, is 35% (Annex
4). Financial and economic rates of return are given in Table 6.2 below.



- 30 -
Table 6.2: RATES OF RETURN
(Percentages)
Subproject                  Financial            Economic
On-farm development                 25                  38
Shrimp culture                      36                  32
Oil palm development                27                  27
Aggregate                           26                  35
Employment Impact
6.04      At full development, the project would benefit directly about 9,000
families and create incremental employment opportunities equivalent to about
2,000 man-years./i Settlement schemes and on-farm development would be the
major sources of increased employment, primarily as a result of higher crop-
ping intensity. The employment opportunities thus created would be suited to
unskilled labor and would therefore benefit the landless rural poor and those
with small farm holdings.
Foreign Exchange Impact
6.05      Thailand is one of the world's leading rice exporting countries.
However, the growth of Thai rice exports has been declining because domestic
consumption increased while the increase in production slowed down due to
cultivation of marginal land. Thus, while the rice produced under the project
may not be exported, it would meet domestic demand which would otherwise have
to be met from exportable production. Accordingly, the project's output is
treated as if it would be wholly exported. At full development, the project
would generate incremental rice production valued at B 324.6 million ($16.2
million) f.o.b. Bangkok, and fish and shrimp valued at B 34.8 million ($1.7
million); in addition, there would be import substitution through palm oil
valued at B 3.9 million ($0.2 million c.i.f. Bangkok); the total foreign
exchange earnings would therefore amount to B 363.3 million ($18.2 million) at
full development. Foreign exchange expenditures at full development are
estimated at about B 18 million ($0.9 million) annually, thus giving a net of
B 345.3 million ($17.2 million).
/1 This does not include employment opportunities accruing to contractors
during the development period, but includes an estimate of opportunities
to be created by subprojects of nonspecified lending categories.



- 31 -
Project Risks
6.06      Project risks vary according to the category of subproject lending,
the quality of subproject appraisal and preparation, and the thoroughness with
which the training and technical assistance components are iunln.emented and
then integrated into daily operational procedures of the staff involved.
Risks common to all subproject lending would include: failure to achieve
projected yields resulting from inherent difficulties in teaching and imple-
menting new agricualtural practices, higher than expected development or
production costs, and costs rising faster than agricultural prices. These
risks are not unusual for agricultural projects, and they would be minimized
under the proposed project through the hiring of qualified technical staff.
The provision for an intensive training effort for relevant government, BAAC,
and cooperative staff should help to ensure that the agricultural credit
program is carried out effectively and efficiently.
6.07       Several risks could affect the outcome of the technical assistance
component for str,engthening the cooperative system. The major risk is that
farmers might not be convinced of the viability of cooperatives which had
failed in the past and, therefore, the merits of becoming members under the
new cooperative system. Considering the conservative attitudes in rural areas
and the pervasive distrust of cooperatives by many farmers, :Lnitial success in
restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition would be essential to
encourage participation. The second risk is that progress in restructuring
cooperatives on a large scale may take longer than expected because of the
complex problems in management and business operations that must be solved.
The third risk is that the present training capability may be inadequate to
train on an average four senior staff from each of about 400 cooperatives.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a)  BAAC would use its best efforts to ensure that not less than 50%
of loan, proceeds allocated for subloans would be used to finance
subloans to small farmers (para. 3.02);
(b)  funds would be made available from the budget to tlhe responsible
line agencies for survey, design and supervision o:E civil works
carried out by private contractors and construction of major
facilities to be provided by the Government for development of
settlement schemes, and for the training program and other technical
assistance programs (paras. 3.06, 3.07 and 3.21);
(cc) BAAC wculd furnish to the Bank for its approval a model proposal
of a farm plan for each new lending category prior to commitment
of funds by BAAC (para. 3.09);



- 32 -
(d) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of consultants would be acceptable to the Bank
(paras. 3.11, 3.15, 3.16, 3.18 and 3.19);
(e)  terms of reference of the study to review supporting systems for
lending to small farmers would be acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.19);
(f) the implementing agencies would follow agreed procurement
procedures (paras. 3.23 and 3.24);
(g) BAAC's accounts, together with the auditors' comments and
opinions, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year. BAAC would also send the Bank its general
audit report (para. 3.27);
(h) BAAC would adopt subloan terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.04); and
(i) BAAC would conduct annually, and furnish to the Bank for its
review promptly upon completion, a loan portfolio evaluation on
the status and causes of arrears, and plans for restructuring
cooperatives in poor financial condition (para 4.06).
7.02      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $19.0 million, with repayment over 20 years,
including 5 years of grace. The Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



- 33 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 1
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC
Operational Indicators, 1973-1978 /a
1973   1974   1975   1976   FY77   FY78
No. of branches                             58      58     58      58      58     58
No. of field units                         301    317    331    352    388    409
Total staff                              2,366  2,577  3,108  3,130  3,352  3.622
of which:
Head office                              279    329    409    438    508    559
Branch and field urLits                2,087  2,248  2,699  2,692  2,845  3,073
No. of individual farmer
clients ('000)                           380    516    605    618    702    780
No. of cooperative c:Lients                n.a.   n.a.   562    638    641    772
No. of farmers' association clients        n.a.   n.a. 1,524  1,582  1,550  1,574
/a  From 1973-76, BAAC's fiscal year is from January 1 to December 31.  From
1977 onwards, BAAC's fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
AJRICULTURAL CRfDIT PROJECT
MAC - Trom  and Conditions of  no olA Landing Proaram   /
Type of                                                                                                          Interest       Tar
lo.n                Purpo--                        h rim loon amount                       Collateral         rat  p... 2   (Years)            Approval authority                       Reaerk
Individu-l
Short-torn    Markting                       Par all abort- and mdiom-rm                Pledgiog of produc             7          1/2      Fr  a1  loans (.ecl4diro             Prodoutton loans  are  ndvuoad oa
loee                                       And group Suarantee                                 tsrflunial                          the banis of credit oa.ds per ra-L
chib is fired f or each crop and
Mani um lo.e (fhethr oe or more                                                               Starch Moger, up to b 80,000    pvith , and shich .rs rev tied
lucre) is snhjeut to the fo11lloin                                                           Depaty is-rerl M.rega.,               a_1aly.  The maimu  loan.
ovarall  niete:                                                                                 B 00,000 to B 1 MMi  li            amounts for  hort- cnd  ediu-
G.o-ral Merager, B I  illion to   term  arm  revised pooicdically to
1.  R 20500f per booracer undur group                                                           ' 2 million                        account for inflationary incL. as.a.
Agricoltural prodoction           ga_rutieo.                                                                                                                     The brooch aseafer'n approval
npoecee                                                                CGroup gusruntre  and/or       12       1 - 1-1/2  Ba.rd of Diroctora,                    orthority is ala  trevised period&
2.  R 100,000 per boroccr who mot-    orogtga  of lied                                          ovar B 2 mdllion                  itiily in lint  rith r-viatoos of
E.gga  lend ae colla.rsl.                                                                                                      loan liits.  Last diabors-.ente
ero soda in re.h.
3.  Marketing loam to 851 of ap-
praitel -Iod    of producs a.d up
to S 50,050.
Modiu-t.rm   Draft animols, fern                                                        Semi ss above.                12          3-5
iepluots, catar puss,   4. Agricoltnrel production lobse
li-tstonk, fiah ponds ,           Itmitsd to so amuat that lair
land tl-arirg  srll               repaymset dos nort  osred 601
irrigation corks.  tc.            of amual oath surplus.
Long-to-rn     Pirociog of agricul Mtul  Miniue S 10,000                                Land mortgage plu             12         15-20                                          Minimum 201 contribr tion
invesionnen                   MootMum B 2.0  illior                      e-ratite  if neceSeery                                                                  by borrotoer.  Last diebhrsn
mor in trunks.
Rof irercing of old debts   40,000                                       Land mortSgaa end             IZ           10
Aaricol1tra1 Coorotives                                                                                                                                 Los to Cooarrivi -end Parnars' Associations
Cuek c..sdit   lalandieg to meebsos         (i) 0 3 ntllo  0for 130 mssbers            Olortgago of ismavblo          9            5      All loan approval othority           Th. miniu  withdrawa  by en in-
(ii) 12 tiesa of  quity for co-op  s         property.                                          raste  ith Head Offic a    e          ttertion to drtrrelnd anonally
*  years in operation                                                                     follocel                             bheed or eetoblichad criteria
which tabs inot accou.t itie pret
General Maregn    p to               repeymnt performnce end overall
0 2 million                        oParations.
lord of Directirre,oe
Purchase of firm sopplias  6 tim_  of equity                             Semi .. abho.                 9             1        3 2 millior                        CaGsh  rdit egrasoants arm
ranaead .very 5 yeare.
Marketing of meshere'        ' 5 million and a01 of vslu  of             Pledge of prodorn a.. d/       7            i
prodaco                      pledged produce                             or mortsgse of             Penalty
msovable property.             2
Long-tare      Major inves tent in           B 5 million                                Mor tgge of icovable                                                                     Minimus 202 .ontrihbtion by
agricultural projects                                                   property.                     6          15-20                                           borrcse.
Parmec' Aesucistior
Caah oredit.  Rlendina to mma.re             (i)  3 1 million for 50 meabsrs end    Mort.sg  of i_oveblo               9            3                                           Cash credit aersenta are
e 2 million frr 50-150 mbo.s    property.                                                                                     r-newed every 3 yoars.
(ii) I times of nqcity
Parchaso of farm  uppliee  4 titne of shara capital                      Sam  as abovo.                9             1
Loaeg-t        Pima cisg of goiculcurel  B 5 sillion                                    Mortgage of iovubls           6-8         15-20                                          minimum 201  ootribetirn  by
irve tmnts                                                              property.                                                                                borroser,.
/e Thea. worn the ter_ and .onditione ea of December 1979.



- 35 _                                                      ANNEX 1
Table 3
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC
Loans Disbursed by Maturity/Type /a
(B million)
1973               1974               1975               1976              FY77 .b              FY78
Amt.     %         Amt.           %   Amt.    %    %   Amt.    %    3   Amt.             %      Amt.    %    %
Loans to Individuals
Short term                            532          68    831          69  1,298          61  1,951          60  2,603          65  2,966           61
Medium term                           241          32    364          30    709          33  1,160           36  1,241          31  1,467          30
Long term                               -                   9          1      94          6    123            4    170           4    443           9
Subtotal                           773  (75) 100  1.204  (69) 100  2.101  (63) 100  3.234  (75) 100  4.014  (73) 100  4.876  (73) 100
Loans to Cooperatives
Cash credit for relending /c          246        100    351           90    772          89    691          85  1,069           88  1,407          86
Cash credit for input supply            -                  36          9      82          9      51          6    101            9    122           7
Cash credit for marketing               -                   2          1       -                  1                  2           -     79           5
Long-term loans /d                      -                   -                 12          2      72          9      36           3     33           2
Subtotal                           Z46  (24) 100    389  (22) 100    866  (26) 100    815  (19) 100  1,208  (23) 100  1,641  (24) 100
Loans to Farmers' Associations
Cash credit for relending /.cL          3        100    143          100    379          98    282          98    256          97    179           98
Cash credit for input supply            -                   -                  8          2       6          2       7           3       4          2
Cash credit for marketing               --                                                        -                  -           -      -
Long-term loans /d                      -                   -                  -                  -                   1          -      -
Subtotal                             3   (1) 100    143   (9) 100    387  (11) 100    288   (6) 100    264   (4) 100    183   (3) 100
Total                           L 022 (100)         1.736 (100)        3.354 (100)        4,337 (100)         5.486 (100)        6.700 (100)
la  1973 through 1976 is on calendar year basis; from 1977 onwards it is fiscal year basis (April I to March 31).
/b FY77 covers a 15-month period.
/c For relending as short- and medium-term loans.
Id  For investment in fixed assets, mainly rice mills and storage godowns.



-36-                                    ANNEX 1
Table 4
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC: Balance Sheet. 1973-79 /a
(B million)
1973    1974    1975    1976    FY77        FY78
Assets
Cash on hand & due from banks              136      294      338     549   2,262       3,571
Institutional Loans
Loans to cooperatives                    785      966   1,642   2,173   2,536        3,008
Loans to farmers' associations             3      139      441     533      521        482
Accrued interest                           -       41       84     113       41         32
Less reserve for losses                   (7)    (20)    (51)    (91)   (145)         (306)
Institutional Loans Outstanding         781   1.126   2.116   2.728   2.953         3.216
Individual Loans
Loans to farmers                       1,101   1,446   2,473   3,849   4,403         5,680
Accrued interest                         113      138      213     331      306        408
Less reserve for losses                  (43)    (60)    (87)   (131)   (207)         (241)
Individual Loans Outstanding          1.171   1.524   2.599   4.049   4.502         5.847
Fixed assets less allowance for
depreciation                              71       92      106     115      124        152
Other assets (e.g., prepaid expense,
supplies, etc.)                           15       22       27      30       65         24
Total Assets                          2.174   3.058   5.186   7,471   9,905    12,810
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Savings deposits                          66       76     284      335      281        431
Time deposits                            185      400      583     595   1,298       1,591
Loan compensatory deposits               117      175      308     432      284        145
Deposits from commercial banks             -      201      1,671    3,161   4,539    5,586
Total                                   368      852   2.846   4,523   6.402        7.753
Others                                      43       55       96       61     127         66
Accrued interest payable                    32       53       79      113     168        199
Total                                    75      108      175     174      295        259
Long-term liabilities
Miscellaneous (MOF/OECF/AID)              54      226      195     375      544        954
Bonds                                    170      170      171     120        -          -
BOT rediscount                           257      420     515      981   1,006       1,990
Total                                 481      816     881   1.476   1.550        2.943
Equity
Paid-up capital                        1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,300         1,420
Reserves                                  57       57       57      57       57         57
Accumulated profit                       193      225      227     240      301        381
Total Equity                          1,250   1,282   1,284   1.297   1.658         1.858
Total Liabilities                     2.174   3.058   5,186   7.470   9.905    12.810
Estimated current ratio /b                 3.0      2.4      2.2     2.6      3.2        3.6
Total debt/equity                        0.7:1   1.4:1   3.0:1   4.7:1   4.9:1         5.9:1
Long-term debt/equity                    0.4:1   0.6:1   0.7:1   1.1:1   0.9:1         1.5:1
/a For 1973 through 1976, year ending is December 31; fron 1977 onwards year ending is
March 31.
/b Based on estimate of loans maturing within one year and excluding interbank deposits.



-37-                                ANNEX 1
Table 5
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC
Income Statement, 1973-78/a
(B million)
1973   1974   1975   1976   FY77  FY78
Income
Interest earned on:
Loans to cooperatives & farmers'
associations                            61      76    130    206    261    319
Loans to individual farmers              123    146    220    380    546    704
Deposits                                   8      20      13     23      76    152
Miscellaneous income                          1      1       1       1      18     14
Total                                   193    243    364    610    901  l,189
Expenses
Interest paid on:
Borrowings                                26      32      39     53      66    105
Deposits                                  21      42    121    286    446    533
Subtotal interest paid                   47      74    160    339    512    638
Administrative expenses                     82    103    141    173    208    269
Reserves for bad debts                      17      30      58     84    129    197
Total Expenses                          146    207    359    596    849  1,104
Net Income                               47      36       5     14      52      85
Ö()---- (  /b ------------
Interest                                    8.73   8.23   8.61   9.24   9.04   9.01
Other income                                0.43   0.78   0.34   0.38   1.05   1.40
Gross Income                           9.16   9.01   8.95   9.62  10.09  10.41
Interest expenses                           2.23   2.75   3.93   5.35   5.74   5.60
Administrative expenses                     3.88   3.82   3.46   2.73   2.33   2.32
Reserves for bad debt                       0.81   1.11   1.43   1.32   1.44   1.73
Total Expenses                         6.92   7.68   8.83   9.40   9.51   9.65
Net income                                  2.24   1.33   0.12   0.22   0.58   0.76
/a  1973 through 1976 is on calendar year basis; from 1977 onwards it is fiscal
year basis (April 1 to March 31).
/b  Percentage of average total assets.



-38 -                                   ANNEX I
Table 6
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC
Individual Loans-Collections Performance
(B million)
1973    1974      1975      1976      FY77       FY78
SHORT-TERM
Principal Collected /a
- Amount                      383      505      660      1,125      2,803      2,522
- % of amount matured          64       77        79        78         75         75
Arrears
- Amount                      219      147      213        317        953        838
- % of amount matured          36       23        21        22         25         25
MEDIUM-TERM
Principal Collected /a
- Amount                      130      172      185        325      1,037        997
- % of amount matured          48       61       60         64         63         64
Arrears
- Amount                      139      108      127        181        425        550
- % of amount matured          52       39       40         36         37         36
LONG-TERM
Principal Collected /a
- Amount                        0        0        0          0         39        126
- % of amount matured           0        0         0         0         98         99
Arrears
- Amount                        0        0         0         0          1          1
- % of amount matured           0        0         0         0          2          1
TOTAL
Principal Collected /a
- Amount                      513      677      845      1,450      3,879      3,645
- % of amount matured          59       73        74        74         71         72
Arrears
- Amount                      358      255      304        498      1,550      1,389
- % of amount matured          41       27        26        26         29         28
La Includes loans which were restructured.



THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT.
BAAC
Agina of Arrears of Individual Loans as of March 31. 1978
(Baht million)
Total            0-1 year   1-2 years   2-3 years   3-4 years   4-5 years  5-6 years   6-7 years   7-8 years   8-9 years   9-10 Years
Amount  Z       (%)/a  Amount  X   Amount  X   Amount  x   Amount  Z   Amount x   Amount  X   Amount  X   Amount  Z   Amount  X   Amount  Z
Short-term        705  100   (79)        487  (69)    100  (14)    44  (6)           18   (3)       9  (1)       10  (1)       11  (1)       14  (2)         9  (1)        3  (-)        >
Medium-term        187  100   (21)        107  (57)      21  (11)      14  (7)        7   (4)       7  (4)        9  (5)       12  (6)         6  (3)        3  (2)        1  (1)
Total         892 /b      (0)        594  (67)   121  (14)        58 (i)        25   (3)      16 (L)         19  (2)       23  (3)       20  2()       12 I()         4A()
/a  Figures in parentheses indicate arrears in each case as X of total arrears.
/b  In comparison with total arrears of B 1168 in Table 6, excludes (i) B 237 million of medium-term loans restructured during the year; and (ii) B 38
million of long-term loans in arrears not reported by aging. If arrears of long-term loans (B 38 million) were over two years, then total arrears
over two years are in the order of B 215 million or about 3.7% of loans outstanding.
Iv~ Iz



40 -
ORGANIZATIONAL - FUNCTIONAL CHART
OF
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
(HEAD OFFICEI
IDR *ornor DIRECTOR
|GENERAL MArAGER
-~~~~~ _ m - - - 1--m mm PUTY GENERAL MSANAGERSl
ERANCh EVALUATION CorMITUE,T
- EVALUA]pP9RFORMANCE oF                                                                                  OfICt OF OPI  iNG A
3"ANChUS AND tP"ANCh OFFICERS l-CNUT INTERNL AUOINGPctO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E R S   I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OOIT N                           LAOTN
ACTVITIRS ANO INSzCCTS L NpINC
OPPICE OP SECRETARY ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     OPRATON
-9VEDE1NANO IMPLEMENT
- RevlE DESGG AND IPLEAIET   of FC ON UCFCETARY                                                   ____UTINIZE BANKI OFFICERS O
WrORK PPOCEDURES ANO METhoDSJE     - CONDUCT GENERAL SECREARAL                                            ECWSOEES COMPLIANCE WITH
1____0  ____OU   _________      *       ACTIVITIES FOR TH*  SOAARO
L*        crTERM L ONKA CULO T
REViEW ANPPLICATIONS FOR                                                                               _          AC  N 7_  _        NT
LONG -TERM LOANS IASOVE    AIAt  OOEAIOA  IOEUI
APPROVAL AUTHORIITY OF                                                                                    N     T
REGIONAL LOAN DIvSION
MANAGERI TO INOIVISUALS
ANO lNSTITUTIONS           J
RUDGET COMMITTEE               I        EANKING AND ACCOUNTING               GENERAL AoMINISTRATIvE            PLANNING DEPARTMENT                   LOAN3 Of ^TMENT
- REVIEW SUDGET PREPARED SB y                 ODPARTMENT                          DEPARTMENT
SUDGET OIVISION AND EVALUATO
ACTUAL VS. UDGETED RESULTS
ANNUALLY
B ANKINGOIVISION D IVIDUALDPIRANDINRUIONS                        ||R ouCT OIVES.IN ENI N                 NORTLHEND R GAFFAGSION  V'DSVINS
I- ACCUIU;tS FUNDS "'OMz BOT,     |_REGISTPlArlON OF ESSENTIAL    | -|_PLANNING, FORMULATING        l  |        MONIOING OF PRFOGRAMS3
| COMERCIA L BANKS                  D  OCU"EMNrs GINGRAL AFPAlRs   |    CREDIT PROJECTS FORw OVERSEAS     II |  ACED BY OVERSEAS LOAN S
;|- hANOLUS CASh TRANSFORS ro        AMO FILING                          A l ND LOCAL LOANS                  EC -srETARY or LOAN COMMITTfEE
A NOFROM4 BRANCHES                   PA VID ro IIzANK' R EGULATIONS. tt   COOROiNATE WITh GOVERNMENT
I SANGIOK AREA                    OTHIER WORKING UNITS CONCERNED     INSTITUTIONS. AND FOREIGN         N | AVICE. ASSIST ANO CONTROL
-FPEARAINOP MANUALS POR                                                 NTTTOSN
AN=IGA ACTIVITIES                 FU LIC RELATIONS DIVISION                                              BRA______________ LNDING   1 OPERATIONS O
a|U MW¢RLToIsLVSlON          l                                         LENOING OPERATIONS
- GENERAL P IUC   ATIONS          STATISTICAL ANO BUDGETING          _ REVIEW NEED POt EXPANSION OP
ACCOUNTING DIVISION                     ACTIVITIES                       OV3O 
-  E AND CONTRIOL VARIOUS                                                - PUELICATIoN oP MAGAZINES  - PREPARATION Of ANNUAL  I- REVEW LOAN APPLICATIONS
ACCOUNTS OP THE 3ANKS ASSTS           JORNALS. ET                        BU                                     TO HEAD OFF            E
OK LIASILITIE4                                                         - MONITORING OF ACrUAL V..
- TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL PLANS.          LEGAL DIVISION                      EU| CTED R"ESULTS
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS. ACCOUNTING       - HANDLE LEGAL CASES o1          - COLLECTION oP STATISTClS          NORTHEAST REGION DIVISION
ANALYSISfOR BRANCHESOR OTHeR           TEE EANK                                                             SAME AS OATEER,AEGION
WORKING UNITS                                                                                          I1
- PREPARE INANCIALA  CCOUNTING SERVICES IVlISIOlN             DIVISION
RSEORTS rAsNNUALRE   O               - - SECURITY ANODGENERFAL         STUDY EONOMICANO                   CENTRALREGIONOIVIsION
- CONOUCTS ACTIVITIES OF                  OFfICE BUILOING MAIN-          SOCIAL CONDITIONS                     SAME As NORTHERN REVlON
STANOARDIZING ACCOUNTING               TENANCE                  J      OF CLIENT FARMER S
'PROCEDURES FOR ThE hEAD          _ __or______R INSTITUTIONS_
BOFICE ANG BRANCHES         I  PRSONNELOIVI510N                        ANALYSIS OF OELIQUENT LOANS        SOURTHERN REGION DIVISION
- PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.                                                 - SAME As NORTHERN REGION
MANPOWER PLANNING PERFOR.      WORKING SYSTEMO ODVELOPMENT
MANCE EVALUATION OF EANK'.     OIVIsION
|  OFFICERS ARO EMPLOYEE 3         REVIELWANOMOOIFICATIONOF
IOGRAPhY RECORS SALARY           RULES REGULATIONS PrRO-
ANO SENEFITS ADMINISTRAtION      CEDURES INSTRUCTIONS. MANUALS,
AND FOrUMS RELATING TO VARIOUS
B_ USINESS ACTIVITIES
TRAINING DIVISION
- PROVIDING TRAINING
TO SANK STAFF
-COORDINATE ACTIVITIES
WITH OTHER TRAINING
INSTITUTES
so,T G.n. - 20E25



- 41 -
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES (BRANCH)
BAAC
(HEAD OFFICE)
BRANCH
BANKING ANO                         AGRICULTURALCREDE
ACCOUNTING SECTION                           SECtION
BANKING      ACCOUNTING      INSTTUTIONAL    &INDIOUAL        LONG-TERM
UNIT            UNIT          LOANS UNIT     LOANS UNIT            UNIT
WrBa-24E
World Bank -20424



ANNEX 2
Table 1
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Detail Prolect Costs and PhasinR (Summary)
(Baht million)
Year                      Foreign
1       2        3     Total  Amount       %
Government Preliminary Works
On-farm development                     3.30    6.10    4.50   13.90    0.83    6
.Shrimp culture                         4.50    6.60    3.40   14.50    3.05   21
Subtotal                             7.80   12.70    7.90   28.40    3.88   14
Lending to Subprojects
On-farm development                    30.40   75.80  105.90  212.10  123.02   58
Shrimp culture                         10.40   10.40   10.40   31.20   19.66   63
Oil palm development                    5.80    1.60    2.20    9.60    7.10   74
Nonspecified categories                34.80   56.80  102.40  194.00   97.00   50
Subtotal                            81.40  144.60  220.90  446.90  246.78   55
BAAC Technical Assistance                 9.53    9.53    7.01   26.07   24.50   94
Training Program
Cooperative staff                      17.15   18.67   16.81   52.63   19.68   37
CPD staff                              20.67    9.78   11.23   41.68   12.48   30
CAD staff                               3.82    3.88    3.99   11.69    6.96   60
Subtotal                            41.64   32.33   32.03  106.00   39.12   37
Special Technical Assistance
for Cooperatives
Restructure of cooperatives             2.18    0.50    0.50    3.18    1.56   49
Improvement of auditing                11.40   12.86   19.60   43.86   13.08   30
Subtotal                            13.58   13.36   20.10   47.04   14.64   31
Other Technical Assistance
Replanning of settlement schemes        1.32    -        -        1.32    1.04   79
Oil palm sector review                  0.20    1.12    -         1.32    0.52   39
Study for lending to small
farmers                               0.60    0.78    1.34    2.72    1.27   47
Subtotal                              2.12    1.90    1.34    5.36    2.83   53
Total                               156.07  214.42  289.28  659.77  331.75   50
Price contingencies                  10.84   29.58   52.67   93.09   48.28    -
Total Prolect Costs                 166.91  244.00  341.95  752.86  380.03   50



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 1
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Detail Project Costs and Phasing
(Baht miljlion)
Year
1        2         3       Total
1.  Government Preliminary Works
(a)  On-farm Development
Topographic survey                      0.30     0.40      -           0.72
Cadastral survey                        0.50     0.70      -           1.20
Designing/supervision                   2.00      3.60     2.50        8.10
Other                                   0.50      1.40     2.00        3.90
Subtotal.                           3.30      6.10      4.50       13.90
Price contingencies                     0.30     1.30      1.40        3.00
Total (Ca)                           3.60     7.40      5.90       16.90
(b)  Shrimp Culture
Survey and designing                    0.20     1.10      -           1.30
Canal and road construction             3.80     4.50      2.20       10.50
Other                                   0.50     1.00      1.20        2.70
Subtotal                            4.50      6.60      3.40      14.50
Price contiLngencies                    0.40     1.30      1.00        2.70
Total (10                           4.90      7.90      4.40       17.20
Total Preliminary Works             8.50    15.30    10.30         34.10
2.  Lending to Subprolects
(a)  On-farm Development
Land clear:Lng/leveling                13.93    34.68    48.46        97.07
Roads and dlitches                     12.27    30.70    42.94        85.91
Structures                             3.10      7.62    10.60        21.32
Other                                   1.10     2.80      3.90        7.80
SubtotaL                           30.40    75.80   105.90       212.10
Price contingencies                     2.70    14.50    30.70        47.90
Total (.E)                         33.10    90.30   136.60       260.00



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 2
Year
1        2         3        Total
(b) Shrimp Culture
Land clearing                           0.70     0.70      0.70        2.10
Ponds and dikes                         3.70     3.70      3.70       11.10
Check gates                             2.35     2.35      2.35        7.05
Housing and shelters for pumps          1.65      1.65     1.65        4.95
Pumps                                   1.50      1.50     1.50        4.50
Other                                   0.50     0.50      0.50        1.50
Subtotal                           10.40    10.40    10.40         31.20
Price contingencies                     0.90     2.00      3.10        6.00
Total (b)                          11.30    12.40    13.50         37.20
(c) Oil Palm Development
Land clearing/preparation               2.60     -         -           2.60
Seedling and planting                   1.90     -         -           1.90
Fertilizer/chemicals                    0.90     1.20      2.00        4.10
Other                                   0.40     0.40      0.20        1.00
Subtotal                            5.80      1.60      2.20        9.60
Price contingencies                     0.60     0.30      0.70        1.60
Total (c)                           6.40      1.90      2.90       11.20
(d)  Nonspecified Categories                34.80    56.80   102.40       194.00
Total Lending to Subprolect        85.60   161.40   255.40        502.40
3. BAAC Technical Assistance
Consultants (expatriate)                   5.88     5.88      3.36       15.12
Fellowships                                3.65      3.65     3.65       10.95
Subtotal                            9.53      9.53      7.01       26.07
Price contingencies                     0.95     2.00      2.24        5.19
Total BAAC Tech. Ass't             10.48    11.53       9.25       31.26



45 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 3
Year
1        2         3        Total
4. Training Programe
(a)  Cooperative Staff
Improvement of facilities                1.32     -         -            1.32
Staff housing                           2.71      4.06      4.07       10.84
Equipment and aids                      2.55      1.30      -           3.85
Vehicles                                 1.26     0.72      -            1.98
Consultants (expatriate)                 3.36     3.36      3.36       10.08
Consultants (local)                      2.40     3.12      3.12        8.64
Subsidy for trainees                     1.83     3.05      3.20        8.08
Operational costs                        1.72     3.06      3.06        7.84
Subtotal                           17.15    18.67    1L6.81        52.63
Price contingencies                      1.63     3.78      5.28        10.69
Total (4                            18.78    22.45    22.09         63.32
(b)  CPD Staff
ImprovemerLt of facilities             10.08      -         -          10.08
Equipment and aids                      2.33      -         -           2.33
Vehicles                                 1.28     -         -            1.28
Consultants (expatriate)                1.68      1.68      1.68        5.04
Fellowships                             0.24      0.24      0.24        0.72
Salaries                                0.31      0.31      0.31        0.93
Subsidy for cooperative staff           4.35      7.25      8.70       20.30
Operational costs                       0.40      0.30      0.30       10.00
Subtotal                            20.67      9.78    11.23        41.68
Price contingencies                      1.70     1.24      2.13        5.07
Total (b)                           22.37    11.02    13.36         46.75
(c) CAD Staff
Equipment and aids                      0.23      0.15      0.20        0.58
Vehicles                                0.54      0.36      -           0.90
Consultants (expatriate)                 1.68     1.68      1.68        5.04
Fellowships                             0.24      0.24      0.24        0.72
Salaries                                0.31      0.54      0.84        1.69
Operational costs                       0.82      0.91      1.03        2.76
Subtotal                             3.82      3.88      3.99       11.69
Price contingencies                     0.34      0.72      1.14        2.20
Total  Xc                            4.16      4.60      5.13       13.89
Total Training Program              45.31    38.07    40.58        123.96



-46 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 4
Year
1        2         3        Total
5. Special Technical Assistance for
Cooperatives
(a)  Restructure of Cooperatives
Equipment                               0.04      _         _           0.04
Vehicles                                0.18      -         -           0.18
Consultant (expatriate)                 1.47      -         -           1.47
Salaries                                0.42      0.42      0.43        1.27
Operational costs                       0.07      0.08      0.07        0.22
Subtotal                            2.18      0.50     0.50        3.18
Price contingencies                     0.19      0.06      0.09        0.34
Total (a)                            2.37      0.56      0.59        3.52
(b)  Improvement of Auditing
Staff housing                           4.50      3.50      4.50       12.50
Equipment                               1.13      0.82      1.14        3.09
Vehicles                                1.73      1.25      1.73        4.71
Salaries-                               3.08      5.65      9.59       18.32
Operational costs                       0.96      1.64      2.64        5.24
Subtotal                           11.40    12.86    19.60        43.86
Price contingencies                     0.92      1.99      4.46        7.37
Total (b)                          12.32    14.85    24.06        51.23
Total Special Tech. Ass't          14.69    15.41    24.65        54.75
6. Other Technical Assistance
(a) Replanning of Settlement Schemes
Consultants (expatriate)                1.12      -         -           1.12
Operational costs                       0.20      0         0           0.20
Subtotal                           1.32     -         -           1.32
Price contingencies                     0.13      -         -           0.13
Total (a)                          1.45      _        _           1.45



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 5
Year
1        2         3       Total
(b) Oil Palm Sec:tor Review
Consultants (expatriate)                -        0.42      -           0.42
Operational costs                       0.20     0.70      -           0.90
Subtotal                          0.20      1.12     _            1.32
Price contingencies                     0.02     0.23      -           0.25
Total i(b)                        0.22      1.35      -           1.57
(c)  Study for Lending to Small Farmers
Consultants (expatriate)                -        0.28      0.84        1.12
Operational costs                       0.60     0.50      0.50        1.60
Subtot.al                         0.60      0.78      1.34       2.72
Price contingencies                     0.06     0.16      0.43        0.65
Total (c)                         0.66      0.94      1.77        3.37
Total Other Tech. Ass't           2.33      2.29      1.77        6.39
Total Proiect Costs             166.91   244.00   341.95       752.86



- 48 -                           ANNEX 3
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
($'000)
Bank fiscal year                                          Cumulative
and semester                                           disbursement
FY81 1st                                                      -
2nd                                                 1,200
FY82 1st                                                 2,000
2nd                                                 5,200
FY83 1st                                                 7,700
2nd                                                11,700
FY84 1st                                                14,600
2nd                                                17,700
FY85 1st                                                19,000



- 49 -                                                ANNEX 4
Table 1
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Aggregate Financial Costs and Benefits /a
(Baht million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7  Years 8-25
Incremental Benefits
On-farm development                      (0.9)    11.7      46.5    100.5    105.9    111.0    115.8        118.5
Shrimp culture                            2.6      8.9      16.6     21.5      22.7      22.7      22.7      22.7
Oil palm development                      1.0      0.5       1.1       ?.7      4.3       5.1       5.3        5.4
Total                               2.7      21.2     64.2    124.7    132.9    138.8    143.8         146.6
Incremental Costs
Investment
On-farm development                   33.2      89.6    135.8
Shrimp culture                        11.4      12.3      13.3
Oil palm development                   6.3       1.9       2.9       3.0
Subtotal                           50.9    103.8    152.0        3.0
Production
On-farm development                     1.0      8.7      24.9     42.2      42.2      42.2     42.2       42.2
Shrimp culture                         1.6       4.8       8.0      9.5       9.5       9.5      9.5        9.5
Oil palm development                     -         -         -         -      0.9       0.7      0.7        0.7
Subtotal                            2.6      13.5     32.9      51.7      52.6     52.4      52.4       52.4
Total costs                        53.5    117.3    184.9       54.7      52.6     52.4      52.4       52.4
Net incremental benefits                  (50.8)   (96.1)  (120.7)    70.0       80.3      86.4      91.4      94.2
Rate of return: 26.3%
Sensitivity Analysis                      IRR %
Yields down 10%                           22.1
Yields down 20%                           17.9
Investment cost up 10%                   24.0
Investment cost up 20%                   22.1
Production costs up 10%                  24.6
Production costs up 20%                  23.0
/a  See project file for details of a specific lending category.



ANNEX 4
-50 -                                                        Table 2
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Ap:gregate Economic Costs and Benefits /a
(Baht million)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Years 8-15  Years 15-25
Incremental Benefits
On-farm development              (1.3)     11.0    52.0      120.0   133.0   14D.0   147.0          150.5         150.5
Shrimp culture                    3.2      11.0    20.1       26.2    27.7    27.7    27.7           27.7          27.7
Oil palm development              1.3       0.6      1.2       3.1       5.0      6.0      6.2        6.3           6.1
Total Benefits              3.2      22.6    73.3    149.3   165.7   173.7   180.9            184.5         184.3
Incremiental Costs
Investment
On-farm development           30.8       77.6   109.2        -        -        -        -           -
Shrimp culture                10.5       11.7    12.2        -        -        -        -           -            -
Oil palm development            6.3       2.7      3.1       3.2      -        -        -           -
Subtotal                   47.6      92.0   124.5         3.2      -        -        -          - _
Production
On-farm development            4.3       12.0    22.0       37.8    35.5    34.1    34.1           34.1         34.1
Shrimp culture                 1.5        6.0    10.4       11.8    11.8    11.8       11.8        11.8         11.8
Oil palm development            -         -        -         -         1.5      1.5      1.6        1.6           1.5
Subtotal                    5.8      18.0    32.6       49.6    48.8    47.4    47.5           47.5          47.4
Infrastructure
On-farm development             3.3       6.7      5.4       4.0      1.3      -        -           -
Shrimp culture                 4.6        7.1      4.0       1.2      0.8      0.8      0.8         0.8          0.8
Subtotal                    7.9      13.8      9.4        5.2      2.1      0.8      0.8        0.8           0.8
Total Costs                61.3    123.5   166.5         58.0    50.9    48.2    48.3          48.3          48.2
Net incremental benefits          (58.1)  (101.2)  (93.2)        91.3   114.8   125.5   132.6         136.2         136.1
Rate of return: 35.2%
Sensitivity Analysis              IRR %
Yields down 10%                  30.7
Yields down 20%                  25.9
Investment cost up 10%          32.7
Investment cost up 20%          30.6
Production costs up 10%          33.6
Production costs up 20%          32.1
La  See project files for details of a specific lending category.



- 51 -                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 3
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis /a
On-i arm                                Oil palm
develoDuent       Shrimp culture         develoPment         Aggregated proiect
FIRR %   EIRR %    FIRR X   EIRR %       FIMR %   EIRR X        FIRR %   EIRR x
Yields
Down 10%               21.0      33.3       29.6     25.4        24.3      24.0         22.1     30.7
Down 20%               17.0      28.8       22.8     19.6        21.4      20.6         1L7.9    25.9
Development Costs
Up 10%                 22.7      35.2       33.0     29.5        24.6      24.9         24.0     32.7
Up 20%                 21.0      32.9       30.2     27.6        22.4      22.7         22.1     30.6
Production Costs /b
Up 10%                 23.3      36.7       33.3     28.8         -         -           24.6     33.6
Up 20%                 21.2      35.3       30.7     26.1         -         -           23.0     32.1
/a  See project files for detaLils of a specific lending category.
/b  Production costs for oil palm development up to the fourth year were capitalized.



- 52 -                             ANNEX 5
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the ProJect File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
Al. World Bank, Thailand: Towards a Development Strategy of Full Participa-
tion, May 5, 1978.
A2. USAID, Rural Financial Markets in Thailand: Assessment and Recommenda-
tions, May 19, 1978.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Economic Feasibility Study on
Palm Estate Projects in Southern Land Settlement Cooperatives, January
1978.
B2. FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme, Thailand Agricultural Credit Project
Preparation Mission, March 19, 1979.
B3. National Economic and Social Development Board, A Five-Year Comprehen-
sive Plan for the Development of Agricultural Cooperatives, February
1979.
B4. Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, Annual Reports,
(latest for 1978 fiscal year).
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Role of the Bank of Thailand in Agricultural Credit
C2. Oil Palm Development
C3. Strengthening of the Cooperative System
C4. Farmers' Cooperative Organizations
C5. Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
C6. Financial and Economic Rates of Returns Analysis



-   -                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 14506
LLJ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                                                                                                       X'- 
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
LU                                               O.~~~~~~~~~~~II-    L                                                                   .-
3: <                                                                                    i
Je 40        -- 
-~~~ <                                                                                      0.. ~~LJ 
0                                                                         LUU
4~~~~~~~~~~
K   ~~~~~~~~                    /                                                                                                        /~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o L,~                                                                                                    14
~~-    O~~) ~~                                                                                                        _________________________________________~~~~E
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"  Z A- 
(5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEBRIl



