Document of            FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2727-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
February 28, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribtion aud may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bunk authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =    Thai Baht (B)
B 1.00           =    $0.05
$1.00            =    B 20
B 1 million      =    $50,000
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC   - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT    - Bank of Thailand
CAD    - Cooperative Auditing Department
CPD    - Cooperative Promotion Department
MOAC   - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NESDB  - National Economic and Social Development Board
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC)
Amount:         $19.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace with interest at
8.25% p.a.
Relending
Terms:        Same as to the Borrower
Pro_ject
Description:  The proposed project is designed to expand the term lending
capacity of BAAC and help strengthen the cooperative system as
a vehicle for channeling credit and other services to small
farmers. The credit component of the project would support
BAAC's lending program for three specified categories (on-farm
development, shrimp culture and oil palm development), as well
as unspecified categories, which would be identified and
appraised by BAAC during project implementation. The total
lending program would finance subprojects throughout Thailand,
but with not less than half the funds onlent to small farmers;
about 9,000 farm families would increase their production and
incomes as a result of borrowing through BAAC's expanded lend-
ing operations. The technical assistance component of the
project would finance programs for training cooperative
managers and staff, assisting and restructuring financially
weak cooperatives, and improving the cooperative auditing
system. In addition, the proposed project would provide
technical assistance for several studies and for strengthening
BAAC in the areas of planning, credit, financial management and
training. The main project risks center on failure to achieve
projected yields or an unfavorable relationship developing
between production costs and agricultural prices. The provi-
sion of qualified technical staff and an intensive training
program should help ensure that the agricultural credit program
is carried out effectively and efficiently.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                        Local  Foreign  Total
---- ($ million) ----
Ciredit activities
Specified categories                   7.8       9.3    17.1
Nonspecified categories                4.8       4.9     9.7
Technical assistance to BAAC             0.1       1.5      1.6
Cooperative training program             3.9       2.3      6.2
Other technical assistance               2.0       1.0      3.0
Total project cost                 18.6     19.0    37.6
Financing
Plan:        Government                               7.3        -       7.3
Bank                                      -       19.0    19.0
BAAC                                     6.8        -      6.8
Subborrowers                             4.5        -      4.5
Estimated Disbursements:    Bank FY   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
----------- ($ million) ------------
Annual                 1.2     4.0       6.5      6.0      1.3
Cumulative             1.2     5.2      11.7    17.7    19.0
Rate of Return:      The weighted average for the specified credit components
(45% of project cost) is 35%; quantification of benefits
was not attempted for the other components.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2704-TH, dated February 15, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KINGDCM OF THAILAND FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $19.0 million to help
finance an Agricultural Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years including five years of grace with interest at 8.25% p.a. The proceeds
from the loan relating to the credit component would be provided to the Bank
for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) at 8.25% p.a. BAAC would
on-lend these funds to final beneficiaries at interest rates of 12% to 18%
p.a. for individual farmers, and 12% p.a. for cooperatives.  The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Taward a Strategy of
Full Participation"' (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress.  It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflec-
ted differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the
political decision-making process within the country. The government formed
in November 1977, under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
has moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried
to stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress
in the latter was, however, affected by Vietnam's involvement in Kampuchea
and the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand.  These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high level Government attention and led to significant
increases in military expenditures.



- 2 -
4.        A new constitution was promulgated in December 1978, and elections
were held in April 1979, thus returning Thailand to civilian rule. No party
won a majority of the seats in the lower house; the largest block was won by
the Social Action Party led by the former Prime Minister Kukrit Pramoj. The
upper house was appointed and comprised mostly Kriangsak supporters. The
majority of the combined lower and upper houses selected General Kriangsak as
the new Prime Minister. Kriangsak thus formed a coalition government, but
after a brief initial period of cooperation, the opposition in the lower,
elected house became increasingly critical of the Kriangsak Government and
opposed many reforms and policy changes undertaken by the Government in the
areas of financial institution reform, interest rate structures, and energy
pricing policies. Kriangsak reacted with an extensive cabinet reorganization
effective in February 1980.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good though
there has been some deceleration in recent years. The average annual growth
of real GDP from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.5% per capita. Real
agricultural growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The
cultivated area increased by about 4% a year, water control was improved,
irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including
maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. Agriculture has also
been a major contributor to export growth.  Until recently, the Government
was able to maintain economic stability but inflation now appears to be acce-
lerating. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%,
and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970.
All this was achieved with a limited inflow of foreign resources and, until
recently, the resource gap remained at about 5% of GDP.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a from 8.3%
in the 1960s.  In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and part of
1974, this deceleration was partly obscured by a domestic investment boom.
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, however, which led the
Government to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975.



- 3 -
Inflation in subsequent years has continued to rise, reaching an estimated 13%
for 1979, and projected at 13-15% in 1980. Substantial growth of the
agricultural sector contributed to rapid expansion of 8.7% of the economy in
1978, but a combination of poor agricultural output and adverse effects of
external factors, primarily the oil price increase, reduced 1979 growth to an
estimated 6.7%, with little improvement expected for 1980. The budget deficit
is expected to exceed $1.0 billion in FY80 as a result of increased military
expenditures, an increase in civil service pay, and increased subsidies to
public enterprises as a result of the failure to raise electricity tariffs
sufficiently to offset fully oil price increases.
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural export are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe
restrictions on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community,
cassava and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the
International Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded
surpluses in 1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current
account deficit reached $1.2 billion, or 6% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to
be more than $2.0 billion in 1979, or about 7.5% of GDP. The overall balance-
of-payments deficit for 1979 is estimated at nearly $600 million. The
Government has significantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional
sources, from the Eurodollar market and from the IMF to finance these
deficits.  Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.  To
contain the balance-of-payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978, raised
tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number
of items, most notably gasoline. The prices of petroleum products have been
raised in March 1979, July 1979, and February 1980 for a cumulative increase
of about 100% for gasoline. The current price of gasoline is the equivalent
of about $1.80 per gallon (US).  After a proposed power tariff increase of
about 55% was rejected in November 1979, a lesser tariff increase of about 38%
was finally accepted in February 1980. This is insufficient to cover the
increased cost of fuel, and subsidies from the oil fund (partly funded by
revenues from other petroleum products) continue. Apart from raising prices,
the Government has also taken some energy conservation measures to contain the
oil import bill which is expected to jump by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite
almost no increase in the volume of imports. With a view to encouraging
domestic savings and curtail the flight of capital abroad, the Government
has raised interest rates by 3% at the beginning of 1980.
8.        The growth in incomes has not been equitably distributed throughout
the country, and at present there are very significant regional differentials
in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure. The regions are
very different in terms of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and
present quite distinct problems for future development. The Central Region,
including Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by
roads, telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the
other three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash crops



-4-
have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of
those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice
culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping
patterns and agricultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural
poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in
the Northeast and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the
low incomes of this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages
throughout the econoay.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Govermnent has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact.  However, the current severity of
the macroeconomic problems facing the country (inflation, energy prices, large
budgetary and balance of payments deficits) and the absence of a political
concensus have made it difficult for the Government to deal with the problem
of rural poverty.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth fron about 3% during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977. The target
for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, the growth in labor force
necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has benefited
households unevenly and created further income disparities that could threaten
the social cohesion of the country. At the sane time, additional fertile
land, which has supported the growth of agricultural production and exports in
the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these factors,
continued reliance on the past pattern of development may lead to: a
deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next decade; persis-
tently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of unemployment or
underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer
segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled
workers. Thus, a shift in the development pattern is necessary for social as
well as economic reasons.



12.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary to
ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or
at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has focused primarily on short-term economic management and
the provision of basic economic and social services. In order to achieve a
relatively smooth transition, the Government will now have to undertake more
coordinated long-term policies and actions in areas of resource management and
balanced regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector.  But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force.  In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output which accounted for 90% of
industrial production achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to. efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction
in the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportu-
nities and balanced regional development. Projected public sector development
expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in
real terms over the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues
and strategies only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet
the Plan's economic and social objectives are defined only in general terms.
The Government has now embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86)
and the Bank and agencies of the Government are undertaking a number of
studies to help ensure that the Fifth Plan would provide an unambiguous basis
for the allocation of resources and the formulation of development po.licy and
program. These studies may help identify possible areas of Bank lending for
structural adjustment.



-6-
Financing Req uirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low compared
to other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections but a much greater effort will be
needed in the future.
16.       During the coming 5-10 years, the demand for external resources is
also likely to increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over
10% and increased domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in
the price of imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large
trade and current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-
1980s. As a result of these external factors, considerable structural
adjustment will be required to restore equilibruim in the external accounts.
This will involve greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures,
promoting agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive
protection in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing
major capital intensive investments until such time as the economy can afford
then and their economic justification is clear.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200
million.  The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector.  The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt.  Current estimates of Thailand's
external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group meeting as a result of oil price increases. The need for continued
concessional aid is perhaps now more acute. In addition, external agencies,
inclulding the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated
project lending to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have
high social benefits, but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To
achieve the level of external resource transfer that is now required, it is
necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange component is low,
to finance some local currency expenditures.



18.       It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private, currently about 15%,
should not exceed 20%. Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports
and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports, these debt service require-
ments will be within Thailand's capacity and should not endanger its credit
standing. It should be noted, however, that these projections assume a
significant level of concessional assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of December 31, 1979 had signed 51 loans amounting to about
$1,411 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $236.4 million
for irrigation; $391.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban devel-opment; $52.3 million for
educ:ation; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six
IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Barnk loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of December 31, 1979.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecomnunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35% of
lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which, prior to
FY75, were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.



- 8 -
21.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to move
even further in designing programs which help the rural population, particu-
larly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by recent
economic growth. A combination of education, agricultural research and
extension, credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen.  However, the major
problem is the absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most
remote farmers.  Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will
continue, with increased emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation
potential in the northern, northeastern and southern regions. The program of
transportation, electrification, water supply and telecommunications projects
will also continue to have a rural focus.  A key element of the strategy
outlined in the Basic Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation
of increased economic activity outside of Bangkok.  The bulk of the Bank
Group's urban and industrial lending will, therefore, be directed to projects
which enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the
agricultural economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be
aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban
population and the development of low-cost, replicable programs to meet the
demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting
scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation and implementation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will
continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare sound
projects. The resource requirements for infrastructure development are large,
and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds in projects where it can
have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes, mobilizing other resources,
and directly facilitating growth in rural areas. The Bank is also expanding
its support of the industrial sector through its economic and sector work as
well as selected projects, in order to help promote exports and develop labor-
intensive industries and industrial activities in the regions. This type of
support would complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below 30%
of total public external debt by 1982 as Thailand diversifies its borrowing
program. The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding would fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of December 31, 1979, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand.  IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller



-9-
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sp ge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and
projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue to
help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial
institutions and money market developments.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Out of Thailand's population of 44 million, about 35 million (or
80%) reside in rural areas and depend primarily on agriculture for their
livelihood. Despite rapid structural changes in the Thai economy, the
agricultural sector continues to be dominant, employing about 75% of the labor
force and producing about 30% of gross domestic product and about 60% of total
exports. The recent increase in agricultural employment (1.4% p.a.) was less
than the increase in the rural labor force (3% p.a.) which resulted in
substantial rural-urban migration.
26.       Much of the recent growth in agriculture (5.7% p.a. in the 1960s and
4.6% p.a. in the 1970s) has come from expanding the area of land under culti-
vation. In 1979, however, agricultural production declined by about 2% after
achieving a 9% growth in 1978. Major crop yields and cropping intensity have
changed little on a national basis in recent years. Wlhile rice has become
relatively less predominant in agricultural value added, some upland crops,
particularly maize and cassava, have grown in importance. The overall sound
performance of Thai agriculture is in part due to a vigorous private sector
and government investments in irrigation facilities and roads. Until
recently, agricultural support services such as research, extension, credit,
and input supply were given insufficient emphasis. These services need to be
improved and expanded to achieve higher crop yields in irrigated and rainfed
areas and to develop rural nonfarm employment.
27.       The average annual income of a farm household nearly doubled between
1970 and 1976 to $950 p.a. due to the increased cropping area and the
relatively high prices for farm products. Despite this progress, about one
third of the rural population remains in absolute poverty, defined as a per
capita income of less than $90 p.a. Furthermore, continued growth of the
agricultural sector will become more difficult as the supply of new land
available for cultivation diminishes; in fact, the national average farm size
may already be declining because of pressures of the growing rural population.
Government Policy and Development Strategy
28.       The Government is becoming increasingly concerned about these and
other emerging issues of longer-term development of the rural sector.  The
Government is stressing the need to achieve spatial balance in economic
development and to ensure that all socioeconomic groups benefit from growth.
In recent years, efforts have been made to assist low-income groups by helping



- 10 -
to raise agricultural productivity.  However, progress has been slow and often
hampered by the highly centralized administrative system and frequent and
inefficient duplication of functions among government agencies.  With the
increasing land constraints and the need to maintain the growth of the
agricultural sector, it is necessary to develop appropriate sector policies
and programs and to improve development management.
29.       Land Productivity.  Since new land brought under cultivation
generally has a lower yield potential, increased production and income must
come from higher yields and cropping intensity and diversification of crops.
In order for traditional farmers to make this transition, more effective
agricultural support services, such as research, extension and credit must
be readily available as well as physical inputs such as fertilizers and
improved seeds.
30.       Rainfed Agriculture.  The Government needs to expand its effort to
develop rainfed agriculture, which predominates in the North and Northeast
and presents the most acute problems of poverty, low yields, and natural
resource degradation. Development of this subsector will require substantial
investments in a number of areas, including:  (i) road construction to
improve the accessibility of isolated areas, (ii) soil and water conservation
works, (iii) programs of applied research and extension to meet the needs of
small farmers in different ecological conditions, and (iv) issuance of land
titles which would provide farmers with security of tenure, collateral for
institutional credit, and the motivation to improve their farming practices.
31.       Government Institutions.  Thailand's ability to promote future
agricultural development is presently constrained by inadequate planning,
implementation and monitoring capacity as well as inefficient delivery of
supporting services. These constraints reflect, in part, the highly
centralized nature of government administration, as well as functional
duplication and inadequate coordination among government agencies. There is a
critical need to define clearly the roles of various agencies involved in
devetlopment of the rural sector, including provincial and district offices.
Agricultural Credit
32.       In Thailand, credit to farmers has traditionally come from rela-
tives, traders and moneylenders.  With Government support, particularly
through the Bank of Thailand (BOT), institutional credit available to farmers
has been increasing in recent years. In 1978, the total institutional credit,
mainly short-term loans, to individual farmers and their organizations reached
about $852 million. An estimated 60% of agricultural credit needs were
financed by the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) and
the commercial banks. This rapid expansion in institutional credit facilities
was spurred by BOT regulations of 1975 establishing annual targets for
commercial banks' agricultural lending, which could be met either directly
through loans to farmers or indirectly through deposits with BAAC. Commercial
bani  deposits have been a major source of BAAC's funds.



- 1. -
33.       The impressive expansion of institutional credit has been accom-
panied by rapid growth in the demand for credit. The shift from expansion of
arable land toward intensive and diversified cultivation practices is creating
new demand for credit from farmers outside the irrigated areas. As a result,
the Government has recently decided to reorganize and revita ze the
cooperative system as a means of channeling new credit to smal  farmers and to
strengthen BAAC's capacity to finance cooperatives.
Bank Group Lending
34.       A primary aim of recent Bank-assisted projects in Thailand (i.e. for
agricultural extension services, livestock development, rubber replanting,
rural development, and irrigation) has been to strengthen the institutions
involved in agricultural and rural development and to assist the continued
diversification of the agricultural production base. These projects have
already had some impact on development of improved production techniques for
rainfed areas, diversification of crops, rural electrification, agricultural
extension, rural roads and rural water supply. In addition, projects in
agricultural research, and rural roads are under preparation. The proposed
project is designed to relieve some of the constraints which farmers face in
trying to obtain institutional credit and other assistance for improving and
expanding their production. It would be the first agricultural credit project
in Thailand to be supported by the Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the col-
laboration of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme. The project was appraised
in February/March 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Agricultural
Credit Project" (No. 2704-TH, dated February 15, 1980) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from January 14 to 21, 1980, with a Thai
delegation led by H.E. Klos Visessurakarn, Thailand's Ambassador to the USA.
Project Objectives
36.       In view of the limited opportunities for expanding the cultivated
area in the future, Thailand will need to increase yields and cropping
intensity on its existing cultivated areas if it is to maintain its agri-
cultural growth. This would be achieved mainly by improving agricultural
research, extension, credit supply, marketing and other services. These
services must be effectively provided to the small farmers who cultivate much
of the land; in particular, these farmers have never had access to formal
credit facilities, but have been forced instead to borrow from informal money
lenders at high interest rates. The proposed project is designed to support
both the general expansion of BAAC as the major supplier of agricultural
credit, and the restructuring of the cooperative system as a vehicle for
bringing credit and other services to small farmers.



- 12 -
37.       BAAC, which would implement the project, is already a relatively
efficient agricultural bank and has been expanding its lending operations
rapidly in recent years; however, BAAC needs to expand its staff and
operations if it is to meet the challenge ahead. Through the project,
resources would be made available to BAAC to expand its term lending
capability and to implement a larger term lending program. The lending
component of the project would provide funds to expand BAAC's term lending
program for three specified subloan categories (i.e., on-farm development,
shrimp culture and oil palm development) plus other nonspecified categories to
be identified and appraised by BAAC during implementation.
38.       The Government proposes to restructure and strengthen cooperatives
to establish a more efficient credit and services delivery system to small
farmers throughout Thailand. It plans to strengthen the Cooperative Promotion
Department (CPD) and the Cooperative Auditing Department (CAD), the two
government agencies within the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC)
with responsibility for overseeing the cooperative system, and to have CPD
train the staff of cooperatives. The technical assistance component of the
project would finance programs to strengthen the cooperative system (i.e.
programs for training, restructuring cooperatives, and improving the auditing
system), consultant services for BAAC, and several minor studies.
Detailed Features of the Prolect
Lending Program
39.       Specified Lending Categories.  A large proportion of loan funds
($9.4 million) would be onlent for three identified lending categories:
(a) On-Farm Development. It is expected that subloans to groups of
farmers would finance on-farm development on about 11,200 ha of
paddy fields in the Central Region. BAAC would begin providing
loans for this type of investment to supplement the inadequate
public financing of these activities; prospective borrowers would
therefore need to be made aware of their repayment obligations to
BAAC under this type of lending. Borrowing requests would be
initiated by a group of farmers with irrigable paddy fields in
contiguous areas for on-farm development. The proposal would be
reviewed by the Provincial Land Consolidation Committee while BAAC
would appraise subprojects considered feasible. Investments would
cover land leveling, construction of irrigation and drainage ditches
and access roads, and realignment of plot boundaries. The on-farm
civil works would be carried out by small local contractors who
would be supervised by the Royal Irrigation Department and BAAC.



- 13 -
(b)  Shrimp Culture.  In the South, subloans are expected to finance
about 225 farmers in 2 settlement schemes for shrimp farming.
Cultural techniques suitable for the settlement schemes are well
established in Thailand. The Department of Fisheries would assist
s-tlers in particular by conducting an intensive training course
and establishing a demonstration pond in each scheme. Investments
would cover land clearing, construction of ponds and living
quarters, as well as the purchase of pumps and other equipment and
tools. Priority for settlement would be given to landless inhabi-
tants in the province as well as to farmers who have been displaced
by government infrastructure projects.
(c) Pilot Oil Palm Development. Also in the South, subloans are
expected to finance the establishment of 350 ha of oil palms by
about 220 farmers in 3 existing settlement schemes for oil palm
cultivation. These plots would be used to demonstrate improved
cultivation practices, since practices adopted by earlier settlers
can delay fruit bearing by 3-10 years. Investments would cover
land clearing and preparation, purchase of planting materials and
farming implements, and all cash outlays for development up to the
fourth year, i.e., the first year of fruit bearing using good
cultivation practices. The Cooperative Promotion Department would
be the responsible agency for implementation in cooperation with
BAAC.
40.       Nonspecified Lending Categories.  The proposed project is designed
to improve BAAC's capacity to identify, appraise and implement sound credit
programs in the agricultural sector. Accordingly, $5.3 million of loan funds
has been allocated for nonspecified lending categories to allow BAAC to
finance new and innovative credit programs and to develop its operations
particularly in the North and the Northeast. A preliminary survey by BAAC
identified credit demands for financing fresh fish culture and new village
development programs (in the North and Northeast), orchards, backyard
dairying, shallow and deep well irrigation, and rubber planting in various
regions. Prior to committing funds for these subprojects, BAAC would prepare
model farm plans or prototype subprojects for the Bank's review (Section 3.09
of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Target Group and Regional Distribution.  Lending under this
project would aim to establish a nationwide credit system that benefits
small farmers in particular and to increase the share of agricultural credit
going to small borrowers. For the project, "small farmers" would be defined
as settlers on government schemes or farmers whose income is derived mainly
from farming activities but whose farm size is below the average for the
province. BAAC would use its best efforts to onlend not less than 50% of
the loan proceeds allocated for subloans to this target group (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement). Extensive effort is also being made to improve
regional distribution of credit. While the Central and Southern regions



- 14 -
would initially benefit from the specified categories, viable subprojects,
especially in the North and Northeast, would be appraised during project
implementation and would be financed from the nonspecified lending component,
thus improving the regional distribution of lending activities.
Technical Assistance
42.       Cooperatives.  The project would finance three programs to
strengthen the cooperative system:  (a) a training program for staff of
cooperatives, CPD and CAD, (b) assistance for financial restructuring of
cooperatives, and (c) assistance for improving the cooperative auditing
system. These programs are based on the findings of a comprehensive study of
the present cooperative system carried out by the Government with assistance
from USAID. The most significant recommendations approved by the Government
for implementation were that: farmers' associations be incorporated into the
cooperative system; an independent registrar of cooperatives be established
(this function is currently exercised by the Director General of CPD); the
Cooperative Societies Act be revised; and an intensive training program be
implemented for staff of cooperatives, CPD, CAD and BAAC.
43.       Training under the proposed project would be provided by CPD for
managers and staff of 400 cooperatives; by CPD's mobile training units to over
40,000 current and prospective cooperative members; by CPD to 800 government
officers involved with cooperatives; and by CAD to 450 government auditors
involved with cooperatives. Training would aim not only to strengthen the
management capacity of cooperatives but also to upgrade the supervisory and
auditing capability of CPD and CAD. The largest and most important training
component would be that for cooperative staff and managers.  CPD would conduct
the training at its head office and ten regional centers, assisted by about
576 man-months of consultant services (432 man-months of local and 144 man-
months of expatriate consultants). Courses would last one to two months. The
project would finance (a) improvements to and expansion of existing training
facilities, (b) construction of about 40 houses for CPD's regional training
staff, (c) establishment of three new mobile training units, (d) purchase of
vehicles, audiovisual aids and other equipment, (e) employment of consultants
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement), and (f) fellowships for cooper-
ative officers and auditors. To assist needy cooperatives in meeting
training expenditures and in providing better salaries for trained staff,
the Government would make an annual contribution out of budget funds.
44.       Financial management of cooperatives must be improved if they are to
retain the services of trained staff without continuous government budgetary
support.  Under the project, the Government would examine the operations of
cooperatives in poor financial condition and prepare a restructuring plan
based on a field evaluation conducted by staff from CPD, CAD and BAAC. CPD
would review and approve the plan. Project-financed consultants would
assist in the field evaluation and the review (Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
45.       In the past, the auditors' role was a narrow one of ensuring con-
formity to cooperative regulations and procedures. Under the new cooperative
system, their role would be expanded to include: (a) frequent visits to
problem cooperatives, (b) counselling on managerial and operational matters,
and (c) participation in the restructuring of cooperatives. Responding to the
perennial shortage of auditors and the inefficiencies resulting from auditors'
location in Bangkok, the Government has decided to increase CAD's auditors
from 150 to 500 and to establish local auditing offices in all 72 provinces by
1984. The proposed project would finance the establishment of local offices
in about 50 provinces, and construction of about 50 staff houses as an
incentive for qualified auditors to relocate from Bangkok.
46.       BAAC.  To assist BAAC in pursuing its institution building objec-
tives, the proposed project would finance three expatriate consultants for
about 90 man-months, short-term expatriate consultants for about 18 man-
months, and 135 man-months of fellowships for staff training abroad
(Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement). The three consultants would comprise
a program development specialist, a training specialist, and an agricultural
credit specialist.
47.       Studies.  The proposed project would also finance a team of
specialists to assist the Government in replanning oil palm settlement
schemes (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Replanning would cover
the preparation of a settlement plan for unpopulated areas and a rehabilita-
tion plan to revitalize the growth of oil palms planted on about 5,700 ha
under poor cultivation practices. New planting and rehabilitation would
follow the practices used in the demonstration plots (para. 39(c)). In
addition, the Government has decided to conduct, with the assistance of two
specialists, a sector review of the oil palm industry and to prepare a master
oil palm development plan for southern Thailand, where conditions are most
suitable for oil palm cultivation (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Technical assistance under the proposed project would also include a
study of supporting systems to facilitate lending to small farmers. The
Government is aware that in order to increase BAAC's and commercial banks'
lending to small farmers, some additional assistance to farmers is needed to
reduce the high risk associated with this credit. The Government would
conduct a study to define a target group of small farmers, and then select a
supporting system to help small farmers obtain credit more easily from BAAC
and commercial banks (Section 3.04 and 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Prolect Costs and Financing
49.       The total project cost (inclusive of taxes and duties) is estimated
at $37.6 million, of which $19.0 million, or 50%, represents foreign exchange
cost. The proposed loan of $19.0 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 50% of project costs, exclusive of
taxes and duties. The Government would finance $7.3 million, or 20% of



- 16 -
project costs; BAAC would finance $6.8 million, or 18%; and subborrowers would
contribute $4.5 million, or 12%. A total of 432 man-months of local technical
assistance would be utilized for training, at an estimated total cost of
$432,000. The average man-month cost (based on local individuals' fees and
local allowances) is expected to be about $1,000.  In addition, at an
estimated total cost of $2.0 million, a total of 281 man-months of expatriate
technical assistance would be utilized for the training program, assistance to
BAAC in improving its operations, in restructuring cooperatives, in replanning
settlement schemes, in conducting an oil-palm sector review, and in carrying
out a study to devise ways of reducing the risks to agencies involved in
direct lending to small farmers. The average man-month cost (based on
individuals' fees, international travel and local allowances) is expected to
be about $7,000.
Procurement
50.       Construction contracts for on-farm development, fish ponds, staff
and settler housing, training facilities, land clearing and other civil works
under the proposed project are too small and widely dispersed in location and
time to be suitable for international competitive bidding. Consequently,
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed.
However, small lots of audiovisual aids and other equipment amounting to
$10,000 or less would be procured through prudent shopping. Machinery,
equipment and other farm supplies would also be procured by subborrowers
through prudent shopping after soliciting at least two price quotations from
local suppliers (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
51.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 55% of the
subloans disbursed by BAAC, (b) 50% of the cost of civil works, audiovisual
aids, and other equipment, (c) 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost, or 55%
of the cost of locally procured vehicles, and (d) 100% of the cost of
consulting services, and overseas training and fellowships. To assist BAAC
to start financing subprojects to be implemented in 1980, retroactive finan-
cing of up to $600,000 would be included in the loan to cover disbursements
against local contracts for on-farm development subprojects after March 1,
1980. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.
Project Organization and Management
52.       BAAC would implement the lending component and the consultancy
services provided for its staff under the technical assistance component.
Since most cooperatives are in poor financial condition and ineligible
to participate immediately, practically all lending to farmers is expected to
be handled directly by BAAC, rather than through the intermediary of the
cooperatives. However, lending through cooperatives would be initiated as
soon as they are restructured under the goverment program (para. 44) and
have recovered their eligibility for participation.



- 17 -
53.        BAAC was established in 1966 as the successor of the Bank for
Cooperatives. Although cooperatives currently hold 1.5% of the paid-in
capital of $70 million, BAAC is a government-owned institution, and this is
reflected in the composition of its Board of Directors. Of the 11 members, 9
are selected irom government agencies, one is a representative of the
Commercial Bankers' Association of Thailand, and the General Manager of BAAC
is an ex-officio member. BAAC, with its head office in Bangkok, has 58
branches and 479 field offices in the 72 provinces. It is headed by a General
Manager and four deputies; BAAC's staff of over 3,600 includes a sizeable
cadre of well-qualified and motivated managers. To cope with the increasing
volume of business, BAAC is recruiting new staff and intensifying its training
program to upgrade staff capabilities. Under the strong leadership of its
present General Manager, BAAC has come to be regarded as one of the better
organized and staffed institutions in Thailand.
54.        BAAC is the single largest credit institution serving agriculture,
and its lending activities have grown rapidly from $130 million in December
1974 to $455 million by March 1979. Its charter authorizes it to finance
loans to individual farmers (individual loans), as well as to cooperatives
and farmers' associations. Loans to cooperatives and farmers' associations
(institutional loans) account for about 30% of annual disbursements and
about 30-40% of loans outstanding.  Poor management of many cooperatives and
farmers' associations has resulted in high arrears on institutional loans,
whereas repayment of individual loans has always been satisfactory. BAAC
lacks accurate information on the status of arrears on institutional loans,
because they are administered by cooperatives themselves. To exert greater
control over this type of lending, BAAC has instituted a system of rating
cooperatives and farmers' associations; new loans are now restricted to
those with good ratings. The Government intends to strengthen the coopera-
tive system by restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition in an
effort to improve the management and efficient use of institutional lending
facilities. Under the proposed project, BAAC would conduct annually, and
submit to the Bank for its review, a loan portfolio evaluation and plans for
restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Although BAAC receives some deposits from the public and borrows
from external sources, its major sources of funds have been borrowings from
the Bank of Thailand (BOT), through rediscounting or using established credit
lines, and deposits from commercial banks, which totalled $380 million at
the end of March 1979. Borrowings from BOT and deposits from commercial
banks accounted for 60% of BAAC's total liabilities.  Commercial banks'
lending to BAAC and directly to farmers follows guidelines issued by BOT; the
amount lent is approaching BOT's requirement, so BAAC must now explore other
sources of funds to support an increasing volume of lending. In the process
of preparing a long-term resource mobilization plan, BAAC is reviewing the
possibility of raising additional funds from external sources.



- 18 -
56.       BAAC's present spread between its cost of funds and lending rate on
loans to cooperatives and farmers' associations is less than 1%, and its
profit depends almost entirely on loans to individual farmers.  Its net income
was $4.25 million in 1978 and is expected to increase slightly in 1979;
however, maintaining even this marginal profitability is a serious problem due
to the rising cost of funds and operations. BAAC will review alternatives for
improving its financial strength over the long term in conjunction with the
loan portfolio review outlined in para. 54.
57.       Interest rates are regulated by the Government and were recently
raised by 3% across the board, thus requiring BAAC to raise its rates, to
12% to 18% for short- and medium-term small loans to individuals and 12% to
cooperatives and associations. The latter onlend to their members at 15%,
thus obtaining a spread of 3%. These rates would prevail under the proposed
project (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement); the average interest rate
charged by BAAC would be about 14%. Commercial banks now charge a minimum of
15% for both short- and medium-term loans. Inflation rates in Thailand
averaged about 8% in the last three years, but are projected to average about
13% per annum in the early 1980s.
58.       Lending under the project would be the responsibility of the Loans
Department at BAAC's head office, and field operations would be assisted by
branch offices. Identification of a new credit program and appraisal of
prototype projects would be undertaken by the Project Division of the Plan-
ning Department for review by the Bank prior to commitment of funds by BAAC
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project Division is staffed
with qualified officers who have already been trained for identification and
appraisal and given responsibility for a specific commodity in a particular
region.
59.       Other Implementing Agencies.  The Cooperative Promotion Department
(CPD) is responsible for administering cooperatives and the Cooperative
Auditing Department (CAD) for auditing cooperatives. CPD would also be
responsible for training the staff of cooperatives and for restructuring
cooperatives where necessary. The Office of Agricultural Economics within
MOAC would be responsible for a review of the oil palm sector and a study of a
supporting system for lending to small farmers.
60.       Overall coordination would be achieved by the expansion of the
Long-Term Credit Advisory Committee, which was in charge of project prepara-
tion. Under this Committee, the relevant agencies would organize task
forces to coordinate working level activities and to integrate credit with
other support services.
Accounts and Audit
61.       Separate accounts of all financial transactions under the proposed
project would be maintained by CPD, CAD, Office of Agricultural Economics, and
BAAC and audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
These accounts, together with the auditor's comments and opinions, would be



- 19 -
sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year. BAAC
would also send to the Bank its general audit report.  (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Marketing
62.       The annual incremental output of some 68,500 tons of paddy, 400 tons
of fish and shrimp, and 1,500 tons of palm oil would be marketed by the
private sector, which is well developed in Thailand. Current farm-gate prices
for these products are considered satisfactory and offer an adequate incentive
for farmers to invest.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 38% for on-farm de-
velopment, the cost of which is $13.9 million; 32% for shrimp culture, the
cost of which is $2.7 million; and 27% for oil-palm development, the cost of
which is $0.6 million. The average economic rate of return on these
components, which account for 45% of total project costs, is 35%. The
proposed project would benefit about 9,000 families and create incremental
employment opportunities equivalent to about 2,000 man-years through subloans
to farmers (specified and nonspecified lending categories). It would generate
additional production valued at about $11.2 million p.a. at full development,
which would increase exports of paddy and shrimp and reduce imports of palm
oil. Foreign exchange savings at full development would amount to about $17.2
million annually. The technical assistance program would strengthen the
cooperative system, CPD, CAD and BAAC and help to build a base for an expanded
credit program to assist small farmers more effectively in the future.
64.       Project risks vary according to the category of subproject lending,
the quality of subproject appraisal and preparation, and the thoroughness with
which the training and technical assistance components are implemented and
then integrated into daily operational procedures of the staff involved.
Risks common to all subproject lending would include: failure to achieve
projected yields resulting from inherent difficulties in teaching and imple-
menting new agricultural practices, higher than expected development or
production costs, and costs rising faster than agricultural prices. These
risks are not unusual for agricultural projects, and they would be minimized
under the proposed project through the hiring of qualified technical staff.
Several factors could affect the outcome of the technical assistance component
for strengthening the cooperative system. A major risk is that farmers might
not be convinced of the viability of cooperatives which had failed in the past
and, therefore, the merits of becoming members under the new cooperative
system. Considering the conservative attitudes in rural areas and the
pervasive distrust of cooperatives among many farmers, initial success in
restructuring cooperatives in poor financial condition would be essential to
encourage participation. Another risk is that progress in restructuring
cooperatives on a large scale may take longer than expected because of the
complex problems in management and business operations that must be solved.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
THAUAND - SOC7I  DDICATOES DATA inn                  Page  1  of  5
TnknAND                  li     CO  GROUPS (UST=D A GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND 5Q.  t.)                                               - NDST REC   T      )
Tam             514.0                                                  SAL         Sam     NEmT UGECR
AGICULTUIAL      179.6                               NOST RECENT     GSOGRAPHIC   INCOME      ITCOME
1960 Lk    1970 A  ESTD5AE         REGKOK /c  CGDOUP Id   GODU 
GE? PER CAPITA (USS)                100.0       210.0    490.0            528.9      467.5      1097.7
ENERG CO1.4.094PTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRMS OF COAL EZQVALUIT)       64.0       247.0    308.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TUR (MLIONS)    26.4           35.7      43.3
UBAN POPULATION (PCENT 0 TOTAL) 12.0          13.0      14.0            27.4       24.6       49.0
POPULATION PtDHJTIOUS
POPULATION I YM  2000 (MIIONS)                         69.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLI0NS)                      105.0
YER STATIOHAY POPULAYIOK IS R3EACHE                  2095
POPULATION DUSITY
PERL SQ. fl.                     51.0        69.0      54.0           154.6      45.3        44.6
PU SQ. KI. AGRICULTURL LAMD   204.0         251.0    244.0           566.7       149.0      140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PECENT)
0-14 1RS.                        44.7        46.2      45.0           41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 TRS.                        52.6        50.8      52.0           54.9       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AID ABOVE                  2.7         3.0       3.0            3.3        2.6         3.5
POPULATION GROWl RATE (PERCN)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.0       2.8             2.4       2.7         2.4
UAN                               5.1         3.6       3.5            4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE 81T1  RATE (PE THDUSAND)    46.0         42.0      32.0            30.2      39.4        31.1
CRUDE DOATI RATE (PU THDUSAD)      17.0        12.0       8.0            8.3       11.7         9.2
GilOSS IIEPRODUCTION RAT             ..         3.2       2.2            2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY FLAINING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       203.0hj  527.0
USERS (PRCENT OP KILD  W )    ..             27.4      32.3           34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF IOOD PRODUCTION
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)          68.0       100.0    110.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PEt CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (PECENT Of
REQUIREMENTS)                  96.0       103.0    107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         43.5        52.2      50.0           57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       8.4          ..      14.6            16.9      17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    15.0         9.0       6.0             4.8      11.4         8.6
EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEAS)    51.0        57.0      61.0           61.1       54.7        60.2
INFANT KORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        86.Lj    68.0           46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PPaCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      22.0           21.9       34.4        60.8
URSAN                              ..          ..      49.0           46.2       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      12.0           12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO E7CRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        17.0      40.0           28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..        65.0      58.0           65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..         8.0      36.0           14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         7800.0      8420.0   8370.0          3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4900.0      3340.0    1510.0         1107.4     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1340.O/      890.0    800.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
USAN                              ..       280.0    240.0           203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              ..      1380.0   1290.0          1110.3     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        31.0      33.0            23.9      27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.5/f       5.8       5.5            5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                             5.32LL      5.9       5.5             ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                             5.6/f       5.8       5.5             ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMER OF PERSONS PR ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..       2.4             ..         ..         1.9
lRBAN                              ..           ..      2.2             ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..         ..        2.4             ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
rOTAL                              ..                  24.6 .6                   28.1        50.0
IRBAN                              ..        63. 0       . .            .        45.1        71.7
RURAL                               .        13.0                                  .9        17.3



- 22 -                                           ANNEX I
TbILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                  Page  2  of  5
TnAnAND                    U ZFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYpAGES
- MOST RLCENT ESTIMATE)
SAIIE       SAME      NES HIGHER
tlST RECENT       OGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATSE Lb       RGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
AMUJzoD ENtOLLYS RATIOS
PIhAI:       TOTAL                  83.0         81.0      83.0             97.9        82.7        102.5
MALE                  88.0         85.0       86.0             98.7       87.3        108.6
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      79.0             97.4        75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         18.0     '26.0             42.2        21.4         33.5
MAU                   15.0         21.0      29.0             46.7        33.0         38.4
FDIAIZ                 9.0         15.0      22.0             40.9        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SEC0NDAIY)    19.0           24.0       13.0             12.5        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAIR                             36.0         35.0      30.0             32.5        34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                           20.0         16.0      21.0             25.8        23.4         22.9
AWLT LITErACS RATE (PERCENT)          68.0         79.0      82.0             84.1        54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSUND
POPULATION                           2.0          5.0       6.4              6.1         9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS P   THUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        78.0      131.0             84.4        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVRS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                           2.3          7.0      17.0             22.4        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
nITERESr) CIRJLATIOE PER
TIOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         24.0        ..             24.2        18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANUAL ATENDANCE       CPITA   ..              ..        1.7              3.6        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAB4  FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0        16163.0  1514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    48.3        47.3       46.9             36.7        29.2         25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7         79.9      77.0             54.6        62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.4         6.0         8.0            16.3        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
.OTAL                                 51.3        46.6       45.6             40.7        37.1         33.5
EALE                                  52.7         49.3      48.6             49.9        48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                49.8         43.9      42.6             31.0        20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATLO                1.0          1.1        1.1              1.1        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/b         23.8/i    14.01            14.9        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF UOUSEmOLDS  50.97w         49.77T    42.211           46.8        48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCEN  OF HOUSEbOLDS    6.27i;         6.17r     7.6/1            6.2         6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97i        is5.97     i9.iZ1           16.8        16.3         12.6
POVERRT  TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                 ..          ..      126.0            193.1       241.3       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       94.0            128.7       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      115.0            136.8       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      108.0             96.8       103.7       248.9
rST.MATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       15.0             32.0        24.8        20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..       34.0             52.5        37.5        35.3
Not available
Iot applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of daeta and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower middle Income (S281-550 per capita 1976);   /a  Intermediate Middle
Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   if  1962;   /g  Percent of populatio  in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /t  1968;   Li  Preliminary data for 1975/76, dum  to lack of data on national
basis, the methodoloy f'or aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income
groups and understates income of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analytical -omparisons;   /k  Government-   /1  1964-1965.
'lost Recent Eatimate of GNP per capita la for 1978.
August, 1979



-23 -                                                                        ANNE  I
DWMEnsO suIAL ScnTORs                                                                          Page 3 of 5
Notes   dith-ugh the data  r   rm   fro- ore  generaly judged the nest sthorit.tive sad rlae,It ehosd 4     he acted that they  ey not he iatemus
Ittsml   _omarble beceas  of the lack of etandadised definition  and concpts used by dtiffer-at coatie   Inclletiog the data. The data  r,satees
useful to descibe orders of weeitude, Iind-te treds, end ehracirie  cetain   jor differece  beieet                     cunris
The.dutdgopaeae  for eah icdicator arepoltion-eighied geometric   esa, enoldlag the entr_  value  of the indiotor and the moat populated
coutryin  achgrop.   ieto lank of data, g-paverges of all indicators foe Capital Surplus Oil coeteaad of indiostore of Aoo.sa to Water end Uorta
Dsoa,Houing, Th-n  Distri,bution  sod Poverty for other country group  ae ppipltion-weighted geanetirC mess nithout exolosion of tbh, eotrrm  value  sad
the nest populated  o try.  Sia-  the v-er-  of coutries e h  indicators depend  oa avilability of dat  sad Is not uniform  osution   it be eseroised
is relting Lae-ge of on  idio-t-r to sathsr   Thes.o..                saenal  ueu   sa,rs.aitao   s                       e'vle  sh.e. copaing the  sle  ofon
7Ap ARE_ (fthosad eq.hm..)                                                                  drnst         reaDsoa   pecet of population) -'totl  ur-ban, ad rura  -
Ti.  sufc_rarernZ adae   a   edn    aes                                             lne   fpol   ttl   ure, sa- ua)sred                   b  eotadipe..  s
Agricultural_ltstreetesteato  of eg"ot               _ itra  Areat se  temprarily           perce.t.gee of their reepoti-e populations.  oomy            epos.Iasp inclde
or prea-ttly for crps,  at-na  macbe  and kitchen gardens orh                             the colIe,tion and disposal, nith or  ithout treats              h-ns  soreta
ILe fallow.                                                                               and wate-wter hi' eater-born  syste    or tin d   of pin   loins sadeoiln
GRP PEP CAPITA (US94) - tip prr capit  -stintr- at curret   rket price                      Po *        pl        ,1   -  "eua-tion dioded hby cober of practicing physician
cs1icultedibysmeoo--rsio    eth.od as World Bob Atlas (1976-78 basi);                      qifiidfrmaed          ha sbol at unternty leo-i
1960, 1970, ad 19178 data.                                                                pplto   e un             Peans - Population divided by noiie  of praotiolg male
flplY CONUKIPTIONmPER CAPITA - AooI oonsuption of  -ooerisl eneca                            TNed fesae gradute   -se, pr-tlsI n--e, sad  cooctant cone.'
(i7n linte, pn .los,ctura  gao nod hydo-, oul Arn  ge-                           Pnai                P e    clitbal tedh  total.& urban  sad rural   Pjcultio  (total,  -rn,
therme.l ,lectriity)-00   log,n-  of coil equIvalet pe  v-pita, 1960,                       an_ua)dvddh               srrsetv           uber of hospital be,dn avilable, is
1970, nod 1976 data.                                                                        poblio sod pri-nte generl sad apoilboed bontpta1 and rhabo lltntioo cetro-
Hospitals ar  eutablish-enta per-netly otaf fed by at leact  -o  phynlisi-
POPULATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICi                                                              Octablish-rntsproiding prinoipally custodial care ar  cot in1oded.  uRa1
Total Poplation    d-ea  (mlioo-h  of Jul  1, l(6o, 1970, sad                               hospltal, howeer  include health and medi-Ii -et-r  hot permnetly  laf fed
1977 data,                                                                                hi' pha paci   (but by    medical.. asistant, cuie  midife, etc.) o            oIff-r
Sn,b   Poc,ulti"s (pervent sf total    Patio  of urban to total population;                 is-patient a-adatbin sad proode a limite,d rege of -edloal facilot-e.
difeet deIniin    fubnae ey afo  oce                        1taility of data           Adm-isson   erlsptle  -Tta  nubers of adi-..o. to or dinobhrg- Pros
ams  countries; Iby,1970, so   ftdt.boptl   ild h. t                                                         byteobe   f. beds.
P`odlat ion  rjections
popuatin.I  yar 2C000 - Curret populstioc p-ojetiosa ur  busd 00                      ourCiJtS
1975 total popultion by ag  Mcd  -  end thri  mortality ant fertility                Averge, Sloe of Housohold (pte-nn  per~I h-uneold) - total. urban, and rurl -
rates.  rojeotiocpar-ters for scroality rates coPris  of thre                          A bcu_ebod cons.ists of a group of lodloidulsl ch. uh-r  liciag quaIter  end
beel  asuin  life, -op-t-y at birth io--uog with coutry s                          their unit meals.  A boarder or lodger say cc as  cot ho  -sluco,d In the
pe_cpita         1-1neiel  and foaolife e-pect-y stbilising at                       hcu..ebold for nttiitioal parpo-e.
77.5 year.  The p-rs.ter  for Prtility rate, also h-  thre  level                    Aveag   ume!ojercse  eco2              - oa    rs ad rura  - doer..go oubec
aicunin  decli-e io f-ctility accor,dion to IcOan level nd past                        of Peros  e roo  inalus,sd coral occpIed  --nrcti-oa  d-lling~,
Puly  bseicig p-rf-ora    -e  mob coutry in th- enasigned  -a  of th..se             repectively.  Dccellihge e-cldrno-p--vt otrutur-  and unoccupied purto.
nine oonkisatlon  of corta.litc  nd fectilsty treda for proJection                   A_ss  to   LM ilvrcte (peren   f  nlingn( - tot..d,  -ibsn. .ai  c-rl1   Coo-
P-pooe.-                                                                                -sti-na  dwellings wi'th Letriciilty in ilinig que-t-rnpreo cs
tWins   ar poult-oc - in a ot"ti-ssy ppulatoo  there is no groth                          total, orba, sad rura  dssllinguc-pe-ti-ely.
sinc  the birth  -otc Ineqa   to ol   catb rai,,and al iscth  sge
structure reaioncooeo,nt. ThisinInobiev Id oiafte  friity rates             PIdETIOM
ds-ine  o tie repls--wot  eo of uiti -ct reproduction rate0 when                     Adjuctd EnruLlmet OntIoI
each genraio  of covet1 replacro  At-i~f rostly.  The stationar.y pope-                Prim  ayschool - total, sIr and f-al, -C drone total, male end fe-lr  ool
lotIon  oioe ca   enimted  stebao   of_ the prjced             -aaterltics               set of Inl agct the pronel  leve  noI           rseo       of reopoctic- primay
of the popoint io  on tin yr-r  101', oco the, rateof d1Tio  of fer tility                nohool-age p         - _lsooo;ocalyi- lclde  shild-n  aged (-ll y-nr  but
rotetot replacmet I,-vi                                                                   adJuste,d fcr differet ileogtb  of primay eduon tio;  -cc       taor irwth
tear nationar  popltc on. ic ro-obed - floe pear ohm  stationary population                 uni-ron  eduontoc-n_olln-t asp  _oceo  lt per--t 010c-   __m "opi 
brII h   II rr- ahtd                                                                     ac  be,los or noc  toe,  fflouni shbob age.
pog)jation De-Ity                                                                           ie-oda   schoI - total  mal sod f.nua   - Compot,d tob to. c- sco-or
Pe   i  m.     d-poec pot          ..i..er .qo  bilo-te-  (tot heot-re) of          edctorqir    t  "e"t fourtpe-o  f approod prina.                   ooeo,oc
ttal1 oren                                                                                or-Idegsra   -onini   rtaher training iontrutir                      Ifr ppl
Per .u  kM. watoolto-ir I mo   - Coaputod au abc-  for  1giutua            -sd              uselIf 12 to 17 peac  of Igo; ooreepooOscod               rc--cO Orld
only.-                                                                                    e-olded.
.. pulatio  g  Stnoture   peoti-tild-e  (0-lu pears), sortig-age                          too-tioa enrolmen1    t  pero-t of  -e-oda-N   - too-ti.oal oo-oitoti-.000 uo
) 615-    yan,ed retire     h       , pon ou0  -r) no percetgen of sid-peac               t-oheloa,  idsen,o   ther progr-  oich  pop-rt, ndopd,p,ctIy or no
Ppoplation; 19,0, 197t, tod 197.7 data.                                                     departneto  of  -eod-ry ioutitutioos.
ly-Iaticn troth Rntr (corovot) -  .tota  - A.ocul r-eth rates of total mid-                 Pupiltacrrab           -pr m       nod oroocnry   Total  toud-oto c-rold io
year ppaioofor 19501-0, l'76i  i, sod 1970-77.                                              pia-yed -rocar id el  doed by  uerofOaersotcor-
Rainto th Ote   Eret  - rban -   uAl.-  growth rates of urban                     epoding 1-cel.
populaion for 195t-6O  170-70, cod 1971-70.                                              Adci lit-Er_o-rte (peroto) -Lit_cte, adlto (able to ron   oooitln
Crude Oirth RIate -corthousand) - do-ali-o birtco per thousand of sod-                       a ps--etng  of total adult p.polti-c aged Ii pyar  sdod-0cc
ye_  population; 176.1970, stod 1977ota
C-rde_         rth     ibt,  sthnod)  - bovoa1 doaths per th-sud of mid-yea            CdNltl4PCiO
po1ultion; 1960, 1070, and 1970 otte.                                                 Pan-nee  Cur  (p-o th-coood copoutatooo   - Pn-osgor car  comprs   noteor
brosoSeprouctio  Rat    A- deao unhe  of d-oghter  a   -o   will Ira                 oatlitg lIo  then eight Persons~; -oclodc  unbclto-, bearue  no It          It
in henrml reprodu-ti- p-ciod of oe -op---o   pree-t age-
npevtifi  fertility ent-   -osally fl-e-pn    o-rge- o-ding io i960,                   Radlo bcoeloec  (err thoued  opintiot) -AIll types of' reIsor- fr, -ed-
0971 I_d 1975.                                                                           brod-ato to gro-rl poblic per thouceno  f pop iatioooeccl"uueioinlsoroo
sllylPtlanning -, A..rptor. do `a (thouno-de) - dAtuo  numbe  of                            re-i-cer      I...ntrie- sod -o year  ub- r-gioortio of rouo coot e.n so
acetr   f birth--coto   driM       udr-  -upo-e  of ontion.. Ifwily                 offe~ti  data for -e-et yearn  oy volt be, I epar.ihic sicr0  t cuotrit
planning progra.                                                                          abolisbed li--oicg.
Pamily  lsnnin  - dsen operotl of  sreledeonro)- P-eomige of marid         TV R-eiv-r  (per thoeiend pipulati.o) - TV r-co-er  fcc broed nItogeea
nonen ofchid-beringage17-bo prrsiwho incbi tb-nsrc  devi-r                  public Per thousad pouainecudenlicenoed TVO rec  crcoootie
toal-rie,d woae  in sam  age grop                                                     and ines -  ohe- rcgitr-ti-n of TV nt s~ In ieff-t.
POol) AND0 eIfRpTTON                                                                           fdil   eea  inet   apapsr, deft ne2d an ri odic-1 publication
7EA' of ood  rooeioopeeCanota (179b-71-ird) - Indeo of per capita           ~       de-ted pr-naily to r rooring general ce T. t in cooid-rd to be "daily"
-nou1 prd-ctioc of nIll food coandities. Prodeotioen -1udes e-d ad                        if ito appear  at leat fou t,    e
fend end in on caIl,odac pes  banis.  fowodotoe   doe   rmRyoods                       Cinea  nsa AA tedso  pe   aita one Yon    M- h oe0  ohs, -sb-r of ts-curi
( .g.ngaro-   issteai or  sugr  which  -c  edible  n   -ota.in nutrient               sodurn   the peo,i'olNs   dcoit  to dnc-ic cInesa  -od -bcioe
(e.g. ooffe  sod tea are  -lo idd).  Aggregat  produl-ion of each o-tfy                  unon
is bmsd os  atioc-l -oerge pr,oducrPrive ee.gteI
Per capita spply of clrv  (Peren  of esuret)-Cmue   rm                               IAHOPWRE
enery equivalet of cr  foo  nppin ....           i s.ontype   apt                    Total ib-o Por-  (tboossods) - Po-noically  -tioe prnoa ....inluding armd
por dsp.   vailableeupplics  uvprlee   omestic.podactis  imports lese   fcre  said uneplopId hot  -o1lding hooeei-e,  toudeoto, eto. lefio-ti-,
-PI ts,  sadole 'ge  In olt-b.  net suppl ies e-o jde aniil feed, seed,                i   vamu   -octrie- no  cot c-p-obie-
qnontitis  used Ie fodprcnlg, sd lose Zis disaribu,tion. newire-                     se-nao(peypent( - Fe.-s labor force as peroetag, of total laho  forco.
nests vee  etiate,d by PAf basd cophp'Innic.l neds f- or              -Iee.          I,,iilh j           Iret( - labor foror io faralg, for-oory, hunting sd
acIviy dhr-lth  --oid-r Ic  co o netl epraue  body weights,                            isiga  p             ,etg  of total 1sb- foree.
ag   n   e   intrihnti-n     I popis 0.0nd alloing it peret for-dee  (ser--t) - lbor frm -                            miing  oone tuoo,  -ofaotueig acd
aste at house~hold le-1.                                                               eletriolity, waerad  ge npretage of total isbor foroe.
Pre capit suply  y  rneo(moprda)-roencnetppr                                               toitoahe  pecet) - totalmle_                 a  feaePartIipotios o
eait  st suppl   ffo   e  dsp  ISe. t supyo   odi   eir                                 cIvty ratelar  ocpteda                     nl,s   f.. Ic  ,laorf oro   n pee
abov.-  heqireet  fir all coutries, etablishdb                 proide for-             rsisees cf total, male und  fmlpouainof all'. agoesprtlo_y
sioimaalna_           nh  9eams ofItsosi  rteis Per dp ned 20 era-  of                 1761,1970, sad 1975 dats.  Thes  ar  Ilolo pctic,ipetion   eae  re:fiectog
annul  nd pus      ,rtin,of wih I1 gram   ehold he  -aim. pstein.                      age-se  strutur  of vie population, sad long tine treod.  AtPosetimiten
These  ssdards are  oc        _tha  tos 'of 75 I-sm  of tota  pruisi  mad              are Peo  eaticoal s ee
Ptea   fsm.l prti  s   covrg  for the  -led, peop.eed by PAP                   tosoin lsnDsnncY Patio  -  Ratio of popolsto   under 15 and 65 and c-e  to
In the Third World Food lurney                                                         the labor force is age group of 15 -64 year.
Per~ caita Protein soonly fro  anima and pulse - Protein supply of m.d
deeiod-id frc  animals and pusen In gram   per dsp.                                  inl        islWfIl
C1d(A es1-4)_ tr1~.iati   ate (Cr- thousmd ( - A-Isse deaths pee thou- d                 somaF       f  rvte Incom  (both in  aah and kiod) - Pem odby rnchest
Ieoaet    oipIhyas  to child,en is this  gs, gras; fo   et-ee-5pren,roeip   ecn , poret 20 percet, sod= por                                                    4t0 perneat
opiag cuiisdt   eie   rmlf  table.                                                        of hceishnlds.
Lif~~~~ ~ ~~                 Overage tuBoerAof Yea orsu  life                   cs-tbm d Aheolote 9ve-cInc.1ome lere    -7   e   sit) - urban and rurl
Ieminingthie~th;l1950, 197, sad 1977  data                                                Absolute povety iom   ee   n tha Ieus   re   eo   hc                      iia
infat Ioitua  Rats (per thnoused)  A- nea  denthe cf iafajts under- e                      ntiinlyaeut  diet plus eaetanu-foodeeqir-ete  in sct
yca  of age pee theuesd lIne birthe.                                                     affordable.
Acces to Safe   ae (pecet of pplain       ctluban  en  rura  -                              timated he,lanie Povety OcI nLee  (to  per ca ita) - urban mid rurl1
S.inke  of Pepe(oa,. uban   adralwtht _eaasle annes  in                                   linea  relativ  povetyicm   led i              -hir,d of acrege Per capita
auf  eater supply linoloes treted surface eaer   orutratd het                   -         Persona  isce of the ocntry. UIrha  1ece  is derived fro  the rura  leve
u.troasalstd cater  -h no tnt   -Pra        -rtected he-helsa, apring,                    nith adjutmet for higher cot tof living in urban areas
and sanitary wells) an Per-etag    of their  -epeetir   Iaaain .  unEtimated Popuation bloc AbanIatPovety ibc leve
anuban are  aIpublc foutais up eteades  inated mt me    b                                url-Prra   fps,ton(ra  adrrl  ebo..h  are  abolte poor
500_mtee  fro  a hous  as  hr o-nide..d -  beig suMs  eamfamble
Icoes  of that lose-     I  rura  arss re--..slb   a        ..Id Impip
that the hu-eelf  or   cr   o  the   -hoshld  -ont has ta                                                                        E a  onoml  and Social Data Division
diaprp-rtiomte part of the day bt fetohin  tan f-ily'a  dtme mmd_ionol  Anaysia sa-rjcin    eatment
Auut 1979



-24-                                                                         NE 
Pace 4 of 5
196         597  Atal974            l97?         197  al       1979         198          96 L       94-7         Snrn -r1U                .,
(MI II l,.o 2 at 19)5 prItma)
I .r-a  do-oatc product               04,03.8   10, 323.0   t5. 712.4   16,98S5.    18,536.9    19,395.2   20,492.9   29,259.7                7.7           7.3         7.5           7.8        596.4
2    Ato  to.tr,o   rd                  4.            28      -507?.7      -973.1      5,104.9       1,236.4   -1.473.0   -1.962.8                                                                -5.2
1.  Crc.. dosottlt Inc-a  ~~~~~-4,9.5    0,45.       i"29 15245   5,707.4     17,530.5    I3. 154.3   19,219.9   27,295.9             7.2           7.5         7.0           7.0         94.9
4.  2.ona149. 9    2,949.0    3.499. 5    4,440.0                                         4,3894.      0,S062.8    5, 440.4    7,307.8            .            .           4.7           .4           5.
I.   sports-, Mu..           -~~~~~~~1,:591.    -22748 -,0.        ,0.5        -,5.          00 4         5,51 2. 1   -4.044.)         9.           .1'          0.0          3.7          24.2
r.  Caporta-adlouted  for TOT  -1.~540.9   -2175    -,8.          5530        -4,08.9    -3:.039. 0   -.4,039. 1   .4.08 . 5          71            43.0.3                                21.1
7.Pe-ouc   gap - udjated
tnTT                             110.0       475.9        398.4       952.1        07. 9    -1.243.0   -5,405.3   -5.49.5 3~
C.  Total  oo.u.ptloo        5,3~~~~~~02.3    0.0557  1,1,799.5   12:370.)    13,062.4    54,253.4   15,090.4   20,712.2              7.3          17.2         4.             .5         7.
.   I ......et                          1082         ,030.4      9303.      4.249 2       4,855.3      5,187.2      5,530.01    8,092.0          4.5         50.2          7.4          7.5          24.8
IT. Noto -u saIn                      1,574.4    2,500.8    1,4 77 .7    3.361 25       3 ".90  I    3.901.5    4.015.1    4,152.8             4.4          0.5          7.           9.4          22.5
II   Ount   aolj  adjsted
for TOT                          1.497.2    2,338.7    3.495.5    31,317.5         3,947.4      3,941.4    4,529.5    4,5727              4. .7                     8.9          9.           23.2
--II?a  crot 0S0                 4,032.9    4, 543.3   14,204.3   58,154.9        25,301.3    25,214.1   29,5S"0.9   59,774.              13.          17.         555           53.4
(Shn.  of G2P
I.  Arctce0.391                                       0.146       0.301       0.281         0.271        0.264        5.253       5.2
2.  Industry                  ~~~~~~      ~~          ~~~~0.0  022  0.249  0.296    0299       0.304       0.8         0.3
5.  Serotca.                  ~~~~~~       ~~~~~0.401  0427  0.430  0.431        0.430         0432        0432        0437
C.Prlca  15975 - LOO1
I.  tPurt rica, lad4                   44.45       48.0         9.5          935           455         1.5        52.4          71.40         5.            2.7         7.2            .
2.  Import Floe  Iadoo       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~47.74  47.55  105.75  154.12  523.05  547.04  549.81  224.72S  W    7.5        6.            .           5.
3.  Tar., ofroado toWe              97-2        15.3         0.4?        78.30         73.30        75.41       714          75.40        -18             .          5.5           L
CDPlI  deflonun  100$1                  39.22       5.3 39     105.44      1Os.12        55407        130.00      543.90D      204.52         5.2          4.3          7.3           4.0
5     -.-o.a B.arg  escl.Ruo   rtet  20.34      20.30       2.0   2.40                20.39
0. S.Lacted ladl..t.ra                                  19G5-77    597779l    19794           1965-94
I.  ICSM                                               3.54        3.32         3.30         3.97
2.  leeneatct1.9                                                   03          0.85          0.9"7
1.  Avorama tiatlunul   viaa  rat.             0.24        0.25        0.21          0.2
4.   4rl.1 ,toa    ossrn                          .18        0.12        0.23          02
5.  leetaO                                             0.27.0.24                0.24         0.2
4.Inenat,/O;P                                        0.2?        0.24        0.27          0.28
7.  Raeuta gop/CDP                                     004         0.0         0.0           0.03
....ha-a*M   A....,.                       fEEIoOJL                                 0..-          t.   t
F. 0ateet. Labor Force ad Predettlvlto  1. 1975                    nojMillie,         S                       Sills         ..                         EL         1a.au
A.   g iculra                                                   4.559        35.3                      55.         757                              340        4.5.
2.  loda1r 4442                                                                50.            54                        79350                                   547
5.  Servica                                                       5.9           932.9                                5.'.4                          5.9)70      2535.4
TotuII.v.....                                           14.539        190.                       57.7       190.0                            620        590.0
F. P.41t Sc Pac   II of GDP)1 (Cantra  Geversast            1945        1970        5974          5975        sq76        597o a       973
.C rreo  reeue1.3                                                1.3         5.5           5.          55.4        54.0         54.4
2.Ta.  oe                                             2.3        52.         53.5          52.0        52.5        52.          55.
1.  C.ratanad tr.10.3                                              12.4         107          5.I3.                    28          5.
4.  ledgatur?   vlee                   2.9         5.~ ~ ~~~~               ~~~~       ~~~~~2 3.  1.5  0.4  5.2   5.
5 Totul publi.Ic  -otet                               4.5         7.7          3.3          4. 9        5.3          5.6         5.3
C. Foa  Imot   Cret  1   tloe                                5.0       112.0       423.         71.7         633.7       923.0     5 ,1514.0
(    L oftnl  mot.Sd  WS)                           3.3         8.0        184          200          2.1         59.7        59.1
7b  An curct  askot pro-..



-25-                                                           ANNEXI
Page 5 of 5
SALAI OF   HtILS. EITUR    tS 5CK.    y t t  C1IITh133S
3Ceune.n 368t .1113.el
4.3.1                                                Pu.3ctad
1973     1974     397       3970     1977       mej,    1979        ISStO      19os      It"
iusaro of hi lnt, of Peyata
fnport,  IncladInS 7373)                            2.006 .71 021.4  2.J79.5  3.490.4  *,029.3   4.430.?   6.300.0   7,.60.0  12 135.0  24 .97.7
xpe~orte  Incloding97Sf                            2.2)8.3 3.3.2  3,467. 3  3,911.9  1,0913.81  5,919. 2   8.140.0   9,460.0  13.1 5  24.,5n0.4
e.our  te bnte                                      -17I.S   -327.6  -4,09.8   -423.3 -1.054.5   -809.2    -1.840.0   1.000.0  _-1Od5.5        117.2
y   t Ic  r .ar rcC IntaCt-20.6                  -0.7       5.4   -41 .     -72.5   -354.0    -210.0    -300.0   -.25.-  -3.412.S
7.0      3       _.0   41.1    26.1    S-4.0  49.4    -100.0   -210.0    -34.9  -1.170.7
I!p_tli;'l on ubllc H3 & i.T Ibe.     -25.1    -20.1    -34.5    -44.3    44.5    -t0o.8    -111.1   7-1 4.         -4 7.1      2.0
Dtr  r Inonetearr  ntor_r                   -28.0   -37.01    44.0       44.      46O.S     -72.8     -75.5      40O.0    -392.5    -296.0
,1on4.,re rttencne rnet)                              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       22.9      24.5       34.4      4P.2
uorr nt ~rrn f ren    31                             145.5    ;40.0      d0.1     22."      59.3      40.4       00.0      8.0       100.0     110.0
W .1 n   n cor1.nteccn.t                              -481.9    -87.5   -S05.3   440.0 -1.097.6  -1.103.4  -3 .9-0.0              -I.028.I  -389.1
'riltat  Itt e  t{nvsrnet.                             47.0'   135.4    80.5       79.1    104.1       50.0       00.0      75.(     274.2      487.0
rent, 4 otont-i1lk  fIn,..                             0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0o      0.0        0.4       0.0        0.8       n.o
Pubi I I 11 i T I,ena
blebnr,e.ante                                        49.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.4    713.5        We:O.O   1.0l.8    IS.960.4   2.497.!
t3ortlO                                             -26.9    -32.1    -31.7    -45.4    -7.d        -90.7    -0 4.1    -222.1    420.1  -_.T09.7
Y t dlebn-rnnte                                       59.2     41.5    130.;   I3O.I    274.6    S41.8    715.S          786.7   1.540.3   1.04.9
Othar 9 4 LT Ipn.,,
0laboteenIT-n"   17  326.2    299:.    279.7    1113.                                               501.3     900.0   1 0.0   1 .391.0        42.2
ACortleatlon                                       -225.3   -397.2  -221.1   -245.9  -204.2    447.2    -520.0    -SOO0.0 -2050.  -1 107.0
yet dlnhne.e.eatna                                  44.2    329.2       44.5     23.d      47.4      34.3      56.0      550.0     542.4   -703.2
i.e nI IYr  .enntnees                                   0.0       0.0      0.0     77.3       3.6     183.4      2806.0    200.0    -40.0         0.0
Short-tnt. cplt.1  rreaeennln.e                        42.0       .9    3 127.3   llS.2    254.2       34.0      120.0     250.0     3O.3       252.4
C.7lteI  :vsnanatlo. IICI                              57.9      94.3      77.2    -11.4   133.2    -371.9         0.0       0.0       0.8        0.0
Chatg. In re.Ctv-              -tInret.              -11330   -132.7    340.1   -73.0    275.0        47.9       494.3     174.3   -414.8    -654.S
Nt foreign athnOme enearn..
(end of 7eridf)                                   1504.0  1, 59.0  1,404.0  1,444.0  1.l35.d        459.9     Ib.0        10.0   2.454.5   S3,20.9
(tent en  Loan Co_lnsettCl          
OOOlnlol ocenna                           0.0      ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~    ~ ~~0.0  0.0 0. 00 0.
Tatl p.bIlc M I LT  en                                  7.3    436.5    222.4    572.2    423.0   1 22C.0
3060                                                 33.0    142.0    9S.0       56.0   137.8       250.0
IDA                                                  25.0       7.0      0.5      o.n      0.0       33.1
O=the, e,.Itlltetl                                    4.4      77.2     42.7     92.3      47.0     394.7
Gov.rn. nt-                                          24.0    200.5      47.7     22.2    306.4    312.0
Of Mtobh -ent  ly pl.ne.d   ter  .                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.n0      0.
Soppll.e.                                             0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      O.0        0.0
fi7 .e. la  ntt1t6on1 14.7                                     9.7      I8.0    100.0    343.9      4213.7
Ot,ha  M 6 LT Ie-. (.h.-r. vleblel                    170.9    435.9    592.5    240.2    346.9       531.6
Crenr ele1eot of Intel e it_...... I2S               44.00O   33.400   15.700   11.500   10.200    14.I91
A--r1ea Intennat (2)                                  0044    0.057    0.07       0    0            o.02
A-ere.  ..toty (yar.)                                29.100   23.400   23.000   36.300   14.000    12.632
1.81... - d Lone-;Ter 0.1DOObeea el
Tetel d.41 oeteeandtng (D00 efd 00 0     5tft i)    9005.   1.340.?  1.3450  1.06.8 1 .t31.5   2.5TI0
Innbo1Fdl,n  idlebnrnd                              1,162.4  1.770.0  2,00.2  2.O"  4.0  13345    4 564.I
Pobito debt .trvto-                                   -54.9    .40.4   -7.2    -87.7  -152.3   -202.5
Intene t                                              -25.3    -2.3    -I4.5    -44.3    44.5    -100.7
Other M I LT debt .nivna                             -235.8  -254.8   -l34.5   -245.9  -336.3    -550.d
Tot.l debt ent.lne                                   -330.7   -327.2   -307.7  -335.4  -40.4   -796.7
Debt ]krden 323
Debt  trvtnn rtes                                      14.9      30.8     33.S      9.0    12.2        30.3
Oabt I  otta rZt1o L                                   1S.2     32.0    3S.2    I.5    35.            I 37.4
Debt t.lcn/ODP                                          2.9       2.5      2.7      2.0      2.7        3.4
P4lbn debt _rvlne/G--o.rtt r__                          4.3       2.5      1.1      3.7     4.4         4.3
I tnr-t on toal 000/t.t.l d.b-ae.ete                    5.7      5.5       5.4      3.4      5.7        5.6
Toal debt  9-vl -lt-rr_C  t.         t                 12.4      33.6     32.9     30.      32.0       39.4
Te.e.dnn E    -te I4 .      t 0243 31)
Cro_ dT.bte-_e /11_rte (l_lrt l 1 M)                   11.0      12.0     12.9     13.3      10.9      21.0
Oat t Te-- fe/rt:t; (ltael.3 I.   0                    -2.4       2.6      1.8      480       2.0      30.2
II*t tt9.e(0n . IboS.r=          "o                   -25.5      22.5     15.0     500       I8.4      46.7
Xonnvr. (S)
T80D dtebue.-nt/grnee natal dt          _ts            14.t      0.0       9.3      8.5     12.0        9.3
.Sak Crnup d14b r_tn/grn.  natl d3.ee                  14.8       6.3      9.7      9.5      15.0      9.
2000D DOD/tt.l 003                                     24.2     20.0      20.0    l1.0      17.9       20.2
Seek Grnp DOD/0ttal o2o                               24.2     20.9      20.4     19.2      18.0      21.2
157 debt nntvtn./- otel debt &  eA' e                   6.0      8.3       8.3     34.a      9.8        7.6
Ocali Cr359 debt nerolne/tntel   0.etna                 0.0       .3       .2.3    10.9      9.0        7.0
fEtertnal Debt Iltebareed onlal                      OnneoMlde  12/31176
fCattnalt 1.00 *lllleea                               _t
1060                                                  454.8     24.5
r.nk Grew                                             455        25.d
Other   Itil ...1                                     257.5      34.5
Gnv.rn.aet'                                           "49.2      30.9
Of .At h cntrely pi ..nd aeI           c              0.0       0.0
Soppliera                                               9.0       0.5
FInenolel fI In-CItut lon-                            502.1      20.2
lend.                                                        0.0 .0
!         Itel n.4l cN I LT debt                    1777. 1    100.0
Other 0  L  diT                                       913.9      3.4
'03.1t4l        .d 4bt  Atnlodtao .dlnbwe     l    560.4    207.1
7o- 1 73  LT d.40 Idaeledtt.  .    -4,595.3    250.3
b  Nt  f-ot  gn  eate1   .qi..lnn.   ed L3e. 31.                .                 _.
-  In lAd.. 3tOA o.rttA   n r P..PLe  k le ec Cia., llbn4 ite.. 7bnk 9.t
J'-IlodIng nat dlt-  t1-veetee      earc.



- 26 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND. /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                                 Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrowers                         Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                   388.9      5.5     -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      15.4        -     3.8
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.0        -     1.3
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways       28.6        -     -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education         -    19.5      3.0
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation        -      7.0     1.0
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.0        -    11.1
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.7        -     0.2
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water             55.0       -      2.1
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.0        -    69.3
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.0(TW)   -       9.1
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.0(TW)   -      3.1
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.0        -    32.1
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.0        -     4.5
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.0       -    21.6
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.0        -     7.6
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.0         -    21.5
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.0        -    38.8
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.0        -    28.2
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.8        -     3.5
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population        -    33.1/b  33.0
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.0        -    72.4
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.0        -    23.6
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.6       -      7.7
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.9         -      .2
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.0       -    90.0
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.5        -    17.2
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.0       -    14.1
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.7       -    16.7
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power /c       80.0        -    80.0



- 27-                                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year        Borrowers                      Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.0    35.0
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -      5.0    25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand              Ag. Extension        40.0        -    40.0
Total                                                         1,411.1   125.1   716.7
of which has been repaid                                      210.6
Total now outstanding                                         1,200.5   125.1
Amount sold Id                        68.6
of which has been repaid            42.7                       25.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,174.6   125.1
Total undisbursed                                               619.7    97.0
la This summary includes statement of Bank loans signed as of December 31, 1979.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/d Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30       -       0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                   -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials               28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials          36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            73.98    9.51      83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          48.82    2.56      51.38
Net held by the Corporation                        25.16    6.95      32.11
Total undisbursed                                  36.03    0.25      36.28



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of December 31, 1979)
Loan No. 8Z_ Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflect ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of
26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment and the remainder have been
recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research
and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented
by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                    Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Of 146 fellowships 137 have been
awarded, and 119 completed. Staff training programs are on schedule but need
to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its non-
formal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Within three months of effectiveness, good progress in project
implementation has already been made: (i) the Central Procurement Unit has
been established; (ii) sites for all first phase institutions have been
acquired, and expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans
and lists for most furniture and equipment have been prepared; (iv)
consultants for the Center for Educational Technology have been selected; and
(v) potential technical assistance contractors have been identified.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of December 31, 1980, $1.3 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.5 (83%) had been disbursed as of December 31, 1979. Local telephone
network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's delay in
procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance
transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is now
expected to be fully disbursed by September 1981, having been completed by the
end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                    Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4. 1978; Effective Date: January 3. 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to review of management decision on standardizatiloa of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about 9-12
months. Bid documents for these items have now been issued. Waiting lists
have been introduced in all telephone areas and procedures for giving new
connections revised. Progress on implementation of other project components
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) ProJect: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30. 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979 and progress
on project implementaton is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved considerably.
The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5
million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an
area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the
adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component has been
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several
disciplinary groups.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4. 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work is expected to begin in January 1980.
Procurement of vehicles and equipment is delayed due to difficulties
in reconciling the drainage used in existing bidding documents with
recently introduced government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing will and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate. A feasibility study for about
175,000 ha in the Stage II area of Maeklong started in May 1979 and is due to
be completed in February 1980. A project monitoring system is being set up
and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National Agricultural
Extension Project.



33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25. 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Furthermore the number of permanent project staff has been nearly doubled
from the initially approved 121, and the New Zealand Government has agreed to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Staffing is almost complete in 18 of the possible 25 provinces.
All efforts are being made to appoint staff in provinces incorporated under



- 34-                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
the project in 1979. The quality of training, particularly that for subject
matter specialists, can be further improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings
in the quality of leadership and technical support are being made in the
weaker provinces. Excellent extension results have already been achieved, in
particular through the extensive use of small pumps for dry-season cropping by
small farmer groups, in rubber quality improvement and in improvements in home
gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind schedule because
of high inflation and, until recently, the low unit cost of ceilings for civil
works set by the Budget Bureau. It is expected that contracts for all remain-
ing civil works will be awarded in Thai FY1980. Procurement of vehicles,
equipment and materials is on schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the
delays in the civil works program. Consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18. 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date:  December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9. 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was
an initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents
but procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.
Field construction crews have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1021  Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. The Government
approved MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were recently approved by Cabinet; parliamentary opposition
has put these tariff increases in abeyance.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Prolect; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to minimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost
recovery in improved slums is expected to be introduced as physical works
are completed - starting in early 1980.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25. 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment has been installed, some two years earlier than expected, as
a result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492 The MIinburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: Miarch 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road construc-
tion, sewerage, and water distribution. Land sales have been very
encouraging with nearly all of available plots either firmly committed or
being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have
been achieved at an average sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to
projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to
accommodate substantial demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has
enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full development is still expected
by mid-1980.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: lIarch 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much
improved. The IFCT's capital structure and liquidity position have
improved, however, with successful share capital increases. Satisfactory
progress has been made on the institutionbuilding aspects of the project.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
In accordance with the Credit Agreement the Government has
(a) established and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has
met frequently; (b) established and staffed the Project Administration and
Financing Unit (PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and
two assistant project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d)
initiated most of the key project activities at the national level and in
the 20 Accelerated Family Planning and Health Provinces.
Due to initial delays in staffing the project administration and
financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the Construction and Design
Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau approval for the
supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities were held up
initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.
Credit No. 929  Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1690 Bank Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Original Effective Date: November 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Power tariff increases have been announced in February 1980.
Further adjustments are necessary to meet covenanted rate of returns. The
effective date has been postponed awaiting formulation of plans to restore
EGAT to sound financial viability.



- 38 -                         ANNEX III
Page I of 2
THAILAND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency that prepared the project:   BAAC with the collaboration of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                 Identification in May/June
1977
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal
Mission:                              February 1979
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:           January 21, 1980
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        June 30, 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
Soon after loan approval by the Board, a supervision mission would
be sent to assist the Government in preparing documents required for improving
and expanding training facilities, employment of consultants for the training
program, and procurement of audiovisual aids and other training materials.
The mission would also assist BAAC in reviewing the viability of new lending
categories already identified by its Planning Department.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed:
(a)  to cause BAAC to submit proposals for new lending categories for
the Bank's review and agreement (para. 40);
(b)  that BAAC will use its best efforts to extend not less than 50% of
subloan funds to small farmers (para. 41);
(c)  to procedures for employment of consultants (paras. 43, 44, 46,
47 and 48);
(d)  to terms of reference of the study to review supporting systems
for lending to small farmers (para. 48);



- 39 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) to procurement procedures (para. 50);
(f) to cause BAAC to conduct annually, and submit to tL- Pank for its
review, a loan portfolio evaluation, and plans for restructuring
cooperatives that are in financial difficulty (para. 54);
(g) to subloan terms and conditions (para. 57); and
(h) to auditing arrangements (para. 61).






BURMA                                                                 I }~~~~~~~~~~~~-IAILAND  ROEC
-20-  8URMA 0                        7Sb                    i0                    AGRICUlTURE CREDIT PROJECT
/                                           & > := '; i 4; \ i - 4__J_ 0 \ = ;S sror,hes Bonk for Agricuture rnd Agr,c0ure
5.5i- f                              =A    Heod Office. Batnk for Agriculture ond Agr,c.lnure
,i X   X 4,!   v  t  \0:;  *-(5  1t tS pi:t:  ;:t    ; ;;:  0                      Agro-Ecnomanc Zopse Boundaries
*  1    =gifc   2 tfr 0      its Noon:  L ;  :  ---Chongwat BoundSrdres
-      0  LAX:                    f   P  EO  P   -   E'S 0 0: fnterrhnaotaf 3i Boundaries
~kh 0                                                              0       FNA2h; Sapkhar   Q' OE  -  Ta;
, == X 0 ; ~~~~00     K                          m        n Ph,,  ID        rhTLec  h hbn>  af%00
16         S;h                                                                                            On"o/ > NkhnXa       ,   ; ;    
<                                      N.khon R qh$guri aS  ) or",1= N.... R- 
L =g: .    E . .            Sup in 85riO f                 CaeapSaat 
SEA  =a0X?=                  =KAMPUCHEA3p t}                                                      ;   i      0                             0 00000_
N                A, TWn lf    P   HAIAN
0 0 tatstAqkh h4Rt         ?           ,ak X
ANDAMA/N                    V f            9                  <9:=f;X000==  ti 00 0 f .a  0   a=
SEA                                                                                                   K A  M =P0 :; -5!-5.1, >  1'9 Tat >  0 5  0 g Xt<XA;XM0f- U C H  at A ,,;  a   0 t
-12'                           X  =;t             N  rt. Khn                            C    \    tt    0.'=                                       12-
ry W   t  t    GUIF  OF  FHAHA/LAND                                                 ,'.,
,r0     O            ~                            RtI -  N,0vl    '/'C                                     S; w=rcvew
'kj  Si>! \=                                                                                  LI)
0 ~Av JO                               200                                                              DAX                Sr4N  00
-8            5   to            _;t'l   \                              :                  8                ,          r7  Id: N.
ti   ^<l: So;:\i: itf\                                                (rz THA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND  )   1-j
T- V,l=                                                                                                 t 5t  -8 (EMa NAM
C, as                                                                                                0'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-APvHA
O            10,0          200            300      '                      Nf7/_
m  0              M bS~10,                200        0       t       f                                                        SNAsb.  
,Md                       o oo    .        M  A L A Y S I A | X  $           .                         r N f 7 o N r s I A  ' r-  C
zo                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M A LAY.SI A                                   TNOON E 5 A 



