FILE COPY
RESLRICTED
Report No. PS-3a
This report was propared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
FOR THE CYCLONE DAMAGED
COASTAL AREAS OF EAST PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN
December 30, 1970
Special Projects Department



CUTRRGNY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00          -  Rupees (Rs) 4.762
Rs  1.00          =  US$ 0.21
RS  1 million      -  US$ 210,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(English System)
1 acre (ac)                   -  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)                   =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 suare ti±I' (Sq ri)         =  6h0 ac
= 259 ha
1 foot (ft)                   =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 long ton (lg ton)           =  1.016 metric tons (mi ton)
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)           -  l,234 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per second
(cusec)                   =  0.028 m3/sec
(Local Units)
1 maund (md)                  =  0.0367 lg ton (82.2 lbs)
1 maund                       =  82.2 lbs
1 lakh                        =  100,000
1 c-ore                       =  10 million
INTTIhLS AND ACRONYNS
hkP? 4iP - East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
IlCA    - Inland Water TransDort Authority
DpHiE     Department of Public Health Engineering



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR
CYCLONE DAMAGED COASTAL AREAS OF EAST PAKISTAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................              i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION        .................................
II. BACKGROUND.                                                       2
A. The Project Area...                                         2
Topography            ...                          2
B. Population. .                                               2
C. Climate...                                                  3
III. THE IDA PROJECT. . .                                               3
A.  Project Description. .                                     3
B. Detailed Features                ...                        4
Technical Assistance.                              4
Fresh Water Supplies.                              4
Reconstruction of Coastal
Embankments.                                     5
Rural Infrastructure.                              5
Fisheries.                                         7
Water Transport Equipment and
Terminal Facilities.                             7
Other Programs and Contingencies                   7
C.   Tentative Allocation of the Credit                        8
D.  Procurement and Disbursement.                              9
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                   .                9
IDA Project Preparation, Evaluation
Supervision .10
V. JUSTIFICATION .10
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS .11
ANNEX - 1. Rural Works and Thana Irrigation Programs
MAP    - 1.  The Cyclone-Affected Area






PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR
CYCLONE DAMAGED COASTAL AREAS OF EAST PAKISTAN
SUMM*ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Following the cyclone of November 12-13, 1970, Pakistan is faced
with the difficult and urgent task of the reconstruction of the cyclone
affected coastal belt. Soon after the tragedy, the World Bank Group took
the lead in proposing IDA assistance in reconstruction, and the Government
has requested an IDA commitment as soon as possible to help finance a part
of the overall Reconstruction Program. The Program was prepared by East
Pakistan Government agencies with the assistance of several Bank missions
which were in the field in mid-November (see Program Report - SEC M70-542
dated December 7, 1970).
ii.       The project proposed for IDA financing of US$25 million equivalent
includes selected high priority items of the Government Reconstruction Prog-
ram which must come forward immediately and are suitable for IDA financing.
The items selected would consist of specific sub-projects in selected cate-
gories of the Reconstruction Program. The project includes technical assist-
ance for the preparation, evaluation and execution of individual sub-projects.
Before any IDA funds are committed, additional information on the specific
cost and justification of each sub-project would be provided for IDA approval.
iii.      The items to be financed under the proposed IDA Credit would fall
into the following major categories:
(a) technical assistance for sub-project preparation, evaluation
and execution;
(b)  fresh water supply facilities;
(c)  reconstruction of coastal embankments;
(d)  reconstruction of rural infrastructure;
(e)  fishing boats, gear and related equipment;
(f)  water transport equipment and terminal facilities;
(g) other reconstruction programs (agricultural supplies, tele-
communications, cyclone warning system, etc.), and contingencies.
iv.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 million would finance all foreign
exchange costs and half of the local currency costs of approved sub-projects
of a total cost of about US$35 million.
v.        The Government has set up a Reconstruction Board, and will appoint,
before the Credit signed, a Reconstruction Program Administrator. The Board,



- ii -
through the Administrator, would be responsible for the overall execution of
all projects in the Program. Each subproject to be financed under the
Credit would be the subject of a Subsidiary Agreement with the Association,
which would precisely define the scope of the subproject works, the depart-
ment or agency responsible for their execution, the disbursement arrange-
ments to be followed, and any other necessary terms and conditions.
vi.       To assist in effective preparation, evaluation and supervision
of the Project and enable proper disbursement of IDA funds, the Reconstruc-
tion Board would appoint consultants acceptable to IDA for subproject works
as required under the proposed Credit. Suitable auditing arrangements
acceptable to IDA were confirmed during negotiations.
vii.      It is not possible to calculate the economic return on each in-
vestment item.  However, experience shows that the types of rehabilitation
and reconstruction works which would be included in the project yield high
economic returns. The proposed project is urgently needed and provides a
suitable basis for a credit of US$25 million on normal IDA terms.



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR
CYCLONE DAMAGED COASTAL AREAS OF EAST PAKISTAN
I. INTRODUCTIQN
1.01      The Government of Pakistan has asked IDA to contribute to the
financing of a reconstruction program for the cyclone-affected coastal
areas of East Pakistan. The project for which IDA financing is proposed
is about a fifth of the Government's Reconstruction Program. The Program
was prepared by Government of East Pakistan agencies working under the
direction of the Governor, with assistance from Bank missions in the
field at the time of the cyclone. The Program has received the unquali-
fied support of the Government of Pakistan.
1.02      Economic development in coastal areas cannot proceed without ex-
tensive rehabilitation and reconstruction work. Soon after the tragedy
the Bank Group offered IDA assistance in reconstructing of the devastated
area. The Governor of East Pakistan then requested that the World Bank
missions in the field assist the Government in preparing of the Program. 1/
The Government has requested an IDA commitment as soon as possible because
of the urgency of the task and to facilitate negotiations with bilateral
aid agencies. An IDA credit of US$25 million equivalent is proposed to
cover categories of the Reconstruction Program which must come forward
immediately and are suitable for IDA financing. The items proposed for IDA
financing would consist of specific sub-projects in selected categories of
the Government's Reconstruction Program.
1.03      For many years, IDA has been involved in preparing and financing
of projects aiming at development of East Pakistan's agriculture and water
resources. Considerable knowledge has been obtained in these and other
fields related to the proposed reconstruction project. Feasibility studies
by consultants on a number of components of the proposed program were pre-
pared following the cyclones of 1961, 1963, and 1965. The proposed project
draws on this work.
1/   The Report titled "A Reconstruction Program for the Cyclone Damaged
Coastal Areas of East Pakistan" was circulated to the Bank's Board
on December 8, 1970 (SEC M70-542, dated December 7, 1970).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Project Area
Topography
2.01      The project area comprises the cyclone-affected coastal areas of
East Pakistan, along the seaface of the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta and the
Chittagong coast to the east of the delta (see Map 1).
2.02      The Chittagong coast, in the eastern part of the project area,
has hill ranges quite close to the sea. The lowland along this coast is,
however, not much above the high tide level. A small part of this area
was affected, some four Thanas 1/ totalling about 600 square miles. To
the west of Chittagong is the delta of the Ganges-Brahmaputra rivers.
There are four major (Bhola, Ramgati, Hatia, Sandwip) and several hundred
smaller islands in this area. The larger islands slope up from sea level
to about ten feet elevation. The smaller islands are usually recent accre-
tions and are less than five feet above sea level. Most of the islands
were subject to heavy damage. The adjacent mainland of Noakhali also
suffered considerable damage. On the other side of the Meghna river, the
"mainland" areas of Patuakhali, Bakerganj and Khulna can be seen as a col-
lection of islands separated by rivers. These islands are lower than the
mainland of Noakhali and seiffered very heavy damage.
2.03      The area of maximum devastation where the project will concen-
trate, covers a path about 20 miles in width that crosses the off-shore
islands of the Bay of Bengal in a northeast direction. It consists of
the group of small islands at the mouth of the Tentulia River; the south
eastern half of Bhola Island; the northern portion of Hatia Island and
southern portion of the Ramgati Polder; and finally, the newly formed
Char lands south of Noakhali to the mouth of the Feni River (Map 1).
B. Population
2.04      The cyclone-affected area had an estimated population of 4.8
million, with an average population density of 1,300 per sq mi (Map 5 of
the Program Report). There is considerable difference. in population dens-
ity between the older islands and mainland (1,000 - 2,000 persons per sq
mi) and newer islands (500 - 1,000 persons per sq mi).  In addition to
this permanent population many seasonal workers had moved from the densely
populated mainland to the islands during the rice harvest when the cyclone
struck.
1/   The Thana is a unit of local administration.  There are 413 Thanas
in the Province, each wlth an average area of 125 sq mi.



-3-
C. Climate
2.05      The coastal areas receive very heavy rainfall during the monsoon,
which lasts from June to October. Rainfall varies from 150 inches at Cox's
Bazaar to 110 inches at Patuakhali.  The wind system shifts at the beginning
(April - May) and at the end (October - November) of the monsoon. It is
at this period that large violent cyclonic storms appear in the Bay of
Bengal; local storms of considerable intensity are quite common during the
monsoons. There is practically no rain from November to April and in this
period much of the surface water becomes saline. Normally the first month
of heavy rains is necessary for leaching out the salt from the top profile
of the soil before rice can be planted.
2.06      Cyclonic storms are an important feature of East Pakistan's cli-
mate and have caused great suffering and damage to people and property in
the cyclone path. The storms usually form in the southwest portion of the
Bay of Bengal, move in a northerly or northwesterly direction and often
turn northeasterly or easterly toward the east coast of the Province. Ap-
proximately 7,000 square miles of the coastal area with a population of
6 million are considered to be cyclone prone. This covers most of the
Districts of Noakhali, Khulna, Barisal, Patuakhali and Chittagong, and
scattered offshore islands which are topographically almost at sea level
and which are naturally subject to severe saline intrusion. Eight severe
cyclones have been recorded in East Pakistan in the past decade.
2.07      The cyclone of November 12, 1970 was unprecedented not only in
terms of the large number of deaths, but the extent of the area damaged.
The most heavily damaged area encompassed a population of around 2 million
in an area of 1,700 square miles. Crops on one million acres of land were
totally destroyed, another million cropped acres were partially damaged.
III. THE IDA PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project proposed for IDA financing consists of specific items
of the Government of Pakistan Reconstruction Program for the cyclone-affected
coastal areas of East Pakistan. It consists of work and equipment for re-
habilitation of facilities for which the need is obvious, as well as of longer
term rehabilitation projects and cyclone protection which require further
study. The project includes technical assistance support for sub-project
preparation, evaluation and execution. The project would be carried out
over the next eighteen months. IDA financing would be provided for sub-
projects falling in the following major categories: (i) technical assist-
ance; (ii) deep wells, shallow wells and tanks for fresh water supply;
(iii) reconstruction of coastal embankments; (iv) rural infrastructure,
i.e., rural roads, minor irrigation and drainage works, rural development
centers, and major road rehabilitation; (v) fishing boats and equipment;
(vi) water transport equipment and landing facilities; (vii) other programs
(agriculture, telecommunications, cyclone warning system, etc.), and con-
tingencies.



-4-
B. Detailed Features
Technical Assistance
3.02      The Government of Pakistan has requested expert assistance under
the IDA project to support the two phases of its reconstruction program:
(a) preparation and evaluation of specific reconstruction schemes including
detailed field assessment of the cyclone-affected area; (b) supervision and
audit of sub-projects. Aerial surveys already underway for the entire proj-
ect area on a scale of 1:50,000 (and 1:10,000 photography for which arrange-
ments have been made) would be used. Field checks and supplementary data
would be collected by regional teams including civil engineers, agricultur-
ists and other experts. With respect to design, evaluation and execution
of sub-projects, the project would provide individual consultants in such
fields as fisheries, engineering, agriculture, cyclone warning meteorology,
transportation and telecommunications. To assist in the overall supervision
and coordination of the Reconstruction Program, an expatriate adviser to the
Reconstruction Program Administrator would be provided. The Board would
also use independent auditors to perform physical and financial audits,
for the sub-projects to be financed under the Credit and related elements of
the Reconstruction Program. Altogether, technical assistance requirements
to be met under the project would be about 150 man/months.
Fresh Water Supplies
3.03      A Bank Group mission was in East Pakistan at the time of the
cyclone appraising a tubevell project. Its attention was diverted to the
preparation of a program for obtaining fresh water for drinking purposes
in the cyclone-affected areas. Increased water supply for drinking and
dry season irrigation is of top priority. Many of the existing shallow
wells, tanks and ponds have been contaminated by sea water, corpses and
waste. With some exceptions, including areas in western Khulna and cen-
tral Noakhali, shallow ground water of adequate quality is available in
the coastal areas and the offshore islands, the general depth of the upper
aquifers being from 50 to 150 feet. Shallow wells proposed to be drilled
and equipped under the project would be of the pattern successfully in-
stalled by the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) and their
consultants, i.e., drilled by indigenous methods, equipped with 1-1/2"
iron pipes, PVC screens, a concrete platform and a hand pump. Experienced
local drillers are available to carry out the work. They would be selected
and supervised by DPHE and expatriate consultants. In addition to tapping
the shallow aquifer, it is also desirable to tap the deeper aquifer in a
limited number of locations where restrictions on unit discharge are small.
The deep tubewells are not expected to pose overpumping problems, if proper-
ly located. For the purposes of protection against further emergencies the
project would also include concrete storage tanks with internal asphalt
covering. Each tank would be equipped with rotary hand pumps.
3.04      Using existing equipment and materials the DPHE has already started
the rehabilitation of damaged wells. However, its stocks will need to be



- 5 -
replenished soon. The project makes provision for such replacement as well
as for field equipment urgently required by DPHE to improve its services in
the project area. Provision is also made for starting immediately some
groundwater surveys and water quality testing to help select the precise
location of well sites. This survey can proceed simultaneously with the
sinking of the first wellJs.  Interest in fresh water supply reconstruction
has been expressed by the UNICEF and Sweden (SIDA). IDA funds under the
project would supplement such assistance, if required.
Reconstruction of Coastal Embankments
3.05      An IDA mission was visiting the coastal embankment area (Map 1)
when the cyclone struck. The purpose of the coastal embankment scheme is
to prevent salt water inundations by normal high tides 1/ through a system
of dikes and drainage sluices. Fifty-five polders involving over 1,900
miles of embankments and 650 sluices have so far been constructed at a
total cost of approximately US$200 million equivalent. The coastal em-
bankment scheme, by far the largest water control project yet undertaken
in East Pakistan, has been significantly damaged by the cyclone. Embank-
ments were breached and overtopped and sluices and related equipment were
destroyed all along the storm track. On the basis of reconnaissance flights
and of estimates prepared by Leedshill de Leuw, consultants to the East
Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA), it has been
estimated that embankment repair and reconstruction, replacement of sluices
and related works will require about US$11 million equivalent (of which
US$1 million would be foreign exchange) and that the work must extend
over two construction seasons. It is expected that the bulk of this program
can be financed from bilateral aid sources, probably USAID. IDA funds would
be used to cover a first phase of this vital reconstruction effort, if re-
quired.
Rural Infrastructure
3.06      The program of reconstruction, particularly in agriculture and
its related infrastructure, will depend for its success on an effective
organization - not only at the Provincial Government level but also in the
villages. Fortunately, East Pakistan has developed a system of rural or-
ganization and cooperatives (Annex 1) that provides an effective instrument
for reconstruction. In particular, the Rural Works Program, already in
operation throughout the coastal areas, would help in reconstruction of
rural facilities damaged by the cyclone.
3.07      A Bank Group mission already involved in these programs in other
parts of the province was able to make a detailed evaluation of the 19
Thanas in the cyclone-affected area. Through this evaluation, it was
1/   The embankments also provide some protection against tidal surges and
cyclones. However, complete protection against cyclones, while phy-
sically possible, would be prohibitively expensive.



- 6 -
determined that the project would repair and reopen some 200 miles of vital
road links and some 600 miles of important feeder roads, and would include
reconstruction of breaches in embankments, re-establishment of grade, repair
of culverts and erection of Bailey bridges with subsequent reconstruction
of the bridges. The physical targets are summarized in the table below.
The presently estimated costs of these works are Rs 17 million (US$34 mil-
lion), of which Rs 2 million (US$0.5 million) is in foreign exchange. The
Roads and Highways Directorate (strengthened by Corps of Engineers officers)
would be entrusted with the work on major roads, while the Rural Works Pro-
gram would handle feeder road reconstruction.
PROPOSED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS
A.   Major Road Links
1.  Bhola-Char Madras Road                                73 miles
2.  Patuakhali-Khepupara Road                             40 miles
3.  Lakshmipur-Ramgati Road                               40 miles
4.  Charbati-Hatia Jahaimara Road                         29 miles
5. Sonapur-Atkapaliar Char-Charmir-
mushirhat Road                                        23 miles
Total                         205 miles
B.   Feeder Roads
District              Roads               Bridges/Culverts
No.   Mileage           No.    / Span (ft).
Patuakhali        11      126               84       1,015
Bakerganj         24      127               75          800
Noakhali          15      221              133        3,215
Chittagong        19       96               51          616
(Sandwip)
Total  69       570             343        5,646
3.08      In addition to the Rural Works Program, private contractors would
be used by the Public Works Department for construction of miltipurpose rural
development centers.  These buildings of solid construction would be elevated
and buttressed to serve as storm shelters in the rural areas and to cut down
deaths and livestock losses. Other possible uses for these multipurpose
centers could be for grain, fertilizer, seed and pesticide storage and dis-
tribution, schools, etc. A few such centers are in operation in isolated
parts of the coastal areas, but this concept of improved protection against
future disasters needs to be expanded to cover the bulk of the cyclone
damage-prone area. The project would provide about 200 multipurpose centers/
shelters, enough to protect 40,000 families of the cyclone affected areas --
a modest start for a program aiming, in the long run, at construction of
2,000 shelters.



-7-
Fisheries
3.09      Resident and visiting fisheries experts made a detailed review
of the program prepared by the Department of Fisheries and the East Pakistan
Fisheries Development Corporation. The reports regarding the extensive
damage suffered by tFe existing fishing industry made it clear that this
would be a most urger.t part of any reconstruction effort. Preliminary
reports indicate that 90% of the 40,000 marine fishermen in East Pakistan
were affected and sustained heavy losses. Of 77,000 inland fishermen
operating in the cyclone affected region about 46,000 appear to have
lost their lives and damage was severe to the survivors. The project
includes a modest but urgent start to restoring this industry with the
procurement of 1,500 marine fishing boats of all sizes and 3,400 inland
fishing crafts together with diesel engines for 100 of the larger marine
fishing fleet and complementary fishing equipment, nylon nets and floats.
The fisheries component of the project would be executed by the Directorate
of Fisheries and the East Pakistan Fisheries Development Corporation, a
semi-autonomous body with project offices in Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar,
Khulna and Dubla Island and subsidiary centers located along the coast.
Water Transport Equipment and Terminal Facilities
3.10      Only a brief review was possible by Bank staff of the require-
ments for this sector. A 1964 report on "The Provision of Port Facilities
and Landing Stages in the Cyclone-Affected Coastal Islands in East Pakistan"
prepared for EPIWTA by TECSULT International Ltd., of Canada provided a
solid information base however for this review. Reconstruction and improve-
ment of facilities for water transport are clearly essential to bring the
economy of the coastal areas back to normal. In view of the peculiar ter-
rain of the project area concrete jetties are not feasible. The twenty
terminal installations proposed to be set up under the project would
be floating steel structures with pre-fabricated gangways. Buildings
suitable for shelter, would be constructed at each terminal. The project
would also cover the cost of tugs for movement and placement of the float-
ing installation. Other water transport reconstruction requirements, In-
cluding aids-to-navigation, survey and buoy tender vessels and receiving
vessels, would also be covered under the Credit.
Other Programs and Contingencies
3.11      The proposed IDA project provides for sundry rehabilitation and
reconstruction items which are suitable for IDA financing but are not yet
documented fully. Such provision would provide desirable flexibility and
facilitate negotiations with other aid agencies. Among the items which
might fall in this residual category are: cyclone warning systems and
meteorological equipment requirements, telecommunications and agricultural
requirements. Better storm surge forecasts are dependent on wind speed
measurement of cyclones through aerial reconnaissance. The instrumentation,
ground equipment, training and technical assistance needed in this connec-
tion would be provided under the Credit. Telecommunication investments



- 8 -
might also include replacement of the damaged land line system by VHF/UHF
base stations and transmission networks. Agricultural requirements would
include tillers, tractors and draught animals required to extend winter
cropping and help replace the 280,000 head of cattle lost in the cyclone.
However, such items would be financed under the proposed Credit only if
no other suitable sources of finance are available.
C. Tentative AUocation of the Credit
3.12      A tentative cost estimate and allocation of the proceeds of the
credit among the items included in the project are presented below:
1/
Tentative Cost Estimate and Credit Allocation-
In PRs million        In US$ million       IDA
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Credit
Technical Assistance              2.0    5.0    7.0    0.5    1.0    1.5   1.3
Fresh Water Supplies -
deep wells, shallow wells
and storage tanks                6.0    4.0   10.0    1.3    0.8    2.1   1.5
Coastal Embankments              19.0    5.0   24.0    4.0    1.0    5.0   3.0
Rural Infrastructure, i.e.
major roads and rural roads
rehabilitation, minor drain-
age works and multipurpose
development centers             37.0    5.0   42.0    7.7    1.1    8.8   5.0
Fisheries - marine and inland  12.5   11.5   24.0    2.6    2.4    5.0   3.7
Water Transport - terminal
facilities and equipment       17.0   24.0   41.0    3.4    5.1    8.5   6.8
Other Programs (agricultural
supplies, telecommunications,
storm warning equipment, etc.)
and contingencies                2.5   17.5   20.0    0.5    3.6    4.1   3.7
96.0   72.0  168.0   20.0   15.0   35.0  25.0
1/   Figures rounded
3.13      The tentative allocations summarized above (and detailed in Annex
2) are based on preliminary reviews by Bank Group technical missions that
were in the field at the time and since the cyclone and on feasibility
studies undertaken during the past few years coverlng parts of the Program.
A Bank Group mission with experience in several of the ongoing programs,
such as the Rural Works and Thana Irrigation Programs reviewed the actual
Development Program of the last five years of each of the 19 Thanas in the
cyclone affected zone against the earlier aerial surveys of damage. Costs
for earthworks, in particular, were based on past experience in these
programs which has been well documented for each district and Thana in the
affected area. Quantity estimates for the reconstruction of coastal em-
bankments and the rural infrastructure works have been based on detailed
damage estimates prepared by Government agencies assisted by consultants.



-9-
3.14      Under the project, IDA would finance 100% of the foreign exchange
cost and 50% of the local currency cost of each approved sub-project. The
Government of Pakistan would cover the balance of the local currency cost.
The proposed Credit would thus finance about 71% of the cost of US$35 mil-
lion equivalent for those items in the Reconstruction Program included in
the project.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.15      In view of the urgency of the major project elements of the Recon-
struction Program, and the severe time limits imposed by the advent of the
monsoon, it may frequently not be desirable or practicable to follow the
usual Bank/IDA procurement procedures. For example, some of the urgently
needed equipment under the different project elements may have to be obtained
from the most expeditious sources, including local distributors. Similarly,
to ensure timely execution of the sub-projects, civil work contracts will
often need to be negotiated with contractors already established in the area
without the usual bidding procedures. However, the disbursement and super-
vision procedures to be agreed for each sub-project will ensure that pro-
curement under the Credit will be efficient and economical (see para. 4.04).
3.16      IDA funds are expected to be substantially committed before the
advent of the monsoon and fully disbursed by mid-1972. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained that external independent auditors, i.e., registered
commercial auditors would be employed for certifying expenditures under the
proposed Credit prior to submission to the Association of withdrawal applica-
tions relating to such expenditures.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Government has formally constituted the Reconstruction Board
for Cyclone-Affected Areas, under the chairmanship of the Governor, to plan,
coordinate and supervise the reconstruction work. A Reconstruction Program
Administrator will be appointed before the signing of the Credit as Secre-
tary and Chief Executive Officer of the Reconstruction Board. In the
interim, the Chairman of the Planning Commission is acting as the Adminis-
trator. The Reconstruction Program Administrator will monitor and super-
vise the execution of all projects in the Reconstruction Program in the
field. The physical execution of all projects will be the responsibility
of the Government of East Pakistan and its agencies.
4.02      The Government of Pakistan has set up a Cyclone Reconstruction
Fund for financing the Reconstruction Program. To ensure that rupee finan-
cing for the IDA sub-projects will be available promptly, a part of the
Reconstruction Fund will be set up as a Revolving Fund, which the Govern-
ment of Pakistan has agreed to replenish peridically during the reconstruc-
tion period. The setting up of this Fund with an initial deposit of Rs 20
million would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.



- 10 -
IDA Project Preparation, Evaluation and Supervision
4.03      As detailed assessment of damages is made, the items selected
for IDA financing will be defined as sub-projects. Under the different
categories described in Chapter III, suitable sub-projects have been or
will be prepared. Each sub-project submitted by the Reconstruction Board
would be appraised by IDA staff before IDA funds are committed.
4.04      Following technical and economic appraisal of sub-projects, sub-
sidiary agreements between the Association and the Government would be
worked out with the Reconstruction Board. Each agreement would state
the following:
(a) Location, definition, cost and justification of sub-
project works.
(b) Amount allocated to the sub-project from the proceeds
of the Credit.
(c) Organizational and administrative arrangements for
execution of the works.
(d) Procurement and disbursement procedures.
(e) Specific conditions required for drawing on the Credit,
including the appointment of consultants where required.
4.05      To ensure effective execution of the project works to be financed
under the Credit, the Government would appoint consultants acceptable to IDA
to complement technical expertise already available to the government depart-
ments and agencies concerned. These consultants and their terms of reference
would be approved by the Association. Provision for these consultant serv-
ices is included in the estimated costs of the project. A consultant to the
Reconstruction Program Administrator would assist in supervising and coor-
dinating the entire reconstruction effort. The Government has agreed to
suitable auditing arrangements for the Project and the Program.
V. JUSTIFICATION
5.01      It is not feasible to prepare the usual quantified economic
analysis for the project because of the nature of the reconstruction ef-
fort. Some measure of the benefits to be obtained lies in the estimated
value of the physical damage sustained. Moreover, the Program and the
particular project elements have been designed to help restore and bring
back to fruition the considerable physical and human capital of a key
economic region of the province. Experience indicates that the types of
reconstruction and rehabilitation works which would be included in the
project yield very high economic returns.



- 11 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following arrangements were confirmed during negotiations:
a)   The Government would make suitable auditing arrangements
for the Program and the Project (paras. 3.13 and 4.05);
b)   The Government would employ where deemed necessary by
the Association, consultants for sub-project preparation,
evaluation and execution (para. 4.05).
6.02      The setting up of the Revolving Fund with an initial deposit of
Rs 20 million by the Government of Pakistan would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit (para. 4.02).
6.03      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$25 million on the usual terms.






A/ND.2E1 1
Page 1
The Role of TEE RURAL WORKS PROGRAM and the Thana
Irrigation Program in the Reconstruction Program 1/
1.        The rural works program provides an effective means of dealing
rapidly with tt, aspects of the cyclone damage; it provides immediate employ-
ment for the inhabitants who have no money and no work and it provides a way
of quiickly reconstructing some of the rural facilities damaged by the
cyc lone.
2.        The hWorks Program is already in operation throughout the Province,
a system of implementation exists and plans for future work are available
for the cyclone areas. As a result a substantially enlarged Works Program
for reconstructing cyclone areas can be launched as soon as funds are avail-
able.
3.        There are four types of work that could be carried out under the
works program.
1.   Road maintenance and construction
4.        Approximately 75% of total Works Program funds have been spent on
roads. In order to carry out the reconstruction program it will be neces-
sary to have these roads useable to transport supplies to remote areas.
The Works Program should quickly be started to repair and improve existing
roads. It should also be expanded to connect, at a minimum, all Union
headquarters.
2.   Drainage and Irrigation Channels
5.        Drainage and Irrigation Projects according to experience in
recent years have the highest payoff of any Works Program activity. This
will undoubtedly be true in the cyclone areas. There is a critical need
to open drainage channels to permit remaining pockets of saline water to
run off.
6.        Irrigation is of the highest importance for the cyclone area
since it will allow the immediate leaching of salt from farm land, and
make a boro crop in 1970-71 possible. Without this there will be no crop
until the next aman which will not be harvested until November 1971.
7.        There are reported to have been 1,175 low lift pumps in the
areas affected by the cyclone, and there is no information available on
their conditions. Further, according to local irrigation plans, it simple
irrigation channels were constructed to make surface water available to
additional pump sites, the number of pumps could be increased substantially.
1/   Source:   Basic Democracies and Local Government (BD & LG) Department,
GOEP



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.   Embankments
8.        The Work Program is capable of building small, local embankments
which supplement the larger embankments constructed by WAPDA. Their
function is primarily to protect settlements from minor flooding. Like
the WAPDA embankments, the Works Program embankments have been substantially
damaged. They should be reapaired as promptly as possible.
4.   Community building
9.        Community buildings have represented only a small percentage of
Works Program expenditures. Nevertheless the buildings constructed have
been done for approximately Rs 21 per square foot while Government con-
struction agencies have not been able to produce rural building for less
than Rs 28 per square foot. Although at the time of construction there
were some who were skeptical about quality, the buildings have proven to
be of a quality equal to any other rural buildings. As a result the Works
Program should bear as large a share of the community building program as
possible, bearing in mind that construction costs will inevitably rise in
the affected areas.
10.       Since its inception in 1963 the Works Program has provided for
considerable development in the coastal areas. In terms of physical
quantities, 9,000 miles of dirt surface roads and village paths have been
constructed, 900 miles of drainage canal excavated or reexcavated and 700
miles of local embankments constructed.  Even allowing for some double
counting on roads and embankments, and recounting of the same road as it
is repaired, the addition to rural facilities in the 19 worst hit Thanas
is impressive.
11.       In planning the reconstruction of these facilities, it is neces-
sary to begin with the preliminary estimates of damage on the basis of
aerial surveys. Preliminary indications are that about 50% of the earth
work structures in these thanas have been destroyed. To obtain estimates
of the cost of reconstruction and the man-years of employment it would
provide, it is necessary to calculate from Government statistics the
average costs of a mile of dirt road, units of bridges and culverts, a
mile of canal and of embankment and average number of man days involved in
constructing these. From these it is possible to estimate the amounts
necessary to reconstruct the existing facilities. Rs 1.2 crores or
$2.5 million will be required for this work. This amount will also
create 5.5 million man days of labor, all or most of all unskilled labor.
Of the total expenditure, Rs 86 lakhs or $1.8 million will be paid in
wages.
12.       The reconstruction Works Program, along with the Thana Irrigation
Program, which will create agricultural employment will probably use much
of the availability of labor supply, making additional new construction
impossible. However, for the subsequent year 1971-72, substantially
larger than normal, Works Program allocations should be made to allow the
program to contribute the efforts to build cyclone resistant community
buildings, and to expand the rural infrastructure necessary for a more



ANNEX 1
Page 3
adequate redevelopment of the area. The allocation of these funds to
specific projects should be the responsibility of the local councils, as
is normally done under the Works Program. The allocation for this
purpose should be approximately 50% larger in 1971-72 or Rs 2.4 crores
($5 million). On the basis over a two-year period, $7.5 million should be
invested in these cyclone damaged thanas.
The Thana Irrigation Program
13.       The Thana Irrigation Program provides important promise for
reconstruction of the cyclone areas. Although they are coastal, many of
the thanas concerned have substantial fresh water supplies. If a maximum
advantage can be taken of this it will make a major difference in the
economic recovery of these areas. Without irrigation there can be no
crops until the next monsoon leaches the salinity from the land. This
means that the first crop would be Aman in 1971 which would be harvested
in November 1971, thus causing the area to live on food imported into the
region for one year. However, if the maximum number of pumps can be
fielded 66,800 acres could be planted in rice in January 1971 and harvested
in April and May 1971. Thus substantially reducing the dependence on out-
side relief.
14.       Because of the high potential of this program it is essential
that all possible pumps be used. Therefore, it is necessary that all
Thana Irrigation Officers be required to report immediately on the number
of pumps in these thanas that are still operable. Those that are not
should be replaced immediately, and additional pumps set up to the maximum
that the thanas have included in their irrigation plans.
15.       Immediate action is needed to carry out this program.  The
season for planting boro or winter rice is December, or at the latest
January. Unless this opportunity is taken there will be a considerable
loss. The rewards at prompt action will be high.
An Orcanizational Pattern at the Rural Level for the KjKogam
15.       The program for reconstruction will only be successful if an
effective organization can be established to direct and operate it. The
problems or re-establishing the economy of the coastal regions rapidly
but without turning the inhabitants out of the areas into permanent
welfare clients of the Government are tremendous. Fortunately, East
Pakistan has developed a system of rural organization that provides an
effective instrument for reconstruction as well as rural development work.
16.       The Droposed system has the following components, starting at
tThe village level and wvorking up:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
1.   The Village Cooperative Societies
17.       The basic organizational unit of the Coastal Reconstruction
Program will be the Village Cooperative Society. Through these societies
the people of the area would be provided with the basic tools to rebuild.
And through these societies they could accept responsiblity for and be
held accountable for the assistance they receive. These items would be
both agricultural and trade societies, so that villagers other than farmers
can share in the reconstruction Program.
18.       Experience has shown that only as the villagers organized as
a society do they become an economically viable unit.  Once organized,               I
their needs and requirements can be better judged by their fellow villagers,
system far superior to requiring officers of the government unfamiliar with
the local situation to make such decisions.
19.       The rural programs have demonstrated that villagers, once enrolled
in cooperative societies, accept along with the benefits of membership the
disciplines of membership.  Only in this way, with the pressures from their
fellow villagers can there be any real hope of enforcing a repayment
discipline.  In developing these societies, East Pakistan is fortunate to
have the highly successful Commilla 1/ model to build upon. As the coop-
erative system builds, its leaders will have to look continually at Comilla
to benefit from the ideas listed and developed there.
20.       The experience of Comilla also shows that the cooperative socie-
ties grow most rapidly when the supporting programs are foccused on pro-
docution. In this the coastal area coooeratives will have a great ad-
vantage since the rapid rehabilitation of agriculture through the supply
of irrigation water and the o.her inputs to modern agriculture.
21.       The cooperat'Zve system recommended here is similar to that which
is to be extended through the Province under the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Prcgrani. The only difference being that this: system will also acco-
modate investment in these cooperatives at their initial stage than there
will be in the other newly organized cooperatives.
22.       Since this system is similar to the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program it would be appropriate for the Program to shift its plans for
phased expansion so that the coastal area cooperatives become the next step
in its expansion. All the efforts and capabilities of the Integrated Rural
Development Program should be put into the Coastal Area Reconstruction
Program as Phase II of its expansion beyound the present 50 thanas.
1/   A detailed description of the cooperative system that was originally
set up as the Comilla District is given as Annex 7, Volume II Agricul-
tural Annexes of the Action Program Report (No. PS-2a dated July 17,
1970).



ra -e c
23.       It is lard to show quantitatively a series of direct economic
benefits deriving from the E:ffort of establishing shuch an organizational
system built on village level cooperatives.  Rather the organization svsteLll
slhould be viewed as a prerequisite for the other rmore directly productive
programs. In fact, the probabilities of this Coastal Reconstruction Prog-
ran being successful in achieving its objectives of restoring the economic
life of the coastal areas are substantially higher if any effective two-tier
cooperative system can be established.
24.       Each Tliana Federation would be headed by a Project Officer, who
would serve the critical ftnction of being both the organizer of village
Societies and the administrator of the Thana Federation. This will be an
exceedingly critical but difficult job. In order to accomplish it, it will
be necessary to have well trained and experienced cooperative organizers.
To obtain this, both the Comilla and Chittagong cooperatives system must be
requested to provide enough of their best and most experienced organizers so
that the Project Officer's post in the worst affected Thanas can be filled
by them.
25.       The Thana Federation will be required to provide the discipline
for the village societies. It will have to enforce repayment requirements,
savings rules and credit restrictions. This function is necessary if the
villagers are to play a serious role in their own rehabilitation. The
Thana Fede-ation will also serve as the official sactioning, and accounting
agency for the village societies. It will also provide a program of trainini
for villagers for this program. They will then be responsible for over-
seeing its implementation. In order to insure the progress of the program
the representatives of the other technical agencies such as health, agri-
culture or education will have to be made responsible to the Circle Officer.
2.   The Thana Cooperative Federation
26.       The Thana Federation would be built on the Comilla model and
would operate under the auspices of the Village Cooperative Societies, both
Agricultural and Special, will need a Thana Federation which will provide a
service and education functions for them. The Thana Federation will serve
as a conduit for supplving the villagers. Each Thana Federation will serve
as a cooperative banking institution for the village societies. Under
its auspices there will be a machine station which will serve as a main-
tenance center for low lift pumps, which will maintain and supply to village!
on requisition tractors and power tillers and which will control and
serve any other mechanical equipment provided to the area, such as boats
for fishermen, cooperatives or vehicles. The heads of the principal depart-
ments and agencies, the Integrated Rural Development Program and the Academy
for Rural Development involved would be represented. It should also include
one or two private citizens. The agency should have an Executive Secretary
who is of rank equivalent to members of the Agencies Board of Directors.
27.       This agency would be responsible for the administration of
reconstruction credits to the rural sector and for the allocation of other
funds and supplies provided for such reconstruction purposes.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
3.   Thana Level Administration
28.       Because of the importance of rapid action and good coordination,
the Thana administration should come directly under the coordination of
Program Administrator. Since the reconstruction program will be limited
primarily to the 19 Thanas which have been most seriously damaged, there is
no need for any intermediate administrative stages.
29.       At the Thana level the Circle Officer (Development) will assume
a greatly expanded role as coordinator of all the rehabilitation work in
the Thana. He would be made responsible for the immediate creation of a
Thana rehabilitation plan along the guidelines, that will be established.



ANNEX 2
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT FOR CYCLONE DAMAGED
COASTAL AREAS OF EAST PAKISTAN
Tentative Cost Estimate
In PRs million         In US$ million
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
I.  Technical Assistance                2.0    5.0    T.0       0.5    1.0    1.5
II. Fresh Water Supplies
1. 2,000 shallow wells              0.5    2.5    3.0      0.1    0.5    o.6
2. Deep wells and tanks             0.9    5.4    6.3      1.1    0.2    1.3
3. Consulting and other services   o.4    0.6    1.0       0.1    0.1    0.2
1.8    8.5   10.3      1.3    0.8    2.1
III.  Coastal Embankments
1. Embankments                     12.0    1.5   13.5      2.5    0.5    3.0
2. Sluice repair                    0.5    1.5    2.0      0.1    0.3    0.4
3. Buildings and other works        5.0      -     5.0     1.0      -     1.0
4. Engineering and other            2.0    1.0    3.0      0.4    0.2    o.6
19.5    4.0   23.5      4.0   1.0    5.0
IV. Rural Infrastructure
1. 205 mi. major roads              6.0    1.0    7.0       1.2    0.2    1.4
2. 570 mi. feeder roads             4.5      -     4.5     0.9      -     0.9
3. 340 bridges and culverts         4.0    1.0    5.0      0.9    0.2    1.1
4. Rural development centers       22.5    3.0   25.5    _47    0.7    5.4
37.0    5.0   42.0      7.7    1.1    8.8
V.  Fisheries
1. 4,900 boats                       7.5     -     7.5      1.6     -     1.6
2. 750,000 lbs. nylon twine           -     7.0    7.0       -     1.5    1.5
3. Net making                       3.0      -     3.0     o.6      -     0.6
4. Gear and equipment                -      1.0    1.0       -     0.2    0.2
5. Diesel engines (100)              -      0.5    0.5       -     0.1    0.1
6. Other                            2.0    3.0    5.0       0.4    o.6    1.0
12.5   11.5   24.0      2.6    2.4    5.0
VI. Water Transport
1. Terminal facilities (20)         7.5    6.5   14.0       1.5    1.4    2.9
2. Survey equipment                 1.0    1.5    2.5       0.2    0.3    0.5
3. Tugs and vessels                 2.0    9.0   11.0      0.4    1.8    2.2
4. Navigational aids                4.0    5.0    9.0       0.8    1.1    1.9
5. Other                            2.5    2.o    4.5      0.5    0-5    1.0
17.0   24.0   41.0      3.4    5.1    8.5
VII. Other Programs
1. Agriculture                      1.5    7.5    9.0       0.3    1.5    1.8
2. Cyclone warning and
telecommunication              0.5    1.5    2.0      0.1    0.3    0.4
3. Other and contingencies          0.5    8.5    9.0       0.1    1.8    1.9
2.5   17.5   20.0      0.5    3.6    4.1
GRAND TOTAL                        96.o   72.0  168.0    20.0   15.0   35.0






f4L^ of 1/I4hte F/yhf (IT[<@7i) noJISAf/cW7o 
&~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ 'huI'                                                                                                                                 emm-                                                                         ri't ov nAr\r.I                                   \N
N                                                                                                                                                                         .  . ........
rom rel,rerwr(ur p hr x2r                                                                                              '~                                                    ES
9pider   /rnmz    cre   bwdeC   nt   u~strict  txnderlZ    ox    rMnTb                                    \ \     '   ''                     A   T  PAKIN D IAr
between Pxu I pnd rxfe Ir xider                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \  '\-I                                        .
(D~ ~                                             ~ o    Ylo        h1,e                                                                                                                                                                                                 \  r v./rZ°      r
_                                                                                                                                          _             L E E D i H  L 1   o C L E U w   E N G  N E E R -
>    C4.~~~~~~~~~~ (~~~~~~~~ldI~~~~~~'l ~~~~BURMA
LEGEN
NiOTE                                                                                                                          PM.~ P  -O   ..-
C--000001 aI  hoo =    ,,A  c,I.on   fll,01M    042,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST  PA-ISTA
Z10000'fl   CtOIT -1.d , .0T.101iC ld lo-e  41,.ATER AN.A  POWER
PUUI   Irp  or. AoWed  Ir pdliji hl,O,   ndgef                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ELEOPMENT  AUTHORTY
LEEDSOILLCC ELEUW E-NGIERS



