CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 228 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistan Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 228 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(East Pakistai Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1971, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Province of East Pakistan is engaged in carrying out
a reconstruction program initially described in a report prepared by the Government
of Pakistan with the assistance of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, entitled "Pakistan - A Reconstruction Program for the Cyclone
Damaged Coastal Areas of East Pakistan" (hereinafter called the Reconstruction
Program);
(B)   The Borrower and the Province of East Pakistan have requested the
Association to assist the Borrower in implementing the Reconstruction Program
by assisting in financing the part thereof described as the Project in Schedule I
to this Agreement, by extending a development credit;
(C)  The Province of East Pakistan will, with the Borrower's assistance, carry
out or cause to be carried out the Reconstruction Program and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Province of East Pakistan the
proceeds of the development credit provided for herein and such other amounts
as are required in respect of such parts of the Reconstruction Program as are partly
financed out of the proceeds of the credit;
(D)  The Association is willing to make a development credit in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000)
available for that purpose upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and
in a project agreement of even date herewith between the Province of East Pakistan
and the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5.  The term 'Borrower' means the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,
acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Province" means the Province of East Pakistan, a political subdivision
of the Borrower.
(b)   "Reconstruction Board" means the Reconstruction Board for the
Cyclone Affected Areas of East Pakistan, an agency established
pursuant to the Borrower's Order notified under No. F7/3/70-ORD
dated December 30, 1970.
(c)   "Reconstruction Program Administrator" means the Member Secretary
of the Reconstruction Board, appointed by the Reconstruction Board
pursuant to Section 4 of the Order referred to in paragraph (b) hereof.
(d)   "Reconstruction Fund  means the fund established pursuant to the
Province's  Orders    Nos. 66/ADMN     and    67/ADMN     dated
January 11, 197 1, from which all expenditures for the Reconstruction
Program in respect of projects, sub-projects or schemes apprc ved by
the Reconstruction Board are to be met and into which are to be
deposited all amounts obtained by the Province for the purpose of
the Reconstruction Program in respect of such projects, sub-projects
or schemes.
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Province and
the  Association  of  even  date  herewith, providing   for  the
implementation of the Project, and shall include any amendments
thereof made by agreement between the Province and the Association.
(f)   "Sub-project" means a specific study, survey or investment to be
carried out as part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿5
of the Credit, in accordance with Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement.
(g)   "Sub-project Agreement" means any agreement entered into between
the Province and the Association pursuant to Section 2.01 of the
Project Agreement and relating to a Sub-project approved by the
Association and the Reconstruction Board.
(h)   "Rupees" and the sign "Rs." mean rupees in the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account,
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for each Sub-project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and in accordance with
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit agreed upon from time to time by
the Province and the Association in respect of each such Sub-project in accordance
with Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be paid) for the c.i.f. (Dacca/Chittagong) price
of goods produced outside the territories of the Borrower and
required for such Sub-project;
(ii)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be paid) in currencies other than currency of
the Borrower for services supplied from outside the territories
of the Borrower and required for such Sub-project; and
(iii)       the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid)


﻿6
in respect of goods or services required for such Sub-project
other than those referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) hereof.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit or the
equivalent thereof to the Province a3 and when such proceeds are withdrawn from
the Credit Account, on the same financial terms as those of the Credit except
that the principal amount of, and service charges on, the aggregate amount so
relent shall be repayable to the Borrower by the Province in Rupees; the amounts
so relent shall be deposited by the Borrower into the Reconstruction Fund promptly
upon the withdrawal from the Credit Account of the corresponding proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1972, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15   and   October 15    commencing   April 15, 1981   and   ending
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Reconstruction Program Administrator and any person
designated by him is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project to be carried
out, under the supervision of the Reconstruction Board, in the manner agreed
between the Province and the Association pursuant to Section 2.01 of the Project
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with sound
agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial practices, and the Borrower
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, authorizations,
licenses and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section or of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall deposit
or cause to be deposited in the revolving fund part of the Reconstruction Fund
referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement all amounts required to enable
the Province to make, promptly as needed, all payments for the cost of goods
and services required to carry out the Project and all Sub-projects. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made an initial deposit
in such revolving fund in the amount of twenty million Rupees (Rs.20,000,000)
and thereafter shall make or cause to be made deposits in such revolving fund
in such amounts as shall be required to ensure that an amount of twenty million
Rupees shall be available to the Province in such revolving fund at the beginning
of each month after the initial deposit, for the purposes of making the payments
heretofore referred to.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause all its agencies to
take, all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the Province to
perform all its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take, nor
permit any of its agencies to take, any action that would interfere with the
performance of such obligations by the Province.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration and operations (including revenues and expenditures)
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower or of the Province responsible
for carrying out any Sub-project or part thereof, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration and operations (including revenues and expenditures)
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower or of the Province responsible
for carrying out any Sub-project or part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by the Province of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. ' he Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿9
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, if the event
specified in Section 6.02 (a) of this Agreement shall occur, or if the event specified
in Section 6.02 (b) of this Agreement shall occur and such event shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and to the Province, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon ally such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   before completion of the Project, the Reconstruction Board shall have
been dissolved or disestablished, its functions and responsibilities shall
have been modified, the Reconstruction Fund shall have been dissolved,
or its conditions of operation shall have been modified, so as adversely
to affect the carrying out of the Project or any Sub-project; and
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance by the Province of
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   the Project Agreement shall have been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Province and such execution and delivery on such
behalf shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action; and
(b)   the initial deposit of twenty million Rupees (Rs.20,000,000) into the
revolving fund, part of the Reconstruction Fund required under Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, shall have been made by the Borrower.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf
of the Province have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action, and that the Project Agreement constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Province in accordance with its terms;
and
(b)   that the Reconstruction Board and the Reconstruction Fund (including
the revolving fund part thereof referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement) have been duly established in conformity with all
applicable legislation and regulations of the Borrower and of the
Province.
Section 7.03. The date February 15, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Coordination and External Assistance Division, is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Coordination and External
Assistance Division
Islamabad, Pakistan


﻿With copy to:
The Reconstruction Program Administrator
Reconstruction Board for Cyclone
Affected Areas
East Pakistan Secretariat
Dacca, East Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
With copy to:
Development
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
With copy to:
International Development Association
G.P.O. Box 97
Dacca, East Pakistan
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
With copy to:
Intbafrad
Dacca
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s / A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative, for and
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Reconstruction Program to be carried out in East
Pakistan under the supervision of the Reconstruction Board, and consists of:
(i)         a detailed field assessment of cyclone damage, the preparation
and supervision (including auditing) of specific reconstruction
schemes and the overall planning and supervision of the Project;
(ii)        tho installation and equipment of shallow tubewells and deep
tubewells and water storage tanks for community centers; and
the purchase of related equipment, supplies and vehicles;
(iii)       the reconstruction of coastal embankments, the replacement of
sluices, and related works and equipment;
(iv)        the rehabilitation of rural infrastructure by means of the
reconstruction and improvement of the road network, the
construction of drainage and irrigation channels, the repair of
local embankments to protect settlements from minor flooding,
and the construction of multipurpose rural development centers
to serve as storm shelters;
(v)         the reconstruction and improvement of the marine and inland
fishing industry by providing marine fishing boats, small inland
fishing craft and complementary fishing equipment and diesel
engines;
(vi)        the reconstruction and improvement of water transport facilities
by installing terminal facilities and related installations and
providing related floating equipment;
(vii)       the rehabilitation of agriculture by providing farmers or their
cooperatives with agricultural equipment and livestock;
(viii)      the improvement of the meteorological early warning system,
the provision of telecommunication equipment, and related
works; and


﻿14
(ix)       such other studies, surveys and investments in buildings, works,
equipment and machinery required for the Reconstruction
Program as shall be included in the Project by agreement between
the Borrower, the Province and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1972.


