CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 228 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakistan Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 228 PAK
Project Agreement
(East Pakistan Reconstruction Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January      13, 1971, between PROVINCE OF EAST
PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called the Province), and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to assist in the financing of the part
of the Reconstruction Program (as defined in such agreement) described as the
Project in Schedule 1 to such agreement and to make available to the Borrower
a development credit in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in such
agreement, but only on condition that the Province agree to undertake certain
obligations to the Association as hereinafter in the Project Agreement set forth;
and
(B)   The Province, in consideration of the Association's entering into such
development credit agreement with the Borrower, and of the relending of the
proceeds of such development credit to the Province as provided in such agreement,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in the Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
Section 2.01. (a) Each Sub-project to be carried out as part of the Project
described in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the manner in which


﻿4
such Sub-project shall be carried out, the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
to expenditures on such Sub-project, the portion of expenditures for goods and
services for such Sub-project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement and the method and procedures for the procurement of such goods
and services shall be agreed from time to time between the Province and the
Association in a Sub-project Agreement, a conformed copy of which shall, promptly
upon its execution, be transmitted to the Borrower by the Province.
(b)   To that end, the Province shall promptly submit to the Association
for its review a description of each proposed Sub-project, including a description
of the costs thereof and the proposed sources of financing, an assessment of the
benefits expected therefrom, and such other information as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, such description to be prepared by the agency
responsible for its execution and to be approved by the Reconstruction Board.
Section 2.02. (a) The Province shall cause a part of the Reconstruction Fund
to be established in the form of a revolving fund to be used exclusively to make
payments for the cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project
and all Sub-projects.
(b)   The amounts relent by the Borrower to the Province pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be promptly deposited
in the Reconstruction Fund and the amounts to be made available to the Province
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement
shall be promptly deposited in such revolving fund for the purposes of making
the payments heretofore referred to.
Section 2.03. The Province shall cause each Sub-project to be carried out,
under the supervision of the Reconstruction Board, in the manner agreed between
the Province and the Association in the Sub-project Agreement relating thereto,
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with sound agricultural,
engineering, administrative and financial practices.
Section 2.04. (a) At the request of the Province or of the Association,
consultants acceptable to the Association shall be employed to an extent and upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in order to assist the
Reconstruction Board in the planning and supervision of the Project.
(b)   At the request of the Province or of the Association, consultants
acceptable to the Association shall be employed to an extent and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of assisting in the
carrying out of one or more Sub-projects.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Province shall apply the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and allocated
to each Sub-project exclusively to expenditures on such Sub-project in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Sub-project Agreement relating
to such Sub-project.
Section 2.06. Except as the Province and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Province shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement (i) to be procured in accordance with the methods and procedures set
forth in the Sub-project Agreement relating to each Sub-project, and (ii) to be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-projects to which such proceeds
have been allocated pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. The Province undertakes to insure or make adequate provision
for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Province to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 2.08. (a) The Province shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports, specifications and progress and
procurement schedules for the Project and each Sub-project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Province: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Reconstruction Program, the Project and
each Sub-project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Development Credit Agreement, to disclose the use thereof in the Project
and in each Sub-project, and to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of the
Reconstruction Fund; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
each Sub-project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to the Province, the financial records of the Reconstruction Fund and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Reconstruction Fund,
the Reconstruction Program, the Project and each Sub-project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 2.09. (a) The Province shall employ or cause to be employed
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association: (i) to audit the records and financial transactions
of the Reconstruction Fund (including those relating to the Project and all
Sub-projects), and of any department or agency of the Borrower or of the Province
responsible for carrying out any part of the Reconstruction Program, in respect
of the carrying out of such part of the Reconstruction Program; and (ii) to certify
the application of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Development Credit Agreement, to expenditures in Rupees on each
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
and of the Sub-project Agreement relating to such Sub-project.
(b)   The Province shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, all certificates of such auditors under
sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and, not later than six months after the close
of the fiscal year to which they apply, all reports of such auditors under
sub-paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, as well as any such other information
concerning such audits or certifications as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.10. The Province shall take or cause to be taken all measures
reasonably required to ensure the adequate maintenance and repair of works,
buildings, installations and equipment included in the Project in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices, for a period of at least ten years from
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. The Province and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Province
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance by the Province
of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the progress of the Reconstruction
Program and the Project, the administration and operations (including revenues
and expenditures) of the Reconstruction Fund and of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower or of the Province responsible for carrying out the Reconstruction
Program, the Project or any Sub-project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Province shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿7
concerning the Reconstruction Program, the Project, any Sub-project, and the
administration and operations (including revenues and expenditures) of the
Reconstruction Fund and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower or of
the Province responsible for carrying out the Project or any Sub-project.
(b)   The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the performance by the Province of its obligations under
the Project Agreement or the progress of the Reconstruction Program, the Project
or any Sub-project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall become effective in accordance
with the provisions thereof.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereunder
shall terminate: (i) on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or (ii) on the date on which the Province
shall have repaid to the Borrower the full amount of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement, whichever of these two dates shall be the earlier.
Section 4.03. Notwithstanding any partial cancellation of the amount of the
Credit or any suspension of the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account, all the provisions of the Project Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect except as in Section 4.02 of this Agreement specifically
provided.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under the Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by the Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified,


﻿8
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chairman, Planning & Development Board
Government of East Pakistan
Dacca, East Pakistan
With copy to:
The Reconstruction Program Administrator
Reconstruction Board for Cyclone Affected Areas
East Pakistan Secretariat
Dacca, East Pakistan
Cable address:
Development
Dacca
With copy to:
Reconstruction Program Administrator
Development
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
With copy to:
International Development Assocition
G.P.O. Box 97
Dacca, East Pakistan


﻿9
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
With copy to:
Intbafrad
Dacca
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under the Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Province, may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the
Planning & Development Board of the Government of East Pakistan or such other
person or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
Section 5.04. The Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Province,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by the Province pursuant to any of the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.05. The Project Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF EAST PAKISTAN
By /s / A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


