CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 339 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coastal Area Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 339 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coastal Area Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 18, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1972, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) On January 13, 1971 the Association agreed to make
available a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 228) in an amount
eqLlivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) to assist in the financing
of a project for reconstruction of the cyclone affected area in the Districts of
Khulna, Patuakhali, Barisal, Noakhali and Chittagong (hereinafter called the
Reconstruction Project); but the Reconstruction Project was not implemented and
no withdrawals were made from the Credit Account opened by the Association
under Credit No. 228;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to reinstate its financial
assistance for the Reconstruction Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, by
*        extending to the Borrower a development credit for such purpose;
(C)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Reconstruction Board" m3ans the Reconstruction Board for the
Cyclone Affected Area in the territories of the Borrower, an agency
established pursuant to Order No. F7/3/70-ORD dated December 30,
1970, and reconstituted by Order No. P/AI/4B-1/72/1740 dated
September 28, 1972.
(b)   "Reconstruction Fund" means the special revolving fund established
by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(b)
of this Agreement.
(c)   "Project Administrator" means the Project Administrator appointed
by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(c)
of this Agreement.
(d)   "Project Coordinator"' means the Project Coordinator appointed by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(d)
of this Agreement.
(e)   "Takas" and the sign "Tk" mean takas in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the P:oject described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of l'() per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1983, and ending October 15, 2022 each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1992 to be one-half of one ' r cent (1/2
of 1'> of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
' one-half per cent (1-1/2'$) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, through the
Reconstruction Board acting under the overall responsibility of the Borrower's
Planning Commission, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without restriction
or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01, the Borrower
shall (i) establish or cause to be established a special revolving fund (hereinafter
called the Reconstruction Fund) to be used for the sole purpose of making
payments for goods and services required for the Project, (ii) deposit or cause
0


﻿6
to be deposited in the Reconstruction Fund initially an amount of twenty million
Takas (Tk20,000,000) and thereafter on the first day of* each calendar month such
amount as shall be required to maintain the Reconstruction Fund at a level which
will be sufficient to meet payments expected to be made by the Borrower for
the Project during the forthcoming three months, as estimated on the basis of
the Project work schedules, and (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of the Reconstruction Fund.
(c)   The Borrower shall appoint a qualified and experienced Project
Administrator who shall be a Member of the Reconstruction Board and empowered
on its behalf to administer the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall appoint, on a full-time basis, a qualified and
experienced Project Coordinator who shall be a Member Secretary of the
Reconstruction Board and empowered on its behalf to act as chief executive officer
for the Project, with authority to operate the Reconstruction Fund and such other
authorities, functions and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports and work and procurement
schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cau3e to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents, including the


﻿7
records and documents of the Reconstruction Fund and, in respect of the Project,
of the Reconstruction Board; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the Reconstruction Fund, the Reconstruction Board, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the land or rights in respect to land required for the execution, operation and
maintenance of the Project shall be acquired as and when needed for such purpose,
under terms and conditions which ensure that the landowners whose land is thus
affected receive full and prompt compensation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
reasonably required to ensure the adequate maintenance and repair of works,
buildings, installations and equipment included in the Project in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices, for a period of at least ten years from
the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Part of the Project to be
carried out by the respective department or agency of the Borrower set forth
hereunder:
(i)        Part A   (Inland Water, Transport Equipment and Terminal
Facilities) - Inland Water Transport Authority:
(ii)       Part B   (Telecommunications) - Telegraph   and Telephone
Department of the Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone:
(iii)      Part C (Multipurpose Cyclone Shelters) - Buildings Directorate
of the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development:
(iv)       Part D (Primary Roads) - Roads and Highways Directorate of
the Ministry of Communications:
(v)        Part E (Feeder Roads) - Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives;


﻿8
(vi)        Part F (Coastal Fisheries) - Fisheries Development Corporation;
(vii)       Part G (Cyclone Warning System) - Meteorological Department
of the Ministry of Defence; and
(viii)      Part H (Consultants' Services, VehicIds and Imported Equipment
for Project Management and Supervision) - Office of the Project
Coordinator.
(b)   Each department or agency referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) to (vii)
inclusively of paragraph (a) of this Section 4.01 shall, for the purpose set forth
in said paragraph (a), establish a special unit under a sub-Project Manager with
suitable supporting staff, and be responsible to the Project Coordinator.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes, with specific reference to Part A
of the Project, that:
(a)   the Association will be promptly notified of any proposed material
change in the location of the new port terminal facilities;
(b)   the Borrower will provide or cause to be provided to the Inland Water
Transport Authority such financial resources as may be required for the efficient
operation and maintenance of the new port terminal facilities for a period of at
least ten years from the date of construction thereof; and
(c)   the Inland Water Transport Authority will retain the services of a
competent technical adviser to assist its sub-Project Manager in the implementation
of Part A of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes, with specific reference to Part B
of the Project, that:
(a)   towers, masts, aerials and buildings will be designed to withstand
cyclonic winds, occurring simultaneously with tidal flood; and, whenever
practicable, equipment will be housed above the maximum recorded flood level;
and
(b)   without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.04
of this Agreement, all land and existing accommodation required for Part B of
the Project will be promptly provided by the Borrower, as and when needed, and
will be suitable for the Telegraph and Telephone Department's requirements; the
Borrower will ensure completion by the scheduled dates of the necessary buildings


﻿9
and access roads; and the Borrower will provide transport over water for the
Telegraph and Telephone Dep2rtment until the Telegraph aid Telephone
Department acquires its own boats.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes, with specific reference to Part C
of the Project, that:
(a)   sites will be selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b)   the Borrower will, by March 31, 1973 lor such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association) submit to the
Association detailed plans satisfactory to the Association for the use of the
multipurpose buildings as schools.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes, with specific reference to Part )
of the Project, that:
(a)   local c, iulting engineers acceptable to the Association will be
appointed for survey work on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
and
(b)   the Roads and Highways Directorate will make available the necessary
compaction equipment to earthworks contractors.
Section 4.06. The Borrower undertakes, with specific reference to Part H
of the Project, that consultants acceptable to the Association will be employed
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Reconstruction Board and of any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out or operating the Project or any part
the-eof,
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year of the Reconstruction Fund, the Reconstruction Board and of


﻿10
any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
or operating the Project or any part thereof to be audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by competent and experienced
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of said accounts and financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors; (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Reconstruction Fund, and, in respect of the Project, of the
Reconstruction Board and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out or operating any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 6.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Reconstruction Fund and, in respect of the Project, of the
Reconstruction Board and of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out or operating any part of the Project.


﻿*                                   11
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 7.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 7.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 7.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Association
Section 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 8.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 8.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
t1i following additional event is specified:


﻿12
Before completion of the Project, the Reconstruction Board shall have
been dissolved or disestablished, or its functions or responsibilities shall have
been modified, or the Reconstruction Fund shall have been dissolved, or
its conditions of operation shall have been modified, so as, in the judgment
of the Association, to affect adversely the carrying out of the Project.
Section 8.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: the event specified in Section 8.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE IX
Termination
Section 9.01. The date December 18, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
40


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partes hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.M.A. Muhith
Authorizecl Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President,
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
Category. The percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each Category
shall be 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures. The items
to be financed within each Category and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to such items shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                      Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Goods and Services for Part A of
the Project (Inland Water, Transport
Equipment and Terminal Facilities)                  5,740,0
II.        Goods and Services for Part B of
the Project (Telecommunications)                    5,610,0
III.       Goods and Services for Part C of
the Project (Multipurpose Cyclone
Shelters)                                           3,950,000
IV.        Goods and Services for Part D of
the Project (Primary Roads)                         2,140,000
V.         Goods and Services for Part E of
the Project (Feeder Roads)                          2,040,000
VI.        Goods and Services for Part F of
the Project (Coastal Fisheries)                     1,850,000
VII.       Goods and Services for Part G of
the Project (Cyclone Warning
System)                                              470,000
VIII.      Goods and Services for Part H of
the Project (Consultants' Services,
Vehicles and Imported Equipment for
Project Management and Supervision)                  200,000
IX.        Unallocated                                         3, 00o,0
TOTAL-            25,00,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made, in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to September 1, 1972;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in paragraph I above in respect of any
Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage
shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on
account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   local expenditures for land acquisition, staff salaries and over-heads;
and
(d)   local expenditures for which there shall not have been submitted to
the Association a certificate by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
that such expenditures have been incurred for the purposes of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in paragraph I above in respect of such expenditures shall
be applied to the amount of such increase, and a corresponding amount will be


﻿16
allocated by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in paragraph I above, if the
estimate of local expenditures under any Category shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is for rehabilitation of the coastal area and cyclone protection
in the territories of the Borrower, and consists of:
Part A
Reconstruction and improvement of water transport facilities by:
(i)         repair of 14 damaged port terminals in existing locations:
3 in Barisal District (Najirpur, Ghoserhat, and Tazumuddin);
2 in Noakhali District (Chitalkhali and Hatya);
7 in Chittagong District (Satalkhal, Kumira, Guptachar, Cox's
Bazar, Sattaruddin, Chhunua, and Bholaghat); and
2 in Patuakhali District (Rangabali and Kkepupara).
(ii)        construction of 10 new inland water transport port terminals,
I each at: Manpura, Char Madras, and Char Khukri Mukri in
Barisal District; Tamaruddin, Jahazmara and Char Jabbar in
Noakhali District; and Char Montaz, Char Kajal, Galachipa and
Bara Baisdia in Patuakhali District.
(iii)       procurement of hydrographic survey equipment for surveying
and charting routes in the coastal areas.
(iv)        procurement of aids to navigation equipment.
(v)         procurement of operational vessels and road transport vehicles,
for use including survey, buoy laying, marking of channels; tugs
for general purposes, including towage of pontoons; and radio
communications equipment for existing vessels.
(vi)        provision of technical assistance for the implementation of this
Part of the Project.


﻿18
Part B
Establishment of improved telecommunications by providing 22 base stations
for fixed and mobile public call offices, 40 mobile stations and 100 public call
offices, 14 x 24 channel VHF links between base stations and communication
centers, and a 300 channel microwave link from Chittagong to Cox's Bazar.
Part C
Construction of about 260 multipurpose buildings on primary or secondary
school sites at centers of rural population to serve both as schools and cyclone
shelters.
Part D
Reconstruction and improvement of the primary road network by:
(i)        road embankment improvement, 10 foot carriageway brick
surfacing and repair of structures on the road between Bhola
Town and Char Madras on Bhola Island, with links to the Inland
Water Transport Authority terminals at Daulatkhan and
Tejimuddin (70 miles).
(ii)       bridges and ferries to open the existing brick surfaced road
between Barisal and Patuakhali (25 miles).
(iii)      road embankment improvement, 10 foot carriageway brick
surfacing and repair of structures on the road on the Water and
Power Boards' coastal embankment between Laxmipur and
Ramgati. with links to the Inland Water Transport Authority
terminals at Chitalkhali and Ramgati (40 miles).
(iv)       necessary surveys for the above roads and 2 other roads in
Noakhali District for which construction works are not included
in this Project; the 47 mile section of road from Hatya to
Jahajmara, with links to Kasherhat-Sagaria and Changar Bazar;
and the 23 mile section of road from Sonapur to Munshirhat,
with links to Char Jubilee.
Part E
Improvement of about 670 miles of earth feeder roads to establish a
carriageway about 12 ft wide linking terminals constructed under Part A of the


﻿19
Project and cyclone shelters constructed under Part C of the Project, respectively,
to the primary road network, and related works.
Part F
Reconstruction and improvement of the coastal fishing industry by providing
about: 1,300 wooden-hulled fishing boats, 204 marine engines to power fishing
boats, 335,000 lbs of nylon twine and 167,500 synthetic floats for the manufacture
of fishing nets; 1,300 life buoys; 1 work boat; and 2 insulated trucks.
Part G
Improvement of the meteorological early warning system.
Part H
Provision of consultants' services, vehicles and imported equipment to assist
in the management and supervision of Parts A to G of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    (a)   Equipment and imported materials required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972.
(b)   Other materials and civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis referred
to in sub-paragraph (a) hereof save that advertisements of invitations to bid may
be limited to newspapers of general circulation in the territories of the Borrower.
2.    (a)   With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment and/or
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i)         Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(ii)        After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons
for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(iii)       The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.


﻿21
(iv)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
(b)   With respect to any other contract for civil works, equipment and/or
materials the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in any Category of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement,
bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of such
goods;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (Chittagong) price of such goods; and
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.


