Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12535-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CRAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12535 CD
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a resiricted distribution and may be used by mipients only in the perfomance of
their officihI duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesed without Worid Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 588.7
CFAF I million = US$1,698.66
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP          Agence dExecution de Travaux d'lnteret Public
(Public Works Executing Agency)
ATETIP          Agence Tchadienne dEx6cution de Travaux d'lntdret Public
(Chadian Public Works Executing Agency)
DMP             Direction des Marchds Publics
FAC             Fonds dAide et de Cooperation
FED             Fond Europden de Developpement
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GNP             Gross National Product
GOC             Govermment of Chad
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IRR             Internal Rate of Return
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MOFC            Ministry of Finance and Computerization
MON             Municipality of N'Djamena
MPC             Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperaton
(Ministiy of Plan and Cooperation)
ONAMO           Office National de Main d'Oeuvre
(National Labor Office)
OPEC            Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PADS            Programme d'Action de Ddveloppement Social
(Social Development Action Program)
PCR             Project Completion Report
PFP             Policy Framework Paper
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PTI             Program of Targeted Intervention
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
TOR             Terms of Reference
TSP             Transport Sector Project
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
WFP             World Food Program
FISrAL YEAR
January I to December 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mis-on consisting of Ms. Grace Yabrudy (Task Manager, Urban Financial
Analyst), Mr. Laslie Pean (Projects Officer) and Mr. Abdelghani Inal (Highway Engineer), who visited Chad in November, 1993 and
the assistance of Mrs. JoAmne Nickerson (Program Assistant), Ms. Ines Fraile-Ordonez (Young Professional), and Mr. Nicolas
Notebaert (Projects Assisant). The Lead Advisor is Mr. Banard AbeiLl, and the Peer Reviewers are Messrs. Patrick Canel and
Mark Woodward. Mr. Peter Watson is the managig Division Chief and Ms. Katherine Marll is the managing Director for the
operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BULDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIJ1                  Y ................................ . . . . .
SECTION I - COUNTRY AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND                                       .1
A. Background and Recent Economic Performance .....................................1...l
B. Sector Background ...................................................4............... 4
C. IDA!s Previous Role and Lessons Learned ......................6..............6
D. Justification for IDA Involvement ..................................7... ........... .......7
SECTION II - THE PROJECT .8
A. Project Objectives .........8
B. Project Descriptin                                  .9
C. Status of Project Preparation .14
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan .15
E. Project Implementation.18
F. Procurement .20
G. Disbursements .23
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporfing .....................................................  24
I. Supervision Plan ...................................................... 24
J. Enviromental Ima   .....................................................             25
K. Impact on Unemployment .....................................................         26
L. Economic Analysis .....................................................              26
M. Benefits and Risks .....................................................             27
SECTION III - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................28
Tables in the Main Tet
1. Local and Foreign Iflation Rates
2. Project Cost Summary
3. Financing Plan
4. Procurement
5. Disbursements
6. Key Indicators
This dcument has a restricted distbution and may be used by  cipients only in thb  pefoc     ofther
officW dutes Its contens my not othewise be disclosed wihout Wodd Bank|



ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Institutional Setup
Annex 2 - Terms of Refirence for Community Participation Study
Annex 3 - Detailed Project Cost Tables
Annex 4 - ATETIP Statutes
Annex 5 - Framework Agreement (Covention) betwee GOC and ATETIP
Annex 6 - ATErIP By-Laws
Annex 7 - Pilot Project Summaries
Annex 8 - Excerpt from the Manual of Procedurs
Annex 9 - Summary of Consulting Services
Annex 10 - Implementation Schedule
Annex 11 - Supervision Schedule
lThe Manual of Procedures (Manuel de Phwdures) is available as a sef-contained doumt



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PUBLIC WO  AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad
Beneficiary:        Ministy of Plan and Coopeation
Credit Amount:      SDR 12.4 million (US$17.4 million)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:        Governmnt of Chad (US$1.0 million)
Other donors (US$2.0 million)
Project Objectie:   The project objectives are: (a) to build local capacity (through
private sector development and public sector proument refbrm); (b)
to assist the Govemment in nuinming infastructure assets; (c) to
participate mi reducing current unemloyment by creatig temporary
jobs in the public works and construction sector; and (d) to improve
public procurement and contract manaent pracces. The
development objectives are: (a) to demonstrate the feasibility of
labor-intsive construction practices and projects; (b) to alleviate
poverty. While concenrating on the rehabilitation and/or mainutenance
of existng infiastructure, the proect will have a positive impact on
urban employment opportunities and genrte additional income to
low skldled manpower in the urban area; (c) to test the procedures that
will enable the public sector to commission such projects to the
nrivate sector and in particular the d&legation de maftrise d'ouvrage
(delegatd contact maagmet); and (d) to inprove, through the
execution of the works financed by the project, the individual sklLls of
the workers who will be employed and the corporate competiveness
of the firms that will carry out works, so as to develop their capacity
to respond to increased opportuities for sustained activity after
project completion.
Project Desuiption:  The project components are: (a) an investment component aimed at
protecting the existing infrastruchtre from furdier decay and
developing additional urgently needed social infrastructure. The
program of labor-intensive subprojects consists of two types of
operations: (i) a public works program to rehabilitate and maitain
public facilities and infastructure in urban areas (notably
rehabilitation of draiage systems and urban infiastrucure such as
schools, health centers, civic centers, and other public fcilities); and
(O) a pubhic services program to restore degraded urban areas; (b) a



ii
capacity building component providing taining and technical
support for small- and medium-siz  enterprises and the beneficiaries
(local govenments and ministies) including: (i) a package of
tainig services related to work organiation, maagement, and
technical skills training, to be offered on a voluntary basis to local
contactors who will be awarded contracts under component (a), and
a training program for local engineering tirms and individual
consultants on the preparation of feasibility studies, technical project
proposals and works supervision for component (a); and (ii) a training
program for poteta benficiaries of subprojects of component (a),
to help them pre-evaluate the feasibility and soundness of such
subprojects; (c) a component aimed at increasing community
participation in subproject identification and urban infiastrucure
maintace; (d) a cmponent of services aimed at project
monitoring; and (e) a procurement reform implementation
component aimed at improving the transparency and efficiency of the
procurent process by identing the current bottlenecks and
providing consutng services for the revision of the procurement code.
Benefits:           The project will have several direct benefits: (a) high economic rate of
rern  on rehabiliation operations; (b) employment creation, (c)
subprojects concened with garbage collectior, -r4 drainage will have
a positive impact on the environment, (d) irng-term benefits of
enhancing the efficiency of the public sector (it could have a spill-over
effect on other IDA projects - such as education and health - by
increasing the capacity and efficiency of the constuction sector); and
(e) enhanced sustainability of future urban municipal projects. Most
importny, the project will help reduce a sigmficant backlog of
economic and social infrasucture and maintance in Chad
(prncipally N'Djamena, Moundou and Sahr). The smooth operation
of the Agency will show a workable alternative to taitional
pro surment procedures This demonstation effect, coupled with the
study of government contracts, will contribute to improving the
public prcument system in general. The project will generate
incomes for many categories of the work force in the building and
construction trades, thereby creatng a multiplier effect on the local
economy.
Risks:              The first major risk is that the Agency may misuse its considerable
idependence. The risk will be reduced by the selection of a qualified
General Director, who will have to be at all times acceptable to IDA.
In addition, the proposed intensity of supervision will closely monitor
the implementation of the Mnual of Procedures and frequent enernal
audis will provide sufficient opporunity to deal with inadequate
performance on the part of the Agency or any Government
interfrence. The second major nsk is tha local contractors and
consulting firms may lack the capacity required to implement the
project on time. This risk wil be greatly reduced by implementing the
project over four years to take into account the absorptive capacity of



the sector. In additon, technical assistance and trainig components
mcluded m the project are expected to increase the capacity of local
contactors and consuling firms. The third major risk is that the
volume of employnt created by the project may fall short of
expectations or be less than significant when compared to the preset
level of urban unemployment. To reduce this risk, a strowg emphasis
on labor-intensive technologies will be mintained throughout proect
implemetion.
Pro le  Cos SMMar (ad of taxes and dnti
US$ Mmin
Component                          LoCal      Foreign                    Total
Public Works                        4.80         7.20        12.00        60%
TA-Conractors                       1.76         0.95         2.70         35%
Training-Beneficiares               0.14         0.14         0.28         50%
Communily Partiipation              0.20         0.05         0.25        20%
Monoring                            0.19         0.29         0.48         60%
Proument Reform & Impl.             0.17         0.51         0.68        75%
Incremental Operating Expenses      1.01         0.00         1.01         0%
Office Insallation & Equipment      0.05         0.37         0.42         88%
Total Base Costs                    8.32         9.50        17.82         53%
Price Contingencies                 0.23         0.13         0.37         36%
Refinancig PPF                      0.08         0.13         0.21         62%
Totl Project Costs                  8.63         9.76        18.39         53%
Parallel-Financed Works             0.80         1.20         2.00         60%
iTota Program Costs                 9.43         10.96       20.39         54%
Figues may not add up duo to rounding
rmnancing Plan
(US$ milion)
Total  % Proj. Cost
IDA                      17.39    85%
GovernUmen                1.00     5%/o
Otber donors              2.00    10%
Total cost               20.39



iv
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)    __-
Per period Cumulative
FY95
1st semester                      1.7         1.7
2nd semester                      2.4         4.0
FY96
1st semester                     2.0         6.0
2nd semester                      2.1         8.1
FY97
1st semester                     2.2        10.2
2nd semester                      2.2        12.4
FY98
lst semester                     2.2        14.6
2nd semester                      1.5        16.1
FY99
1st semester                      1.3       17.4
Poverty Category: PTI The project's poverty reduction measures include an
emphasis on iabor-intensive constuction practices,
n order to generate employment; training for local
onstution firms to build their capacity to respond
to calls for bids and to better manage their
businesses; and a community participation
component to teach local groups the importance of
maitaining the improved conditions of their
drainage canals and other imfastture provided
under the project



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECTION I - COUNTRY AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Background and Recent Economic Performance
1.1     Background. Chad is a vast county, the fifh largest m Afnica, and groups togethe a
large number of extraordinarily diverse ethnic groups. With 6.2 million inhabitants and a per
capita GNP estimated at US$220 in 1992, Chad is one of the poorest, least-developed countries in
the world. Economic development efforts have been characterized by successive promising starts
stymied by serious inteal and exteal blows. Recurring political instability and domestic strife,
which erupted into civil war from 1979 to 1983, have been and remain the most intractable
constrits to development. Chad has also been severely affected by drought. Despite a major
post-war reconstruction effort, Chad's physical i tcture, human resources, and  sttutional
and adminstrative capacity to support develolnment are today still at the level where most other
low income sub-Saharan African countries were in the 1960s. Chad ranks 150th out of 160
countries on UNDP's 1992 Human Development Index.
1.2     Chad presents a major development challenge. It juxtaposes a highly uncertain political
siation, a prospect of renewed breakdown of order, extreme poverty, and reasonable growth
prospects. Despite all its handicaps, Chad has a number of positive elements to build upon and
good intrinsic grwth potetial. Compared to other Sahelian counties, Chad is relatively well
endowed with natural resources for agricultural production, especiaUy in the south where much of
the population is concentrated. Food production is generally sufficient to meet domsic demand,
and agricultre - particularly livestock and cotton production - are key sources of future growth.
The private sector could play a dynanic role, beyond the informal and rural production circuit, as
a drving force in the fomtal economy. Exploitation of proven oil reserves for domestic
consumption could add impetus to economic growth in the medium term, by improving the
reliability of supply and reducing the cost of electricity and diesel fuel - key production imputs.
Oil exploration in the south holds the promise of substantial reserves which could be exported.
This could attract significant private investment and dramatically transform Chad's long-term
economic prospects. Chad's turbulent history has also left positive elements: the civil service is
modest in size; the economy is relatively unrgulated; the populaion has showm great self-reliance;
and alternatives to public provision of services have developed.
1.3     Economic Structure. Chad's economy is based on agriculture, which generates 35-40%
of GDP and provides a livelihood for more than 80% of the population. Subsistence production of
food crops by smallholders is the principal economic activity, but output flucuates widely,
depending upon rainfall. Livestock and cottn constitute the most important sources of cash
income for the rural popuation and for export earnings (75%). The small industial sector, which
contributes about 20% to value added, is dominated by the paastat  COTONTCHAD, which
processes and exports cotton. The rest of the sector consists of several medium-scale enterprises



2
and a large number of micro-enterprises which produce consumer goods for the domestic market.
The sr,-:-ec sector makes up the remaining 4045% of GDP and includes a large trading sector.
1.4     Recent Economic Developments. During the post-war period 1984-1990, Chad made
substantial jr.ogress in rehabilitating its economy and promoting growth despite internal and
extemal shocis. By 1987, Chad's economy was more or less restored to its pre-war level, and
economic conditions continued to improve during the 1987-90 adjustment period. The adjustment
program focused on improving public resource management and efficiency in the cotton sector, and
also included policv reforms in transportation, livestock and trade. In 1988 and 1989, most of the
macro-economic objectives outlined in the first two Policy Framework Papers (PFP) were attained.
Important progress was made in reviving key sectors of the economy. Together the adjustment
program and the investment program that emnphasized agriculture and transportation reversed some
of the negative impacts on the income and living conditions of the population caused by the
succession of civil war, drought and the cotton crisis. Moreover, the program had a positive
impact on growth performance, particularly in the cotton sector. Real GDP growth averaged 4.5%
per year and inflation was low. Public investnent, which was totally externally financed, doubled
to nearly 10% of GDP in 1990; official development assistance flows tripled. With the recovery in
cotton export revenues, the current account deficit was reduced to 27% of GDP in 1990. The
gross domestic savings rate, perennially negative, improved somewhat to -12% of GDP in 1990.
1.5     With the abrupt change in political regime in 1990, the adjustment program went off-
track and the fiscal situation deteriorated; the third-year PFP targets (1990-92) for revenues,
current expenditures, and the current budget deficit were all missed by significant margins.
Expenditure overruns since 1990 have been due to pressures from military expenditures and the
civilian wage bill: while revenues declined (particularly for customs). In late 1991, the Government
presented an informal outline of a stabilization program, including budgetary targets and related
policy measures. However, few concrete actions were taken until mid-1992. At that time, the
Covennnent, under the leadership of a new prime minister, took decisive steps to stabilize the wage
bill, including a temporary reduction of nominal wages. The budget deficit burgeoned in 1991 (7%
of GDP), although this was mitigated somewhat by the high level of budget support from external
donors. In 1992, this external support largely dried up (dropping by half). The current deficit fell
to US$65.7 million (4.7% of GDP) due primarily to actions on the wage bill and lack of liquidity
(65% of the deficit was covered by new arrears). The most difficult economic issue facing the
transition government, appointed by the National Conference in April 1993, is how to deal with
this fimancial crisis, in particular how to pay civil servants and arrears to domestic suppliers who
are on the verge of bankruptcy. Paradoxically, real economic growth for 1991 and 1992 averaged
8% as favorable weather conditions led to strong growth in output of food crops and cotton.
However, the economic picture is less favorable than these figures indicate. Though difficult to
measure, a strong contraction in monetized, economic activity seems to be occurring with the
deepeing of the budget cnsis, the decline of the cotton sector, and a substantial drop in
investment.
1.6     Devaluation. The Govermnent of the Republic of Chad, after close consultations with
the member countries of the CFA zone, decided to change the fixed parity of the CFA franc from
50 to 100 CFAF per French franc with effect from January 12, 1994. The Government has
decided to use the opportunities created by this change in the parity to launch a new economic and



3
social program. The aims of this program are to: (i) re-establish order in public finance through
elimination of payments arrears, rcsumption of regular salary payments and restoration of tax
collection systems. iii) correct macroeconomic imbalances, notably on the fiscal accounts, through
improvcd revenue collection and reduced expenditures associated with military demobilization and
through monetary restraint; (iii) improve economic incentives for the key agricultural sector,
especially cotton and livc;tock: (iv) restoration of public interest and an environment conducive to
private investment, which, together with the agricultural incentives, should re-start growth; and (v)
accompany thesc adjustmcnt measurcs with cxpanded poverty alleviation and human resource
devclopment programs.
1.7    The historic decision to adjust the parity of the CFA franc was a major step in this agenda.
In order to guarantee the success of the devaluation, the Government of Chad has fornulated a set
of measures to accompanv the parity change. These measures fall into three types: (a)
macroeconomic policies designed to reduce government absorbtion, while restoring the
government's payments position. This includes, significantly, resumption of wage and salary
payments, but limiting xvage increases; (b) initial structural policies, in part-cular those designed to
pass on the benefits oi the devaluation to rural producers; and (c) specific actions to preserve social
sector expenditures and to dampen price increases on essential consumption items to protect
vulnerable groups. The Economic Recovery Credit (P-6289-CD) approved by the Board on March
31, 1994 will provide part of the financial support needed by Govermnment as a follow-up to the
recent parity change of the CFA franc.
1.8     Since Chad is fundamentally a rural economy, the parity change itself and the
accompanying measures adopted by the government are a clear attempt to improve the welfare of
the rural population. The price of cotton has already been raised, and the market prices of
livestock and other agricultural products can be expected to reflect the new exchange rate as its
impact feeds through. Nevertheless, there are a number of vulnerable groups, primanily in urban
areas, and various mcasures have been put in place to protect this group. The essential strategy is
to limit the immediate price rise of a range of basic commodities. However, it is recognized by the
Government that this also brings benefits to middle and upper-income groups, so by the end of
1994 these price support prograr is will be replaced by a more targeted social safety net.
1.9     The measures to help the poorer segments of the population include fte following:
(a)  Fiscal measures to limit the price increases for a range of key commodities, as
noted earlier, including cereals, rice, flour, oilseeds, soap, sugar, water, kerosene
and basic drugs, as well as steps to ensure the availability of such drugs.
Measures include some subsidies, reduced taxes, release of food stocks, and
intervention on the cereals markets; and
(b)  Increased budget provision in real terms for basic health and education.
1.10  In addition to these measures, the Government will also accelerate and increase the
investment operations aimed at creating employmen  It is in this context that the proposed
project's implementation, with its emphasis on labor-intensive public works, is a vital part of
Government's investment program. Supplementary financing is also under consideration for the



4
transport program to finance rural roads and for the social action development project (PADS, Cr.
2156-CD), since these activities are all labor-intensive.
B. Sector Background
1.11    Population and Urbanizaffon. Although Chad's urban populatiot. in 1992 accounted for
only 24% of its total population, past and projected rates of urban growth are among the highest in
the Sahel. According to available demographic infbrnation, the annual rate of growth of the urban
population averaged 4% between 1968 and 1989. About 50% of this growth is due to nigration
which is accelerated not only by penrdic droughts but also by civil strife and continuing insecurity
in rurl areas. N'Djamena, the capital and sole major city, grew at an average rate exceeding 6%
for the 1964-1989 period, with an average of 12% to 15% between 1984 and 1989, and is
presently esfimated to have a population of at least 500,000 inbabitants. Besides N'Djamena, there
are three important secondary centers: Moundou (100,000), Sahr (80,000) and Abeche (53,000)
with a population growth rate averaging 3% to 5% per year. Other urban centers are Doba, Kilo,
Pala, Bongor, and Ati with a population of 20,000 to 37,000 each. It is expected that Chad's
population, curreny estimated at 5.8 million, will reach 8.6 million by 2010, at which time the
urban population will grow from the current 1 million to 2.9 million. The rate of urbanization
accompanying that population growth is expected to increase to 34%/O, making Chad's urban
population one of the highest in the Sahel.
1.12    Urban Tabor Market, Employment and Income.  The available data on urban
employment s'iggests that the modern sector employs only a small fraction of the economically
active urban population, with the remainder employed in informal sector activities and seasonal
agricultural work. Two-thirds of GDP originate from the informal sector. Generally for the
country as a whole, the active labor force is esiumated at 2 million with 85% employed in the
primary sector, 11% in the secoadary sector and 4% for the tertiary sector. In 1987, the formal
sector employed 42,000 persons divided between 22,000 in the public sector and 20,000 in the
pfivate sector. In NDjanmna, according to a 1988 household survey, there was an activity ratio of
26.5% for a population estimated at 520,000 persons. Eighty-five percent were working in the
tertiary sector, 11.6% in the secondary sector and 2.7% in the prinary sector. The informal sector
employs more than 50% of the employed as 56% of the people surveyed declared themselves as
idependent workers. The findings are similar for Moundou and Sahr wiere the formal sector
employs only 10% and 20% respectively of the employed.
1.13    Based on the national accounts, in 1991 the average annual income per capita ranged
from CFAF 57,000 to CFAF 68,000 (between $190 and $226 with an exchange rate of US$1
equal to CFAF 300), depending on whether GDP or GNP data are used. For a household of five,
this translates into a monthly income between CFAF 26,000 and CFAF 31,000. In the public
sector, data for 1991 indicates that the average monthly income for public servants was CFAF
65,000 while in the private sector it was esimated at CFAF 58,000. However, according to the
data of the ONAMO (National Labor Office), 73% of those employed in the private formal sector
were eaning less that CFAF 40,000 per month. Wages in the infonnal sector are substantially
less-around 20,000 CFAF per month.



5
1.14    Urban Sector. The lack of infstrcre is particularly visible in the urban sector. The
absence of drainage and sanitation adversely affects livmg conditions, especially for the majority of
the population (90%) living in the traditonal dwellings constructed mainly of dirt, straw, sand and
clay. In N'Djamena, there are only 37 kan of paved roads for an urban road network of 1200 km
Ninety-five percent of the storm water dramage canals are made simply of earthworks, which limits
movements of goods and people around the city duaring the rainy season from June to October when
most unpaved roads are transfonned into quagmires. Drainage canals, in dirt or cement, are
generally filled with sand brought by the rain. The situation is worse for the new neighborhoods
that have been created in the west and toward the north and the east of the city. There are no storm
water drainage canals and no sanitary sewage network in these neighborhoods. Anarchic
settlements are the norm in the neighborhoods of Demb6, NDjari, Am Koundjar, Milezi, etc.
Even around some of the main thoroughfares, such as Ave. Bokassa, Ave. Nimeiry, and Ave.
Gaourand, conditions have deteriorated because of lack of draiage canals. As a result of these
extremely unsanitary conditions, infant mortality reportedly exceeds 200 per 1000.
1.15    Chad is ill-equipped financially and institutionally to manage urban growth and provide
the necessary public services. The worsening public finance situation is such that the country
cannot provide fully for operations and maintenance of past investments. Local taxes on regitered
property, land sales, and water vendors are not sufficient to furnish the Municipality and the
Minist6re de l'Amnagement du Territoire, de l'Urbanisme, de lHabitat (MINATUH) which bears
major responsibiLity for urban development, with the financial powers to provide services and
effectively regulate urban growth. The same applies for the Ministry of Public Works. N'Djamena
has 11 public markets but some of the most important among them like Diguel, Cholera and
Dembe are flooded several months dunng the rainy season. In the neighborhoods around these
-arkets, there is no health and education infrastructue, no paved roads, no sidewalks, no drainage
canals.
1.16    The Public Works and Constructfon Industry. There is a private sector in Chad that has
the capacity to perform and execute a whole range of construction activities in the area of public
works, such as road repair, periodic maintenance of streets with gravel and sand, desanding, filling
potholes, construction of sewage and drainage canals, sidewalks, culverts and the like. According
to a survey done by the Ministry of Commerce and ndustry, there were 55 conractig finms in the
formal sector in Chad divided among three groups. The first category includes five large
intemational firms. The second category involves 14 national enterprises managed by expatriate.
The third category icludes 36 national firms managed by Chadians. To these three groups must be
added a fourth category which includes the t&cherons" (tradesmen) of the informal sector that
number several hundred.   During the execution  of the ongoing  Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investnent Project (TSAIP-Cr. 2007-CD), another survey was done in which 200
operators were identfied just for N'Djamena. Many of the formal sector entrepreneurs have
demonstrated their capacity to access the public works market that has been fluctuating aromund
CFAF 15 billion for the past three years. The situaion is quite different for the smal entrepreneur.
First, he is afficted by a 'ministrative and management problems in terms of bid presentation, work
site planning and weekly or monty progress reports. Second, he is handicapped by technical
deficiencies in evaluating output and controlling works, and third, he is hampered by financial and
accountig shortcomings in terms of the determination of price estimates, stock nmagement,
purchasing and cash flow maagement. While these problems might be overconme under normal



6
contracting circumstances, they are cotmpounded and rendered insurmountable by Goverment
payment delays, which contribute to maintning the small  reneur in a precarious situation.
C. IDA's Previous Role and Lessons Leared
1.17    Lessons Learnedfrom the Senegal AGET7P. A well-selected publi works and services
program using labor intensive techniques is one of the most efficient ways to provide employment
and subsistence to unskilled workers and, at the same time, to achieve durable economic benefits.
To iuplement such a program in Senegal, a non-governmental organization (AGETIP) was set up
and has proved to be an extmely efficient project maagement unit. From March 1990 to
September 1993, AGETIP completed 441 sub-projects for the tot cost of CFAF 9,750,314,000.
These 441 sub-projects were executed by 220 small conactors. During that period, AGETIP pre-
qualified 1030 contractors and registered 292 consulting engineers, the majority of w! i were
local. AGETIP executed sub-projects in all 10 regions of Senegal. Thirty-thre percent of sub-
projects were executed in Dakar, 16% in Saint Louis, 15% in Thi6s, 12% in Ziguinchor, with tbe
rest distributed among the other regions. The execution of the sub-projects led to the creaton of
2.2 million n:-days of temporary works, i.e. 75,614 persons were employed in jobs of an averae
duration of 29 days. AGETIP has also led to the cation of pennanent jobs. A survey of 50 of
the 220 small contractors indicates that they have hired on a permanent basis an aveae of 1.3
workers for a toWal of approximately 285 permanent jobs. Total wages distributed during the
execution of the 441 sub-projects represent CFAF 2,918,054,000 or an average of CFAF 38,591
per job. The wage bill represents 26.5% of total inestmet costs. Considering the Senegalese per
capita income of CFAF 90,000 this salary represents over one-third of the income per capita for a
month of work. The proportion of wages in the total costs of sub-projects readhed a hgher level
than originally expected. Tlis propo.tion varied from 22% for road works to 28% for building
rehabilitation, and over 30% for street sand removal and drainage canal cleanng. Finally with an
overhead cost of less than 5%, AGETIP has proved very efficiet in managin small contacts
(about 250 per year, half for works, half for cosultng services) and has been able to pay
contactors and consultants within a week.
1.18    Populafton and Human Resources Sector. Alhugh not in this sector, the Social
Action Development Project (PADS, Cr. 2156-CD) is worth highbihting because two of its
components are related to the proposed project. The two cmponent are the followig.
(a)    Infirtruche. This component aims to: i) rehabilitate the drainage system in two
flood-prone areas where a high percentage of low-income families live; and ii)
improve public hygiene through increased community participation; and
(b)    Assistance to micro-enterprises. This component ains at providmg: i) credit
assistance and management support for small and micro-enterprises; and ii)
technical assistance talored to needs of mncro-entrpnr.
1.19    The infrastructure component of tius Project has experienced many difficulties:
although the forecasted investment has been fully expend, less than 60% of the physical
infrastructure has been executed. The component has been plagued by difficulties in the desig of
the civil works to be executed, lack of adequate supervison and procemet delays. In conuast,



7
the component aimed at providig credit and technical assistance to small and micro-teprises
has been a success.
1.20    It is with this mixed experience in mind, and after acknowledging the poor perfoamce
of the classical urban infiastructue nagement system in the PADS Project, that an AGEIIP-
style approach was deemed appropriate by Government This proposed project addresses the
weaknesses in the infastructure component of the PADS Project while building on the positive
aspects of continuing to provide technical assistance to small and micro-enterprises and
encouraging community participation in project maintenance.
D. Justification for IDA Involvement
1.21    A full Country Assistance Strategy is under preparation and will be submitted to the
Executive Directors with the next proposed adjustment credit, in the first half of FY93. The last
Country Assistance Strategy was discussed by the Executive Diectors on May 25, 1993. IDA's
current assistance stategy supports the objectives of alleviating poverty and improving the
prospects for long-term growth by: (i) increasing the accessibility and quality of basic social
services; (ii) increasing incomes through productivity increases and improved sevices (including
tansportation) to the agricultural sector where the najority of the population live and work; (iii)
improving basic infiastructure which serves to increase compettveess and improve welfare; (iv)
promoting employment generation and entrepreneurship by encouraging the provision of sevices
by the private sector; (v) supporting the reallocation of public expenditures towards development
purposes; and (vi) promotng a coherent sategy for tapping the potential of the energy sector.
1.22 The assistance strategy is flexible and designed to build on Chad's positive attributes, to
continue the policy dialogue and to adjust rapidly to improving country conditions. Under the
current circumstances, IDA is implemenating a core pron of support to alleviate poverty through
activities that address basic poverty issues, to place minimal demands on Goverment
administration and finances, to make maximum use of non-Government capabilities and to improve
the prospects for long-term growth. It emphasiues operations that can succeed now and yield
benefits for the next generation: health, educaton, agriculture, infrastructure, and energy. IDA is
working with Government towards a redefimition of its role combined with a major effort to rebuild
the capacity of private business, community and voluntary organizations.
1.23    Poverty alleviation is the underlying principle and guiding objective of I)A's assistance
in Chad. This project fulfills two of the five objectives of our assistance proLm mentoned
above: (a) improving welfire and the prospects for longterm growth by irasn accessibilW to
and the quality of basic social services; and (b) promoting employment generation and
entepreneurship by encourging the provision of services by the private sector. This proect will
support the Government's desire to build and maitai basic infrastructre while placig minimal
demands on the central governmnxt admistration and finances. While beig consistent with the
country assistnce straegy, the proposed public works and capacity building project would provide
Government with tangble results while increasmg the capacity of both the public and private
sectors. The project would be the ideal transition from the urgent need for mantean  and
building basic ifrastructure to a more institutionally focused urban project.



8
SECTION II - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1     The project objectives are:
(a)   to build local capacity (through pnvate sector development and public sector
procurment reform);
(b)   to assist the Government in maintaining infiastructure assets;
(c)   to participate in reducing current unemployment by creating temporary jobs in the
public works and construction sector; and
(d)   to improve the public procurem t and cntact management practices.
2.2     The development objectives are:
(a)   to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive construction practices and
projects;
(b)   to alleviate poverty. While concentating on the rehabiltation and/or maitenance
of existing infastucture, he project will have a positive impact on urban
employment opportmities and generate additional income to low skilled manpower
in urban areas;
(c)   to test the procedures that will enable the public sector to commission such
projects to the private sector, and in particular the delegaffon de maltnse
d'ouvrage (delegated contract m ganamt); and
(d)   to improve, through the execution of the works financed by the project, the
individual skills of the workers who will be employed and the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carfy out works, so as to develop their
capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained activity after project
completion.
2.3     By introducing efficient contract management practices for small works and services and
developing private contactors and consulaints, the project will have a significant capacity building
impact on the public and private sectors.
2.4     Associated objectives include:
(a)    avoiding the need to increase the civil service;
(b)    combining the benefits of implementation methodologies that feature low cost,
high visibility and impact;
(c)    supporting other development programs by efficiently executing (but not
financing) their civil works components;



9
-(d) using transparent, expeditious, and flexible procedures for subproject proposals,
appraisals, procurement and disbursements; and
(e)    providing sustainable technical and managerial assistance to contractors.
2.5      Using the concept of dilMgation de maltise d'ouvrage, municipalities will be able to
engage in the construction or restoration of basic infrstructure as a central element of urban
renewal. Such capital investments would create primary multiplier effects associated with the
construction or restoration phase, having a substanial impact on the local economy. Furthermore,
the refurbishing of obsolete infastructure would have secondary multiplier effects on employmet
and income associated with the ongoing use of the restored or newly built facility.
2.6      After considering the barriers that small contactors face in terms of access to public
contracts, it was deemed necessary to establish a special agency with pnvate legal status to
implement the project. To this end, an organization called the Agence Tchadienne d'Executfon des
Travaux d'Intert Public (ATETIP) was created on January 5, 1994 and is based on the same
model already in place in Senegal, Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Benin, Mauritania and The Gambia.
ATETIP's structure is described in detil in Annex 1.
2.7     Intended Beneficiaries. The projects intended beneficianes fall into four groups. First,
there is the populafion at large benefitig from better drainage, sanitation, and roads. In particular,
this will benefit the poorest neighborhoods, since project selection criteria give priority to poorest
areas. Second, there are the small eerpises and tdcherons from the informal sector who are
mdsty in the lowest ranks in terms of income distribution. The project will provide them with
wvork and contibute to helping them achieve the transition from the informal to the fornal sector.
A third group of beneficianes consists of the three major municipalities (N'Djamena, Moundou,
Sahr) that will potentialy benefit from investments under the project. Finally, the project benefits
a fourth group, the maftres d'oeuwre (arcbitects, engineers, and consulting firms), that will be
engaged in the preparation of bidding documents and supevision of the works.
B. Project Description
2.8     The five project componens are:
(a)    an investment component aimed at protecting the existing infastructure from
further decay and developing additional urgently needed social infastructure. The
program of labor-intensive subprojects indicates two types of operations:
(i)    a public works program of public facility and infiastrctu  rehabilitation
and maiteance in urban areas (notably rehabiltaon of drmnage
systems and urban infrastrcture, such as schools, health centers, civic
centers, and other public facilities); and
(ii)    a public services program to restore degraded urban areas.
(b)    a capacity building component providing traimng and technical support for
small- and medium-sized enterprises and the beneficiaries (local governme   and
ministries) including:



10
(i)    a package of trainig services related to work organization, management,
and technical skils trainin, to be offered on a voluntay basis to local
contractos who will be awarded contracts under component (a); and a
trainmg program for local engineerng finns and individual consultants on
the preparation of feasibility studies, technical project proposals and
works supervision for component (a); and
(ii)    a training progran for potential beneficiaries of subprojects of component
(a), to help them pre-evaluate the feasibility and soundness of such
subprojects;
(c)    a componen aimed at increasing community participation in: (i) subproject
identification; and (ii) urban infiastrucure mainteance;
(d)    a component of services aimed at project monitoring; and
(e)    a procn-ement reform and implementation component aimed at improving the
trsparey and efficiency of the procuremnit process by identifing the current
bottlenecks and providing consulting services for the revision of the procurement
code.
a) Investment Component (US$12.0 million)
2.9     Public Works Program. This program will undertake the rehabilitation and maintenance
of public infitructure in urban areas (principaUy in N'Djamena for the first year) especially in the
field of construction and public works, i.e., drainage network reconstruction, public building
rehabilitation road maitenance, and urban renewal. These activities will be carried out under
labor-intensive schemes by local contractors in order to create employment. This project
cmponen will represent approximately 70% of the Agencys activities in terms of the total
investment component.
2.10    The activies wi include the following:
(a)    construction, rebabilitaton, and maintenance of street and road drainage;
(b)    construction, rpairs, rehabilitation, and maintenance of steet and road pavement
and shoulders;
(c)    construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of public infrastructure, such as
classrooms and health facilties;
(d)    water and soil conservation works; and
(e)    construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of recreation areas and tree planting
activities.
2.11    Public Services Program. This program wifl undertake, on a temporary basis, some
public services such as primary waste collection, or the contacting out, for a specific period, of the



11
maintenance activities mentioned above. The objective o'this program is to demonstrate the cost-
efficiency and the sustinability of labor-intensive schemes, which will lead to creating sustained
employment. This project component will represent a maximum of 30% of the Agency's activities
in terms of the total investment component.
2.12    The activities are most likely to be the following:
(a)   cleaning of public facilities and infrastrucure, such as streets and drains, and
drain removal of waste accumulated over the years, etc.; and
(b)    periodic waste collection by non-motorized methods and cleaning of public
infrastructure.
2.13    The public works and public services prograns will be executed through an agency
created for this purpose, the Agence Tchadienne dtEx6cution des Travaux d'IntirEt Public
(ATETIP, see para. 2.36 and Annex I for details on the institutional set-up). The adoption by
ATETIP of a first batch of subprojects acceptable to IDA amounting to a total of at least US$2.75
million, for implementation during the first year will be a condition of efitiveness (para. 3.3(a)).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Agency will:
(a)   submit to IDA the second anmnal work progmm no later than April 30, 1995 for at
least US$2.75 million, the third annual work program no later than April 30, 1996
for at least US$2.75 million, and the fourth annual work program no later than
April 30, 1997 for at least US$2.75 million (para. 3.2 (g));
(b)   adopt the second annual work program no later than August 31, 1995, the third
annual work program no later than August 31, 1996, and the fourth anmual work
program no later than August 31, 1997 (para. 3.2 (h));
(c)    complete the second annual work progran no later than June 30, 1996, the third
annual work program no later than June 30, 1997, and the fourth anmal work
program no later than June 30, 1998 (para. 3.2 (i)).
2.14    Initially, labor-intensive activities financed by the project will be concentrated in the
N'Djamena area. But, after about one year, ATETIP will be able to undertake similar operations
in other urban and pen-urban areas. When expanding its operations to a broader geographic zone,
ATETIP will have to keep manat costs under control, which may lead to starting several
operations in the same region at the same time, in order to reduce supervision and inspection costs.
b) Capacity Building Component through Training and Technical Support (US$2. 7 million)
2.15    Training and Technical Support to Domestic Contractors and Consultants. This
component will aim at increasing the technical and managerial capacity of small- and medium-
scale Chadtian firms in the building and constuction trades. This cmponent will represent
approximately 14% of ATETIPs activities in terms of total project costs. The rationale behind
this component is twofold:
(a)    most firms in the target group are expected to show weaknesses, in terms of
managenent, work organiion, and technical skldls, which might jeopardize the



12
successful implementation of the subprojects that they will be commissioned to
carry out. The provision of some technical assistance to contractors is deemed an
effective way of addressing this risk; and
(b)    conversely, those films which are awarded contracts under the proposed projects
may be expected to be comparatively more efficient than others if the selection
process is effective.  Therefore, with a focus on strengthening comparative
advantages instead of randomly spreading assistance over the whole industry,
these firms deserve to be supported to improve the overall efficiency and
competitiveness of the industry.
2.16    The Agency will conduct a detailed survey to determine the specific training needs and
the ability of the contractors to participate in the financing of these needs. Nonetheless, a survey
conducted over the course of the PADS Project revealed that all entrepreneurs inerviewed
expressed interest in training for themselves and their employees in specific fields (site
management, technical training, accounting and finance). They complained that the existing local
training/educational institutions, in both the public and private sectors, do not offer training
modules adapted to their specific needs.
2.17    Based on the findings of the survey, several sub-programs will be offered under this
coon ent, some of which could be:
(a)    a business administration and financial management program  intended for
entepreneurs and their administrative staff,
(b)    a work organization program primariiy designed for foremen; and
(c)    various technical training courses to improve the skldls of basic workers.
2.18    These training subprograms will be very practical and will take the form of on-the-job
assistance and training. Short sessions (four hours per day, over two to five days, for instance)
will be organized to allow the trainees to perform their regular duties on a part-time basis.
Managerial and technical assistance and txaining will be offered on a voluntary basis. Contractors
(or artisans or communities) who already meet the pre-qualification requirements will be free to
accept or refuse this form of assistance, and will be classified as eligible to bid for the appropriate
nature and size of works.
2.19    The establishment of this technical and managerial assistance operation for the small-
and medium-sized firms involved in project execution will be delegated to an outside entity that will
be conted for this purpose. A similar program  will offer training and technical assistance to
consulting firms and individual consultants (mattres d'oeuvre). The review of the local consultg
industry commissioned under the Transport Sector Project (TSP) has shown that the limited
number of existing firms suffer, to various exents, from insufficient technical capacity. In
addition, the review identified individuals who have the potential to act as individual consultants or
to set up their own firms, subject to nmrket opportunities and the provision of trang.
Consequently, a package of training and technical assistance will be offered to contractors,
indhivdual consultants and consulting finms. Deails on cost participation by participants will be
addressed as part of the training plan, receipt of which (in a version acceptable to IlDA), "
condition for effectiveness (para. 3.3 (b)). At a minimum, it will be require that the workers being



13
trained continue to receive their salaries in order to avoid creaing disincentives for them to attend
taing. Assurances were obtained at negoiatigns at the agreed action plan will be updated
anmually by June 30 to reflect the needs identified during site supervision of project execution
(para. 3.20)).
2.20    Training and Technical Support to Beneficiaries (US$0.28 million). This componen
wiln provide support to the beneficianes (local governments and ministries) for preparing feasibility
studies and technical project proposals that would be submitted to ATETIP for fuding. It will be
organized on a basis sinilar to the technical assistance provided to contractors and consultants.
ATETIP's submission of an action plan acceptable to IDA for the first year training programn fo
the beneficiaries is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.3(b)). The agreed action plan vl be
updated annually by June 30 to reflect the needs identified dunng project supervision (para. 3.2
c) Program to Increase Community Participation (US$0.25 million base cost)
2.21    This component would finance the organization of a program to increase community
participation in subproject identification and urban infastructure project maintenance. (The terms
of reference for the study which will desfign the program are given in Annex 2). This progran
would dissmminate infrmation (using the local languages, logos, appropriate colors and music) to
the chefs de quartier, neighborhood cmmites and to the tdcherons and microentrepreneurs to
increase the level of responsibility that the community feels with respect to project works. In this
framework, ATETIP will organize a number of activities to increase public awareness and support
for the project. The credit will provide financing for these activities, including informanti
senmnars to distribute documenttion and to sensitize the population on the project and a multi-
m-edia campaign throughout project implementation. The objective of this effort is to improve
communication between the communities and local authorities so that the former are consulted on
projects that affect their neighborhoods, before the projects are presented to the Agency for fimding
and implementation. This is particularly important in the case of garbage collection and sewer
cleaning, where community participation can make a substantial difference in terms of public
hygiene. Again, ATETIP will contract out this component to local consultants and the local media.
ATETIP's submission of an action plan satisfactory to IDA for the first year conmmnity
participation progr.am is a condition of credit eff ctiveness (para. 3.3(b)). The agreed action plan
will be updated by June 30 to reflect the needs identified during project execution (para. 3.20)).
d) Project Monitoring (US$0. 48 million)
2.22    This component would finance the implementation by ATETIP of a program to monitor
and evaluate its operations and the other activities it finances. The rationale for this component is
that since the Agency has been endowed with significant independence and autonomy to conduct its
business efficiently and effectively without being subject to any ex ante controL it is essential dtat
it be subject to close, periodic ex post monitoring to ensure the integrity of its procedures.
Thorough and rapid ex post audits would ensure that the Agency uses the funds in accordace wih
the Manual of Procedures. Consequently, a program of quarterly technical, managerial, and
financial reviews of the Agency's performance will be carried out by an extenal auditor acceptable
to IPA. Ibis auditor will produce quarterly ine   reports and a complete annual audit report.
Agrements on terms of reference of the quarterly financial, technical, managerial, and annual
audits and on the short-list of potential auditing finns were obtained at negotations (para. 3.2(a)).



14
e) Procurement Reform and Implementation(US$0.68)
2.23    The Govement enacted a new procurement code and process in November 1990, under
the TSP and the UNDP Assistance to Planning Project (CHD/871001). Due to problems in
applyig the new code and to insufficient trainmg and inexperienced staff in the Directon des
Marches Publics (DMP), as we}l as high staff tum-over, complaints have aisen concewg the
slow pace at which prourement is being handled. With the objective of helping the Gove ent's
review of existing procurement policies to achieve a more transparent and efficit code and
process, this component will finance the following:
(a)    a selective audit study of govrment contmcts to uncover the specific operational
bottlenecks in procurenent, contracting, works supervision, and payments and
audits that impede project implemention.  This audit, to be caried out by a
prvate finn, will build on the finduigs of the latest IDA Country Procurement
Assessment Review by helping the Government to documet specific probletn
areas. The study will also recommend altenmative procedures and contact
administation methods which would mitigate the current weakses and reslt in
a more transparent and efficient procurent process. Agreement an the terms of
rference for the audit study and follow-up technical assistance was oble
*nognwotiafions (para. 3.2(b));
(b)   an Action Plan, which details the course of action that Govermnt intends to
follow to adopt the changes ecommended by the audit study and how the plan will
be implemented; and
(c)    consulting services which may be required to provide technical assistance in the
draftig of a revised procurement code and application (manuals, training of tk
new procedures).
2.24    The folowing were also agreed upon during negans (para. 3.2(b)):
(a)   the audit study will be completed by December 31, 1994;
(b)    within three months of the completion of the audit study, the Govemnt will
present to IDA for its commets an Action Plan to adopt the chnges
recmmended by the audit study, showing how they will be inplemented;
(c)   the Government will subsequenby adopt the agreed Action Plan, no later than
Decmber 31, 1995; and
(d)   the Goverment will implement the agreed Action Plan by Decenber 31, 1996.
C. Status of Project Preparation
2.25    To date, direct IDA involvement in the urban sector in Chad has been linfited. IDA has
begun preparng a proposed municipal development and infrastructure project with the overall
objective of suportig the Govenments eifrts to develop and implement an urban development
strat. More spectficaDly, the project would address the issues of local resoure mobiliaion fbr



is
ifstrucue investment and maintene. In preparation for this project, the Government has
launched a feasibility study of urban infiastruchtre investments for N'Djamena, financed by the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). While this study is beig conducted, the Governme
expressed to IDA the desire to embark on a priority progr  of small-scale public works which are
urgently needed in the poorest neighborhood in NDjamena by undertaking a public works and
capacity building project. A prepation mission visited NDjamena in March 1993, followed by a
pre-appraisal mission in July 1993. The appraisal mission was carried out in November 1993, and
negotiations were conducted from April 4-8, 1994.
2.26    At the inception of the project, a coordination committee was set up by the Minister of
Plan and Cooperation, including rVpresenaives from the municipality of N'Djamena and the
Ministry of Public Works (Urban Unit). This committee has taken an active part in preparig the
legal documents necessary for the creation and operation of the ATETIP, reviewing the TORs of
the various preparatory studies, and in the selection process for the positon of the Agency's
General Director. The Comitte also assisted in the selection of the four pilot projects to be
executed during the preparatory stages prior to project effectiveness.
2.27    Project preparation actions have benefited from the restructuring of two projects
currently under superision: PADS and the Economic and Financial Maagement Project (Cr.
1872-CD). In addition, an advance of US$210,000 from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF),
the need for which was idtified during the appraisal mission, has been put in place. These
different sources of financng are fiunig the following: (a) feasibility studies and implementation
of fou pilot projects selected during the appraisli mission, and (b) the Agency's initial set-up and
operating costs.
2.28    Additional funding was obtned frm various trust funds (Danish and Italian) to finance
short-term consant services in various fields (review of the construction sector, identification of
the training program for consWtats, small- and medium-sized enterprises, and beneficiaries, and
action plan to increase community participation). These studies were carried out during
October/November 1993 and the draft reports were produced in February/March 1994. The
selection process for the Agency's management team is well underway: the General Director has
been chosen and was part of the negotiations team. Govemrn s com nt to this project and
its objectives is evidenced not only by the hiring of Faso Baara (AGETIP in Burkia Faso) to help
in the initial execution of the pilot projects (prequalification of enteprises and preparation of
bidding documents), but also by the fact they have chosen the ATETIP to execute the investnt
components in two IDA-financed projects: the Fifkh Education Project and the proposed health
project (scheduled for Board prestaion this fiscal year).
D. Project Cost and Fuacing Plan
2.29    The program cost is estimated at US$20.39 milion equivalent (CFAF 12.0 billion) net
of taxes and duties, out of which the proposed credit will finance US$17.39 million equivalent.
The foreign exchange component of the program is estimated at 53.1% of the total cost. Base cost
estimates, US$17.82 million are in December 1993 prices. Amnual inflation rates have been
estimated as follows:



16
Table 1: Local and Foreign Inflation Rates
1995              1996              1997              1998
Local             6.0               3.0               2.0               2.0
Foreign           2.4               3.2               3.4               3.2
2.30     Since the volume of labor-intensive public works will be adjusted according to available
fimds, price contingencies have not been applied to the estimated local cost of the labor-intensive
public works and service component (including design and supervision) which amounts to US$12.0
million. Price contingencies on the remaining components amount to US$0.37 million (2% of
project costs). A summary of estimated costs is presented in Table 2 below. Detailed project costs
are provided in Annex 3.
2.31     Govemment Counterpart Funds.  The proposed IDA credit of US$17.39 million
equivalent will finance 85% of project costs net of duties and taxes over a four-year period. The
local contnbution made by the Government will be for an estimated amount of US$1 . million.
Table 2: Project Cost Summary (net of taxes and duties)
US$ Millon
Component                       Local                    Total   % Forelg
Public Works                      4.80        7.20       12.00        60%
TA-Contractors                    1.76        0.95        2.70        35%
Training-beneficiaries           0.14         0.14        0.28        50%
Community Participation          0.20         0.05        0.25        20%
Monitoring                       0.19         0.29        0.48        60%
Procurement Reform & Impl.       0.17         0.51        0.68        75%
Incremental Operating Expenses    1.01        0.00        1.01        0%
Office Installation & Equipment  0.05         0.37        0.42        88%
Total Base Costs                  8.32        9.50       17.82        53%
Price Contingencies              0.23         0.13        0.37        36%
Refinancing PPF                  0.08         0.13        0.21        62%
Total Project Costs              8.63         9.76       18.39        53%
Parallel-Financed Works          0.80         1.20        2.00        60%
Total Program Costs               9.43       10.96       20.39        54%
Figurc may not add up due to roumdin.
2.32     This project is not requesting a local counterpart from  the beneficianes of the
subprojects, as in the "second-generation" AGETIP projects (Senegal II, Mauritania, The Gambia)
for a number of reasons. First, the dire financal conditions which exist in Chad would justify at
least the same project feaues  as those in the first AGETIP projects (Senegal I, Burkina Faso,
Niger, and Mali), where no beneficiary counterpart was required. Second, the fact that
rmucipalities (the mam beneficianes of the project) do not have the legal authority and/or
administrative and financil capability to comply with this requirenent would make it critical dth
no beneficiary counterpart be required. Due to the accounting primciple of "umcit6 de caisse"
utilized in Chad, all fiuns are deposited with, and ubmately expensed at the discretion of the



17
Treasury. This lack of municipal fiscal autonomy illustrates the liquidity problems ficed by
municipalities and the main reason why this requirement would be a major stumbling block in the
project implementation. This disturbing situation in Chad's municipal finances was also
highighted in the latest study Plan de RdfNrence-N'Djamena, conducted by Groupe Huit in May
1993. This issuc of municipal finanecs will be addressed in the proposed municipal development
and infrastructure project for which a PPF has already been approved.
2.33    As regards Government counterpart funds, agrmentwa obtned durin negotiato
that the Government will:
(a)    cause the Agency to execute subprojects (other than those financed by the IDA
credit and other donors) with an aggregate cost of US$1 million equivalent be{fe
June 30, 1998, including interediaty batches of subprojects cosfing at least
US$250,000 for every period of 12 months starting July 1, 1994 (para. 3.2(c)(i));
(b)    make available to the Agency all the finds necessary for the execution of the
subprojects in accordance wifth the following schedule:
(i)    US$250,000 for the first year of subprojects as a condition o
effectiveness (para. 3.2(c)(ii));
(ii)    US$250,000 by July 1, 1995 for the second year of subprojects (para
3.2(c)(iii));
(iii)   US$250,000 by July 1, 1996 for the third year of subprojects (para.
3.2(c)(iv)); and
(iv)   US$250,000 by July 1, 1997 for the fourth year of subprojet  pam
3.2(c)(v)).
2.34    Cofinancing. Parallel financing totlg US$2 million is expected in the latter years of
the project (OPEC Fund and FED have expressed interest). This conservative expectation is based
on experience in several other counties, for which co-financing has matenaized only afte the
Agency has demonstated its effectiveness.
2.35    The proposed financing plan is set out in the following table:
Table 3: Finacing Plan
(USSmlion)
Tot   % Proj. Cost
IDA          17.39  85%
Goverment    1.00  5%
Other donors   2.00  10%
Total cost   20.39



18
E. Project Implementation
The Agency
2.36    The executing agency, ATETIP, will be responsible for executing the investment
program of labor-intensive subprojects. The Agency will have a small staff, including a General
Dirr.-tor assisted by one Financial Director and one Technical Directo. The activities of the
Agtacy will be guided by a Manual of Procedures outlining the policies and procedures to be
followed in the conduct of its activities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that at all times
during project implementation, the General Director, the Technical Director, and the Financial
Director of the Agency must be acceptable to IDA, and the Agency must be operated in an
efficient manner (para. 3.3(e)). This project will be executed over a four-year period (see Annex
10) through ATETIP, created for this purpose, and for executing projects using "delegated contact
mangenmen" in general (see para. 2.36 and Annex 1). The implementing arrangements which are
critical for effective fulfillment of the project's objectives will be similar to those of other
AGETIPs, in particular, the extensive use of delegated contract management. These arrangements
are described in detai in Annexes 4 to 8. ATEIIP -wil be an independent institution, with the legal
status of a non-govenmental non-profit organzation. Its board will consist of a General Director
drawn from the private sector and representatives of existing non-governmental, non-profit
organizations (see Annex 4 - Statutes). ATETIP will enter into a Framnework Agreement
(Conventon) wi GOC to execute the project (Annex 5). It will have its own By-Laws (Annex 6)
and its own procedures in order to avoid the cwnbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that
public instiuions follow in calling for bids, awarding cotracts and disbursing funds, which result
in de facto discrination agamst small contactors. Assurances were obtained at negotations that
at all times, the Statutes of Agmen of the Agency and the Manual of Procedures will be
acceptable in form and substance to IDA (pam. 3.2(d)).
2.37    Setting-up of ATETIP. The Agency's creaton and the appointment of its General
Director, acceptable to IDA, were con.itions of neoatons (para. 3.1(a)). In addition, the
Agency's Technical Director and Financial Director, both acceptable to IDA, will be appointed as
a condton of effbctiveness (para. 3.3(d). Governents final agreement on ATETIP's Statutes,
By-Laws, Manual of Procedures and Framework Agreement between Government and ATETlP,
all in forn and substance acceptable to IDA, was obtained durg ngotiations (para. 3.2(d)).
Sigature of the Framwwork Ageement by ATEIIP and GOC, and adoption by ATETIP of
Statutes, By-Laws, and Manual of Procedres, all acceptable to IDA in form and substance, are
andiions of effectiveness (pama. 3.3(e)).
2.38 Pilot Operations. The pilot projects were agreed upon during the appraisal and will be
started as soon as final designs are completed. The description of these operations is given in
Annex 7. Their implementation will help set up ATET's working procedures and famliarize
beneficianes, consultants, contactors and ATETIP staff with the project.
2.39    ATEIZP's Absorptive Capacity. ATETIP is expected to have the capacity to implement
subprojects for an amount of about US$4 to US$5 million per year. This amount represents an
approxinate 15/-20% increase in volume in the construction sector. In terms of its overhead, the
Agency's operating costs represent less than 10% of the project's total costs. As the volume of
public works managed by the Agenc  icreases due to demands from other projects, this
pentage will decrease in keeping with the low adminiratve overhead costs associated with and



19
AGETIP-type structure. ATETIP will identify consulting firms or individual onsultants, and
contors to execute the subprojects. Prelimiary surveys conducted by other IDA projects
indicate the existence of approximuately six consulting firms and 100 firms in the construction
sector (see para. 1.11). It is expected that consulting firms and individual consultants from
neighboring countries (some from Chad originally) will also respond to the sudden surge m dmand
for these services. In addition, the technical assistance and trauinig program (paras. 2.15 to 2.20)
will increase the implementing capacity.
A TETIP's Opera1ing Procedures
2.40    ATETIP's operating procedures and internal organization will mclude: (a) eligibility
cnteria for selectmg subprojects submitted by local and central administrations for implementation
under the proposed project; (b) procedures for calling for bids, selecting contractors and vendors
(including pr-qualification if necessary), and awarding contacts; (c) internal organization for
work supervision and control; (d) disbursement procedures; and (e) procedures for handing over
completed works. Accounts will be audited on a quarterly basis, and resources will be replenished
only upon presentation of properly documented records of the use of funds and satisfictory audits.
2.41    Subproject Identification and Appraisal. ATETIP will widely advertise the procdures
contined in the Manual of Procedures (Annex 8), especially as they pertain to the categories of
works and services eligible to be financed under the project. ATETIP will review the subprojects
that are presented by the municipalities and ministies of the cetral Government and will verify
their eligibilty based on certain pre-determined criteria known and published in the Manual of
Procedures. The portfolio of projects identified will then be submitted to IDA for review, in anmnal
batches. After analysis, the portfolio to be executed for the coming year will be retained and
approved. It is then that consultng firms wvill be hired to prpare bidding and tecbmical documents
to call for bids.
2.4k    Subproject Implementation. Once a subproject has been selected, the local government
or ministry which has submitted it ("the beneficiary") will enter into an agrement (Gnvention de
delegation de ma?trise d'ouvrage) with the Agency, according to a pre-established model which is
attached to the Agency's Manual of Procedures. This agreement will include inter alia the
following provisions:
(a)   the Agency is substuted for the beneficiary for the entire execution of the
subproject and has fill authority, on behalf of the beneficiary, to select the
contractors, sign the conracts, supervise the works, ackmowledge delivery, and
pay coractors;
(b)   the subproject is financed by the Agency, on the basis of the funds made available
to it under the project; and
(c)   the beneficiary pledges responsibility for the ongoing mamtnce of the
subproject; in case of non-compliance with this clause, the beneficiary will not
have further access to the Agency's financial resources until the siuation is
rectified.
2.43    Contracting and Superision. With the support of a management inlfmation system
containing files for contractors, consulting firms and subprojects, all of which have been screened



20
and reviewed by IDA, ATETIP will be able to proceed swify with contracting without the long
delays observed in the public procurement system. A condition of effectiveness wull be that
ATETIP submit to IDA a list of preselected contractors and consultants (para. 3.3(f)).
2.44    A roster of eligible contactors and consulting finns to be set up and maitained by the
Agency will always be open, and newcomers, once they satisfy the requirements specified in the
Manual of Procedures, can be pre-qualified and classified. At the end of the year, the roster will be
r-examned and fims will be reclassified based on performance, with communication to IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ATETIP will periodically submit proposals to IDA
to update the roster of consultants and contractors (para. 3.2(k)). Besides the guidelines delineated
in the Manual of Procedures, ATETIP will execute the subprojects with the support of a
management information system which will allow for rapid decision-making. At any time, the
managers of the Agency shall know exactly what the situation is for every project, supplier,
paymet, voucher, and bill. Problems shall be identified and corrected immediately. A consulting
finn, acceptable to IDA, will be selected within six weeks after the completion of negotiations to
assist the setting-up of ATETIP's accountig system, following terms of reference agd upo
kn negoiagmns (para. 3.2(f)). The setting-up of the ATE,- P's operational accounting system
acceptable to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.3(g)).
Project Monitoring and Review
2.45    Annual Reews. The project design includas an annual review to check the efficiency of
ATETIP's pcedures and management (using per.ormance indicators described in Table 6 para.
2.59) and to adopt adequate changes. During the project launch workshop, additional project
indicators (quantitative as well as qualitative) will be identified to capture the long-term capacity-
building impact of the project on firms and, possibly, individual workers. Agreement on the scope
and dats for the annual reviews was obtained durng negotiations (para. 3.2(a)).
2.46    Mid-Term Revew and Quarterly Supervision. A mid-term review will be carried out
two years after prvect effectiveness (during the second calendar quarter in 1996), as a more m-
depth annual review. In orer to better understand the target groups of beneficiaries (individuals,
firms, municipalities, etc.) and as part of the mid-term review, ATETIP will commission a number
of studies to monitor the issues of labor ratio, wages, cost overruns, completion delays, unit prices,
etc. The review will also provide an opportnity to evaluate, and, if needed, to modify some
fatures of the project. It will allow an in-de  review of how the credit has been allocated to
social and eonmic subprqjects, and to introduce changes if needed. In addition, quarterly
financial, management and technical audits will be conducted by an extemal auditor acceptable to
IDA (para. 2.22). Agreements on terms of reference for the quarterly financial, technical,
magemt audits and mid-term review (para. 3.2(a)), as well as agreement on the short-List of
potential auditmg firms and dates for the mid-term review were obtained at negoations (para.
3.2(a)).
F. Procurement
2.47    The procrmet procedures according to which the Agency will select contractors and
award contracts are another important feature of the project. These special procurement
procedures were designed to address the issue of employment generation, and at the same time
elnsure dequate competition. They have been successfilly used in other similar agencies in the
regico. As mentioned earlier in the report, agreement on the Manual of Procedures was obtained



21
during negotiations (para. 3.2(d)). Similar procurement experiences in Senegal, Niger, and Mali
indicate that such a Manual encourages competition while providing transparency and efficiency in
Agency operation.
2.48    Computer equipment and other goods will be procured through intenational or local
shipping. Any goods over US$10,000 are subject to prior review. It is anticipated that all the civil
works contracts wii be under CFAF 200 million (about or less than US$0.34 million). In case any
contract is higher than this value, International Competitive Biddig procedures (ICB) wiln be
followed for such procurement contracts.
2.49    ATETIP will maintain a roster of contractors eligible for Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). It will set up a list of eligible contractors and engineering firms and individual
professionals according to procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in the Manual of
Procedures. The roster will stay pern during project execution so as to allow additional
applications at any time. Large firms, foreign and local, using modern equipment are not likely to
be interested by the type and size of most subprojects proposed, but they will not be precluded
from bidding. The purpose of preregistration will be to determine the contrators who can
demonstrate their ability to carry out the proposed labor-intensive works effectively and will,
therefore, be eligible to bid. The actual performance of the conractors awarded contracts under
the project will provide the basis for the Agency to reassess the contractors' classification, and
consequently upgrade or downgrade them. Reassessment of contractor capacity and capability
classifications in the roster will be transparent and based on actual performance (Manual of
Procedures).
2.50    The target group of firms expected to participate in project procurement comprises
primarily small- and medium-scale enterprises, which are more likely than large ones to bid fbr
labor-intensive projects. The objective of the standard procuremnent procedure to be followed in
this project is to ensure fair competition among eligible contractors without requiring them to
prepare a complex proposal, including detailed price calculations. The core of the procurement
procedure will be local advertisement among registered contractors of a proposed contract for a
given subproject. All contactors included on the roster for the category of works and the area
concerned by the subproject will be invited to bid, and notices will be published in the local press
to infonn potential bidders who have yet to ask to be registered by ATETIP.
2.51    The bidding documents, which will be written in simple language and will describe the
scope and nature of the works, propose a reference price with some straightforward explanations
about its calculation (unit prices and quantities). Contractors will be invited to bid by way of
discounts both on the total price and on the unit prices. Among eligible bidders, the winner will be
selected on the basis of the proposed discount and other criteria (such as timeliness of
perfornnance) - if any is specified in the bidding documents - and invited to sign the proposed
contract. The contract awarding committee, composed of the Agency's General Director,
Technical and Financial Directors, will have full authority to select the winner. However, it will
have to justify in writing, in the minutes of the meeting, and in reference to the explicit criteria
listed in the bidding documents, any decision not to select the lowest bid. This may happen when
the total bid price is lower than the estimated price by more than 15% and the bidder is unable to
provide a credible explanation, or when uit prices are erratic. The contract award commitee will
open the bids in public and the bidding firms or their representatives may attend the meeting.



22
2.52     For al contracts for wich  there    ar e less tan fi biddes   and  for conacts withan
estimated cost equal to or greater than CFAF 100 mdllion (about or less than US$0.17 million), the
awarding committee wifl submit its decision to IDA for approval prior to no g the winig
bidder. Quartewly management audits will review ATElIP's conmliance with bidding procedures
descnbed in the Manual of Prcedur  and (for ICB) in Bank guidelines and sample biddimg
documents.
Table 4: Procurement 11
(US$Ilion)
Procurement Mlethd d
project Elment                ICB          LCB        Other        NIPF      Total Cost
1. Public Works/Services                     $11.00                   $3.00       $14.00
($11.00)                            ($11.00)
2. Goods
2.1. Office Equip'tVehicles                               $0.42                   $0.42
($0.42)                 ($0.42)
3. Consulting Services
3.1 TA to Contracrs                                       $2.70                   $2.70
($2.70)                 ($2.70)
3.2 Training to Beneficiares                             $0.28                    $0.28
($0.28)                 ($0.28)
3.3 Community Participaton                                $0.25                   $0.25
($0.25)                 ($0.25)
3.4 Monitoring (Acct/Audit)                              $0.48                    $0.48
($0.48)                 ($0.48)
3.5 Procurem't Reform                                    $0.68                    $0.68
($0.68)                 ($0.68)
4. Agency Increm'l Op. Costs                              $1.01                    $1.01
($1.01)                 ($1.01)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Unallocated                                          $0.37                    $0.37
($0.37)                 ($0.37)
5.2 PPF Refinancing                                       0.21                    $0.21
($0.21)                 ($0.21)
TOTAL                                        $11.00       $6.39       $3.00       $20.39
($11.00)    ($6.39) ____            ($17.39)
Note: Figpres in parents  show IDA amount Cofinancd in parallel by other donors; (b)
Services should be procured in accordance with Bank Guiddines (Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execting Agenc.
2.53     Consultant services for training, technical assistance, and project monitoring will be
procured according to the Bank Guidelines "Use of Cosu tants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executng Agency". For the mode of selection of consultant services, the
Agency will use short-listing of finms or indiviuals. Hiring of individuals will be done on the
basis of adequate advertising and hiring of firms will follow the guidelmes in the Mnal of



23
Procedures. Prior review by IDA would be requr  for all consultancy conacts for individuals
above US$10,000 and for firms above US$30,000. A summazy of the consulting services in man-
months required is given in Amex 9.
2.54     hese procurement procedures have been used by similar agencies in West Africa and
have worked well. As in the other projects in the Region, only parallel financing is envisaged.
Should joint finacing occur, it will be done in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
G. Disbursements
2.55    The proposd IIDA Credit is expected to be totally disbursed by DOecnber 31, 1998.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of 100% of total expenditures for IDA's share of civil
works and public services conract and 100% for all other categones. The Govement wil
disburse 100% against its share of civil works contracts (US$1.0 million) equivalent to 8.3% of the
sum of civil works financed jointly by IDA and by the Governmt (US$12.0 million). This
procedure has been selected to ensure the independence of the Agency in making payments to
contractors, who have had very bad experiences with pn7 passu disbursement procedures. To
ensure that IDA does not disburse all of its contibution without corresponding action by
Goverment, IDA would have the remedy of suspedig disbursmens at the end of the first,
second and third years, should the Govement have failea to make its contribution (see paras. 2.33
and 3.2(c)). Agremnat on the size, timing and payment procedures of Goverment counterpart
finds to be made available to the Agency was obtained at negotions (pam. 3.2(c)).
2.56    To aepedite project implenatn, a Special Account denomnated in CFAF will be
opened at a commercial bank and manained and operated on terms and conitions acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocation will be CFAF 883 million (equivalent to US$1.5 million),
representing anticipated eligible ependit    financed by IDA for a four-month period. The
Special Account will be replenished monffly and must be accompanied by a bank satement and a
recociliaton statement of the Special Account.
2.57    All withdrawal applications will be acompanied by full do aon, except for
contracts for civil works valued at less than US$250,000 equivalent and for goods and sevices
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursanents will be made on the basis of
Statenents of Expenditur  (SOEs). In such cases, the relevant do on will be retained by
ATETP for review by IDA supervision missions and the proect's external auditors.



24
Table S: Disbursement by Category
Category                     Amount          %
(U.S$MI1lon)   Fiaced
1) Public Works               11.00       100%
2) TA to Contractors, Cons.
Firms, TRG to Benefs.,
Project Monitoring           3.71      100%
3) Cons. Procurent Study       0.68       100%
4) Equipment for Executing
Agency                       0.42       100%
5) Executing Agency's Increm'l
Operating Costs              1.01       100%
6) PPF Refinancing             0.21  amount due
7) Unalocated                  0.37
TOTAL                          17.39
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
2.58    The accounting system will be set up as descnbed in the Manual of Procedures.
Conslidated project accounts wil be maintained by the Agency. These accounts will be audited
quarterly (with quarterly reports) by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, according to terms of
reference agreed by IDA (para. 3.2(a)). Auditors will express separate opinions on SOEs and
specal accounts. Project accounts and auditors' reports will be submittd to IDA win thuee
months of the close of each quarter. Besides financial audits, ATETlP will submit to quarterly
_managemen and technical audits, as part of its project monitoring program (see para. 2.22).
Following its Manual of Procedures and its By-Laws, the Agency will submit quarterly progress
;eports and prepare a project completion report (PCR) within three months of the closing date.
The appointmat of auditors for a period of four years will be a condition of effectiveness (para.
3.3(h)).
I. Supervision Plan
2.59    Performance Monitonng. The monitoring indicators to measure project performance
and ATETIP's management efficiency will be the following: (a) number of Conventions de
delegation de Mattrise d'Ouvrage; (b) number of contracts signed with enterprises; (c) number of
contwts completed; (d) percenge of contracts completed on time and on budget; (e) pertage
of payments to conactors within 30 days of invoice reception; (f) number of man-months of
employment created; and (g) average time for processing contracts. Below is a table indicating the
desired numbers and percentags to be achieved for each project year.



25
Table 6: Key lndicators
Indicator                                    Year I   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4
No. of Conventions de ddldgation de Maltrise  20       40        50       S0
dOuvrage and Cumulated Amounts (US$ million)  3.0      6.0       9.0      12.0
(both per year)
No. of contracts signed per year             40        60        80       100
(Design/supervision an Works)
No. of works contracts completed (cumulated)  30       60        70       100
Percentage of contracts completed on time    80        90        90       90
Percentage of contracts completed on budget  80        90        90       90
Percentage of payments contractors within 30 days of 90  100     100      100
invoice receipt (per year)2
Averi,e time for processing contracts (working  45     30        20       20
Percentage salaries/total cost               10        8        7         7
No. of man/months of employment created per year    10,000    20,000    20,000    20,000
Trining/Asstce (No. of beneficiaries per year)    20   25        30       3
TraininglAssistance (No. offirms peryear)    30        50        50       60
Traiing/Assistance (No of conswtants per year)  5      10        15       20
2.60     Supervision Missions. The project will be executed over a period of four years and will
be supervised every four months. Supervision missions will consist of field trips to visit work sites
to review financial and management practices, bidding, and payments procedures, micro, and
small-scale entetrise participation, as well as mamirmton of employment creation. Supervision
missions will also carefully monitor the number of maitres doeuvre, the number of finrs bidding
and winning contact and the number of firms receiving technical assistance.  A detailed
supervision plan is presented in Annex 11.
J. Environmental Impact
2.61     ATETIP's projects in the areas of sanitation and cleaning of urban drainage, urban
renewal road maitance, sand removing, public gardens, garbage collection, school and clinic
construction and rehabilitation will lead to significant improvements in the urban enviromnent, as
shown by the review of the environmental impact of similar operations implemented by AGETIP in
Senegal. In fact, to ensure that the impact of these projects has been assessed ex ante, an
evaluation criterion has been added to the Manual of Procedures stipulatng that proposed projects
having a negative impact on the envrnment will be ineligible for execution.
2.62     The annual technical audits wil also include an evromnmtal assessmnt of how the
subprojects are carried out by ATETIP. In addition, for the midtenm  review, ATETIP will
commission an assessment of the environntal impact of the subprojects carried out during te
first half of the project. This review will examine all subprojects pertaining to sand removal,
2For payments made fim the ATETIP's specia account
3Time betwee bid opening and contract award



26
dramage, building and road rehabiltation, and garbage collection to confirm their positive
environmental impact and make recommendations on how to mitigate any adverse impacts that
may be identified.
K. Impact on Unemploymenet
2.63    The main objective of the project -is to execute urgently needed small-scale public works
through the utilisation of local contactors using labor-intensive techniques. Tlhe expected impact
of the project is two-fold:
(a)    direct inpact during the project. Assumning that 30% of the value of the contracts
for works are for wages, and on the basis of an average cost per worker of CFAF
25,000 per month, the project will finance about 85,000 man-months over the four
years of the project. This direct impact will be monitored closely through the
related performance indicator (see Table 6); and
(b)   indirect impact durmg the project. Each dollar or CFAF spent under a public
works/services contract has a secondary impact on the local economy through
subcontracig to and purchasing fomm local firms.  This impact, although
potentally of the same order of magntude as the direct impact, is currently
impossible to estimate, due to lack of reliable and detailed data on the
consuption patterns of the labor force.
L. Economic Analysis
2.64    An economic analysis has been carried out for the pilot projects to be executed before
the project effectiveness, on the basis of a comparison of discounted economic costs and benefits
over time. Specific benefits depend on the type of subproject, but include among other things:
(a)   reduction in vehicle operating costs, in the case of urban road maintenance or
rehabilitaion subprojects;
(b)   reductions in the cost of services, in the case of labor-intensive garbage collection
which would otherwise be undertake by more mechanized technologies; and
(c)   avoided cost of reconstruction, in the case of subprojects involving maintenance or
rehabiltation of infratructure and/or buildings that would otherwise deteriorate.
2.65    The subprojects to be executed have estmated itemal rates of return ranging from 20%
to 60%. The construction of drainage canals and the rehabilitation of classrooms and of health
facilities reach the highest internal rates of return (IRR) (40 and 60%). In the cases of road
rehabilitation, IRRs have been estmated at 20% and 30% respectively.



27
M. Benefits and Risks
2.66    Benefits. The project will have several direct benefits: (a) high economic return on
rehabilitation operations; (b) employment creation; (c) subprojects concerned with garbage
collection, and drainage will have a positive impact on the environment; (d) long-tenr benefit of
enhancing theefficiency of the public sector (it will have a spill-over effect on other IDA projects-
such as education and health-by increasing the capacity and efficiency of the construction sector);
and (e) enhanced sustainability of future urban municipal projects. Most importantly, the project
will help reduce a significant backlog of economic and social infrastructure in.Chad (principally
NDjamena, Moundou and Sahr). The smooth operation of the Agency would show a workable
alternative to traditional procurement procedures. This demonstration effect, coupled WI$ the
study of govenmment contracts would contribute to improving the public procurement system in
general. It will generate incomes for many categories of the work force in the building and
construction trades, thereby creatng a multiplier effect on the local economy.
2.67    Risks. The first major risk is that the Agency may misuse its considerable independence.
The risk will be reduced by the selection of a qualified Geneal Director, who will have to be at all
tumes acceptable to IDA. In addition, the proposed intensity of supervision will closely monitor the
implementation of the Manual of Procedures and frequent exernal audits will provide sufficient
opportunity to deal with inadequate perfonnance on the part of the Agency or any Govenmment
interference. The second major risk is that local contractors and consulting finns may lack the
capacity required to implement the project on tune. This nsk will be greatly reduced by
implementing the project over four years to take into account the absorptive capacity of the sector.
In addition, technical assistance and training components included in the project are expected to
increase the capacity of local contractors and consulting finns. This third major risk is that the
volume of employment created by the project may faU short of expectations or be less than
significant when compared to the present level of urban unemnployment. To reduce this risk, a
strong emphasis on labor-intensive technologies wiUl be maintained throughout project
implementation .



28
SECTION III - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1     The following events took place during negotiations:
(a)   creation of ATETIP and selecuon and appointment of the ATETIPs General
Director, acceptable to IDA (para. 2.37).
3.2     The following agreements were obtained duing negotiations:
(a)    agreements on and tenus of reference for quarterly financial, technical,
managerial, and annual audits (para 2.22); agrmet on the short-list of potential
auditing firms (para. 2.22); agreenent on the scope and dates for the annual
revews (para 2.45) and the mid-term review (para. 2.46);
(b)   agreement on the followmg regarding the procurement study audit and refobrm:
(i)   agreeme on the terms of reference for the study (pam. 2.23(a));
(ii)   the audit study will be completed by December 31, 1994 (para. 2.24(a));
(iii) within three months of the completion of the audit study, the Government
wil present to IDA for its comments an Action Plan to adopt the changes
recomnmended by the audit study, showing how they will be implemented
(para. 2.24 (b)); and
(IV)   the Govemment will subsequently adopt the agreed Action Plan, no later
than Decber 31, 1995 (para. 2.24 (c));
(v)   the Govermment will subsequently implement the agreed Action Plan, no
later than December 31, 1996 (para. 2.24(d)).
(c)    Goverment will:
(i)    cause the Agency to execute subprojects (other than those financed by the
IDA credit and other donors) with an aggregate cost of US$1 million
equivalent before June 30, 1998, including intenniary batches of
subprojects costing at least US$250,000 for every period of 12 mons
stating July 1, 1994 (para. 2.33(a));
(ii)   make available to the Agency US$250,000 for the first year of
subprojects (para. 2.33(b)(i)) as a condition of effictiveness;
(iii)   make available to the Agency US$250,000 by July 1, 1995 for the second
year of subprojects (pam. 2.33(b)(ii));
(iv)   make available to the Agency US$250,000 by July 1, 1996 for the third
year of subprojects (para. 2.33(b)(iii)); and



29
(v)    make available to the Agency US$250,000 by July 1, 1997 for the futh
year of subprojects (pa. 2.33(bXiv)).
(d)    agreem    that at all times during project unplen  ton, the Statutes Of
Agreemet of tie Agency and tie Manual of Prcedus will be acceptable in fonm
and substance to IDA (para. 2.36); the fonn of ATETIP'S Stattes, By-Laws,
Manuel of Procedures and the Framework Agrmet to be signed by Govemment
and ATETIP were agreed upon during negotitons (para 2.37);
(e)    agreement that at all times during project implemtion, the Geneal Director,
the Technical Director and the Fiancial Director of the Agency wull be aeptable
to IDA and the Agency will be oprated in an efficiaent manner (pam. 2.36);
(f)    selection of a consulting firm, acceptable to IDA, to assist the setfmg up of
ATETIP's accounting systen, following terms of reference, acceptable to IDA
(par. 2.44);
(g)   the Agency will submit to IDA the second annual work progrm no later than
April 30, 1995 for at least US$2.75 million, the third annual work program no
later than April 30, 1996 for at least US$2.75 million, and the fourth anual work
progrm no later than April 30, 1997 for at least US$2.75 million (Pam 2.13(a));
(h)    adopt the second anmnal work program no later than August 31, 1995, the third
annual work program no later than August 31, 1996, and the fourth annual work
program no later than August 31, 1997 (para. 2.13 (b));
(i)    complete the second annual work program no later than June 30, 1996, the third
anal work progran no later than June 30, 1997, and the fourth annual work
program no later than June 30, 1998 (par. 2.13 (c));
()    the agreed action plans for the training program for conttors, cosutants,
beneficiaries and cmmuty participation will be updated annually by June 30 to
reflect the needs identied during project supervsion (paras. 2.19, 2.20, 2.21);
and
(k)    ATETIP will submit periodically to IDA proposals to update the roster of
consultat and contractors (pam 2.44).
3.3     The following events are conditions of efctiveness:
(a)    ATETIP has adopted a first batch of subprojects acceptable to IDA amounting to
a total of at least US$2.75 million for implementation during the first year (par
2.13);
(b)    ATETIP has submitted to IDA the training plan for conactors (par  2.19),
oonsultants (para 2.19), beneficiaries (pam. 2.20), and the communiy
participation program (para. 2.21);



30
(c)    deposit GOC first years ctrpart fiunds for the execution of its first batch of
subprojects (approximately US$250,000) and ATETIP adoption of a relaed batch
of sub-projects acceptable to IDA (pam. 2.33);
(d)    ATEPs Tehicd  Director and its Finaial Direcor, both acceptable to IDA
have beew appoted (paa. 2.37);
(e)    SigWature of the Framewrk Agre   (Convemon) by ATIP and GOC, and
adoption by ATETIP of Statutes, By-Laws, and Manual of Procedures, all
acceptble to IDA in form and substace (pam. 2.37);
(O)    ATETIP has submitted a short-ist of pre-seletd contactors and consulants
(paa. 2.43);
(g)    an operational accounting system acceptable to IDA has been set up (para. 2.44);
and
(h)   the auditors have been appointed for a period of four years (pam. 2.58).
3.4     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit of SDR 12.4
million (US$17.4 million equivalent) to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA temLs with 40 years
.driy



31
ANNEX 1



32
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACIT=  BUILl)ING PROJECT
INSTTUTIONAL SET-UP
The institutional setup of this project is reflected in a number of legal and contractual
relationships among the various actors concerned: the central govermnent, local governments, the
Executing Agency, contractors, and consulting frms. The term "contractors" is used to include
building and construction companies, cooperatives, and other legally constituted entities able to
enter into a contract for subproject execution. The term "consulting firm' refers principally to
engineering and architectural firms, but may eventually include other legally constituted entities
(e.g., non-govermuental organizations (NGOs)) able to provide the services required. The legal
texts setting forth the above-mentioned contractual relationships are described below:
(a)    The Implementation of the project is entrusted to an executing agency named
Agence Tchadenw dx&cudon des Travaur d'nt0r& Public (A 7P7P), hereafter
referred to as "the Agency". The Articles of Agreement of the Agency (Satus,
Annex 4), which must at all times be acceptable to IDA, provide that the Agency
is a non-profit associadion whose Assemblge G{n&raoe includes representatives of:
the Comit6 de Liaison of the NGOs operating in Chad, the Conseil National du
Patronat Tchadien, the STEE and the Chamber of Commerce. The role of the
President of the AssemblUe CGnOrale is limited to convening and presiding the
meetings thereof. The Assemblee GnMrale also includes one physical person
elected as Director General of the Agency, to whom is fully entrusted the day-to-
day management of the Agency. As provided by the Articles of Agreement of the
Agency, the General Director may be replaced only by extraordinary decision of
the Assemblee Gtndrale. The General Director, however, must be at all times
acceptable to IDA. The Agency will be effectively created after the founding
members of the AssemblUe GdndraJe hold their first meeting (AssemnblUe G#rale
Consdtaive) to approve the Articles of Agreement.
(b) The Framework Agreement (Convention, Annex 5) between the Government and
the Agency describes the latter's modus operandi in the context of the present
project. Among other things, the Agreement establishes: that the Agency will
execute subprojects consistent with those defined in the project; that, in the
beginning, these subprojects will be exclusively located in the city of N'Djamena
and then later will be extended to other municipalities to include Moundou and
Sahr; that the Govermment of Chad will place non-reimh irsable financial
resources at the disposal of the Agency, including the r .oceeds of the credit, in a
Special Account; that the Agency can also receive resources from other sources;
that the Procedures Manual is an integral part of the Framework Agreement; that
the General Director of the Agency has full powers in connection with the
management of the Agency; that the General Director can be replaced only in
accordance with the Articles of Agreement of the Agency; that the Government
confers to the Agency all powers required for the implementation of the project;
that the Agency will execute all subprojects in strict compliance with the
Procedures Manual (which is an integral part of the Framework Agreement); and



33
33                        ~~~~AN=S  I
Page 2 of 2
that the Bylaws of the Agency cannot be modified without Government's
agreement.
(c)   'he Bylaws of the Agency (RNgleme Intirleur, Annex 6) establish the intal
organization; hiring, firing and other personnel management procedures; and
administrative rules and regulations. Ihey ensure, among other things, that the
Agency will have a small staff, including a General Director assisted by one
FinancW Director and one Technical Director.
(d)   The Proedu( Manua (Mawel de ProcJdures, Annex 7), which must at all
times be acceptable to IDA, recalls the fiirdamental objectives of the Agency and
establishes: the procedures whereby the Agency receives and processes subproject
execution requests from beneficiaries (central or local governments), including the
model Execution Agreement (ConiowJon-Type de Mafrise d 'Ovrage D6Mgude) it
will sign with the beneficiary if it decides to execute the subproject; the
procedures used by the Agency to establish and continuously update a roster of
contractors for different types of subprojects; the various procurement procedures
to be used by the Agency for subproject execution (depending on the estimated
value of the contrua), including Sample Bidding Documents with model contract
to be signed with contractr (Mod?le de Letre de Sownission, ModOle-Type de
Cauion d'Avance, and Contra-Type de Travaux); the procurement procedures to
be used by the Agency for subproject engineering and supervision, including
model contract to be signed with consulting firm (Contrat-lype d'Etudes and
Conrat-73pe de Saqervision des 7tavaux); the accounting and disbursement
procedures to be used by the Agency in connection with each subproject; the
financial management procedures to be used by the Agency; the nature and
periodicity of reporting by the Agency; the procedures to be followed to secure
independent extra auditing of the Agency; and personnel management
procedures.
ANILC.HrD



34
ANNEX 2



35
TCHAD
PROJET DE TRAVAUX D'INTEREr PUBLIC
EROET VISANI A ACCROI1ME LA PARTICIPA1ION COMMUNAUTAIIt
Termes de r6f&rences
ntrduction
1.           Le Projet de Travaux d'Int6r8t Public comprend un programme de diffusion
d'informations et de sensibilisation de la population dans son ensemble, et des beneficiaires des sous-
projets en particulier. Ce programme est consider6 comme un important instrument pour (a)
ameliorer la communication entre les communautes et les autorites locales; et (b) amener les
beneficiaires directs a participer plus activement a l'entretien des ouvrages de genie civil ou b
poursuivre les services materiels assures dans le cadre des sous-projets.
2.           Le programme comprend les activites suivantes:
(a)    une serie d'enqu8tes par sondage dans un certain nombre de communes et des
quartiers avant l'execution du projet ainsi qu'a mi-parcours. Ces enqutes aideront
A definir les besoins prioritaires de la population locale ainsi qu'& identifier les sous-
projets;
(b)    des reunions locales avant et apres l'ex6cution de sous-projets avec les chefs des
quartiers beneficiaires et des representants de groupes locaux. Ces rEunions
permettront d'exposer les principes et modes d'action de I'ATETIP ainsi quo les
objectifs des sous-projets et elles encourageront la population I entretenir les
ouvrages ou I continuer I assurer les services propres aux sous-projets; et
(c)    une campagne mediatique pendant toute l'execution du projet co qui permettra
d'insister sur l'importance de la sante et de l'assainissement ainsi quo sur les
avantages dEcoulant d'un comportement responsable et de pratiques hygieniques.
Travail n   kc
3.    Ces activites seront d6finies dans un plan d'action qui sera etabli par un sociologue sous la
supervision du Directeur G6nEral de I'ATETIP. Ce sociologue sera essentiellement charge:
(a)    d'organiser et de prEparer les enquetes par sondage, c'est-a-dire d'Eiaborer la
mEhode de sondage, l'identification de 1'6chn0lon, la conception du questionnaire,
la formation des enq#teurs et l'analyse des r6sultats de l'enqu&e;
(b)    d'organiser des reunions locales. L'expert preparera cs r6unions en preant des
contacts avec les principaux chefs et representants des quartiers selectionnEs afin
d'obtenir leur soutien. Plus pr6cisement, il ddfinira les programmes, ideniffiera les
orateurs, pr6parera les documents appropries I distribuer, organisera toutes les
activitEs jugees necessaires pour promouvoir la participation commu t et



36
-2-
etablira les proces-verbaux des reunions. Si necessaire, il participera aux discussions
et les animera;
(c)    d'elaborer les themes et messages de la campagne mediatique. Compte tenu de la
popularite des emissions radiophoniques, I'expert determinera le moment optimal
auquel on pourra toucher l'ensemble de la population et preparera des messages
simples et concis rdpondant aux preoccupations de la population locale. I prenra
egalement des dispositions pour faire passer periodiquement I la telvision des
messages illustrant les travaux de 1'ATEIlP et autres faits marqu     invenus
durant l1execution du projet. II prEpaera differents projets d'affiches, mettan
I'accent sur differents themes relatifsa  l'hygibne, I un environnement salubre, etc.
n1 recommandera des logos & d'autres fins promotionnelles (T-shirts, caqettes, etc.);
(d)    d'etablir, pour les activites susmentionnees, un calendrier d'execution compatible
avec celui de l'ensemble du projet;
(e)    d'identifier et de recommander si necessaire des firmes speclalsEes pout executer les
differentes activites prevues dans le plan d'action; et
(f)    d'identifler les indicateurs qui pourront etre utilises pour une evaluation annuelle de
1'efficacite du programme de participation communir.
Profe et duree
4.    Le sociologue devrait avoir: (a) une experience des methodes de communication approprios
au niveau communautaire; (b) une experience direc de l'execution et do I'analyse des enqutes, en
particulier des enquOtes ne correspondant pas I un modele prEabli, des compEtences en matiere de
formation pour former des enquteurs I cette methode; et (c) des aptitudes I la communication, en
particulier pour gaper la conflance des chefs locamx et transmetre des messages claire et simples
& 1'ensemble de la population. Vu la nature de son intevention, l'expert devra bien conna?tr les
coutumes et pratiques locales, ainsi que les principales langues locales.
5.    La duree des services de consultants est d'environ un an durant la periode du projet, avec une
intervention plus importante pendant la premibre annEe de l'execution du projet.
PARTCOM



37
ANNEX 3



38
CHAD
Public Works and Capacity Building Project
%
Conwonent                         1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  TOTAL FOREIGN
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Public Works                     0.71   1.41   2.12   ' _0    0.71   7.06    60.0%
TA to Contractors                0.32   0.48   0.32   0.1?   0.16    1.59   35.0%
Training for beneficiaries       0.03   0.05   0.03   0.03   0.02   0.16   50.0%
Community Participation          0.03   0.04   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.15   20.0%
Monitoring                       0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06    0.28   60.0%
Procurement Reform               0.20   0.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40    75.0%
Sub-total                        1.34   2.24   2.56   2.56   0.95   9.65   55.7%
Operating Costs                  0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.60          0.0%
Office Equipment                 0.20   0.05   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25   88.01
Base Costs                       1.66   2.41   2.67   2.67   1.07  10.49   53.3%
Price Contingencies              0.04   0.05   0.04   0.05   0.03   0.22    36.7%
PPP                              0.12   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12   60.0t
Total IDA Project                1.82   2.46   2.72   2.73   1.10  10.83    53.;%
Parallel-Financed Works          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.59   0.59   1.18   60.0%
Total ProPram Costs              1.82   2.46   2.72   3.31   1.69  12.00    53.7%
Public Works                     1.20   2.40   3.60    3.60    1.20  12.00   -60.0%
TA to Contractors                0.54   0.81   0.54    0.54    0.27    2.70    35.0%
Training for beneficiaries       0.06    0.08    0.06    0.06    0.03    0.28    50.0%
Community Participation          0.05    0.08    0.05    0.05    0.03    0.25   20.0%
Monitoring                       0.10   0.10   0.10    0.10    0.10    0.48    60.0%
Procurement Reform               0.34    0.34   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.68    75.0%
Sub-total                        2.28    3.80   4.34    4.34    1.62  16.39    55.7%
Operating Costs                  0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    1.01     0.0%
office Equipment                 0.33   0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.42    88.0%
Base Costs                       2.82   4.09   4.54   4.54   1.82  17.82    53.3%
Price Contingencies              0.07   0.08   0.07   0.09   0.05   0.37   36.7%
PPP                              0.21   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.21   60.0%
Total IDA Project                3.10   4.17   4.61   4.63   1.87  18.39   53.1%
Parallel-Pinanced Works          0.00   0.00   0.00   1.00   1.00   2.00   60.0%
Total Pro2ram Costs              3.10   4.17   4.61   5.63   2.87  20.39   53.7%



39
ANNEX 4



40
STATUTS DE VAGECE TCADENNE DBCUTION
DES TRAVAUX DqNTERET PUBLIC
(ATETIP)



41
2
STATUTS DE L'AGENCE TCHADiNNE D'EXECUTION
DES TRAVAUX D'INIERE PUBLIC
CHAWfl {
Artide I: CrEon et      on
n eat crd, conod ment aux lois et Wglemen en vigueur au Tcdad entre las
portsones ayant adhEres ax prEsent Statt, une asociation ddnommde Agenco
Tchadiemne d'Exdcutdon des Travaux d'IntdrAt Public' (ATETP) dsne ci-ar s.
sous le sigle ATETiP, I'Association* ou I'Agence."
.Alg3e 2: Objet
L'Agence a pour objet de firo executer des ravau  et services d'udli publique,
pour Is compte de pesons publiques (Collecavs Publiques et Asocitios
reconues d'utlite publique) salon des procedu   at techiqes qui maximlsent leur
effet ur l'emploi, facte  lEm rgece  et le renforcement des petits et moyes
eeu s  ME) locales at pourront eir do module au secteur public pour
ateindre des objes de m8mo ntre.
Le slbe do l'agence est fSx I NqDjamna
ridel 4: la Durde
La durEe de vie de l'Agence est Initialement fixde & 99 anes.
Article : Orga. d'admnlstraton et de dirion
Les organes da I    ation et de direction de l'Agence sont
- I'Assembde GnEral
- la Directon Gnrle
COMPOZN=
Arcle 6.: Membr
L'Agnce eat compos&E:
a) Des membres  hdar qul sont:
1.    I Comltde liWm des                Non Go      _es
(ONG) oeuvrant au Tdad;



42
3
2.    Le Conseil Nadonal du Patronat Tchadien;
3.    La STEE;
4.    La Chambre Consulaire du Tchad.
b) Des nouveaux membres adherents qui sont admis selon la procddure prevue
I I'Article 7 ci-aprts;
c) Du Directeur General de l'Agence qui est membre de droit.
Aticle 7: AdhEsion
L'adhdsion de nouveaux membres se fait par cooptation sur proposition d'un membre,
adressde au Pr6sident.
Cette proposition est presentee par le President I I'Assemblde Generale, quli statue
dans les quinze jours qui suivent la date de rdception de la proposition d'adhesion.
La decision d'admission est prise par l'Assemblee GEnerale I Ia majorit6 des 2/3 de
ses membres.
&ic1 8: Pale de la Qualite de Membre
La qualite de membre de l'Agence se perd par:
*     demission regulierement signifiee au Prdsident
*     deces pour en ce qui concerne les personnes physiques
3     dissolution en ce qui concerne les personnes morales; et
3     radiation, pour motif grave, prononcde par 1'Assemblde GEnErae  la
majorite de 3/4 de ses membres. L'interesad syant t invite par let.e
recommandde I fournir des explications.
CHAPITEM   RSSOURC
Artcle:  Les Ressources
Les ressources de l'Agence sont constituees:
a)    des cotisations annuelles de ses membres, fixees I cinq miXle (.5.000) Francs
CFA, k verser avant le 31 janvier de chaque annEe;
b)    des fonds, subventions et/ou liberalites provenant du Gouvernement du Tchad
et/ou de personnes publiques (Collectivit6s Publiques et Associations
reconmnes d'utilite publique) etWou de tout organisme ou pays eranger;
c)    du produit des prestations effectuees pour l'executlon des travaux
entrant dans le cadre des objectifs de l'Agence;
d)    du produit des emprunts;
e)    du produit du placement des fonds disponibies; et
t)    des dons et legs non assortis de conditions contraires aux objectifs de
I'Agence.



43
4
CHAPITRE IV  L'ASSEMBLEE GEN           LE
&1cle I1: Composition
L'Assembl6e G6n6ra}e est composEe des representants accredites des membres de
l'Agence I raison d'un repr6sentant par membre.
La participation I lAssemblee Generale ne donne droit i aucune r _mnEat
Article II: Pfidence de l'AssemblEe GdnErale
L'Assemblee Generale elit son bureau compose d'un President, et d'un Vice Prdsident
I la majoritE des 2/3 des membres presents pour un mandat d'un an.
Le Directeur GEnEral est membre de droit du bureau dont il assure l Secretariat.
L'Assemblee GEndrale peut mettre fin au mandat du President par dEcision prise I la
majorite des 2/3;
La fonction du President ne donne droit I aucune renmneration et est limit ee;
*     t la presidence de seances de l'Assemblee Generale;
-     I la convocation des seances de l'Assemblee Generale;
*     aux propositions d'admission des nouveaux membres;
*     miax communications des procbs-verbaux de reunions;
-     I la notification de la revocation du Directeur Genral;
*      t& la realisation des formalitEs lEgales ou reglementaires indispensables pour
conf6rer I l'Association la capacit6 juridique.
La presidence de I'Assembl6e G6nerale ne peut ktre assur6e par le Directeur G6nEal.
12: Les Pouvoirs de I'Assemblee GdnErale
L'AssemblEe est l'organe supr8me de l'Agence. Elle fixe les orientations de lAgence
en vue de la realisation de l'objet social (cf article 2) de l'Association, veille I lour
rEalisation, nomme et rEvoque le Directeur General, nomme le Commissaire mcx
comptes, et approuve les comptes de l'Agence, tenus par le Dircteur GEal, au
moins deux fois par an au 30 juin et au 31 dEcembre etant entendu que la premiere
annee, 1'exercice pourra avoir une durde infeure & 6 mobs.
L'Assemblee Generale dElbgue I'ensemble de ses pouvoirs au Directeur GEnra qui
en rend conmpte chaque trimestre par un rapport des activitds de l'Association selon le
modble de rapport prdvu au Mauel des ProcEdures de l'Association.
ArleI 13: Fouctionnemnent
L'Assemblee se r6unit sur convocation de son President ou du Directeur GEnEa an
moins une fois par semestre et en tant que de besoin. Les convocations
de documents de la r6union, sont envoy6ea au moins 15 jours I l'avance par letre
recomma4ndEe avec accuse de rEception ou par cabier de transmission, Inquant la



44
5
date, le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la reunion. En cas d'urgenco le President ou le
Directeur Oeneral peut valablement convoquer }'Assemblee GEnerale sans dtai.
L'Assemblee Generale peut tre convoqu*E en seance extraordmaire, I la demande
d'au moins le tiers de ses membres.
Un membre de I'Agence peut domenr procuration ecrite I un autre membre de
I'Agence A 1'effet de le representer aix r6unions de l'Assemblee Generale. Aucun
iembre ne peut denir plus d'une procuration.
L'Assembl6e GEnerale peut admettre I ses seances toute personne dout elle estime la
prEsence necessaire.
L'Assemblee Generale ne delibbre valablement qu'en presence des 2/3 des membres
de I'Association.
Les decisions de l'Assemblee Gen6rale sont prises I la majorite des 2/3 des membres
de l'Agence presents ou representes. La voix du PrEsident en cas de partage de voix
est prdpondErante.
Le Directeut GEnEral est tenu de rediger apres chaque sEance un proces-verbal de ia
rEion de l'Assemblee Generate.
CEHAPIRE V LA DIRCTION GENERALE
Article 14: Nominaton et Rhvocation du DirecteW GEnEral
L'Assemblee Generate nomme le Directeur GEneral I la majorite des 3/4 des membres
fondateurs ou nouveaux adherents (cf. alinda (a) et (b) de I'Ardcle 5).
En cas de manquement grave I ses obligations, le Directeut GeneraI peut fre
rdvoque. L- decision de rEvocation est prise par I'Assemblee G6nrtae I la majorite
des 3/4 des membres prdsents ou representes k I'exclusion du Direceur Gdndral qui
ne participe pas au vote.
A cette meme sdance, et avant toute autre dEcision, I'Assemblee GnEate elt un
Directeur Gendral intdrimaire parmi le personnel dirigeant de l'Agence et pour une
duree n'excEdant pas trois mois.
Le Directeur GEnEral Intmare est elu aumx conditions de majorite prdvues au
premier alinEa ci-dessus.
La rEvocation est notifiee par le President au Directeur GEnEa rEvoqud par lettre
recommaondee.
La revocation ontratne d'office la porte do la qualite de membre de t'Agenlco.



45
6
Articg I: Attributions
La Direction Generale est l'organe qui regroupe sous I'autorite d'un Directeur Gdn&r
les services tecbniques administratifs et financiers necessaires b I'exdcution de la
mIssion de I'Agence et principalement  1'execution des contrats de malrise d'ouvage
dEldgue. conclus par l'Agence.
Le Directeur Gendral est lid  I'agence par UUn contrat approuvd par I'Asswmbld
Gnrale.
AtlI: Peuvofrs du Directeur GEnral
Sous reserve de ce qui est indiqud 4 I-Article 12 ci-dessus, le Directur General a les
pouvoirs les plus Etendus pour assurer le bon fonctionnement de l'Agence et pour
IPexdcution de la mission qui lui est confiee par l'Assemblee GEndrale.
11 agit dans les limites des prdsents Stauts, du Reglement Indrieur, et des conventions
engageant l'Agence.
Ii procde au recrutment du Personnel de l'Agence sur la base des citbres de
competence et de bonne moralitd.
Le Directtr GEneral peut confler I des consulants externes spdcialisds les missions
qui lul semblent necessaires pour l'exdcution des differentes tfches qui lui sont
assidgnes.
Le Directeur GenEal a l'entiere responsablid des fonds mis I sa disposition. It
ordonne les depenses, signe les contrats et les conventions de toute nature entrat dans
le cadre de I'accomplissement de la mission de l'Agence.
Ii doit terdr, conformdment aux nonnes comnptables gendralement admises et Ea
usages uniformdment appliques, les livres de comptos et les dossiers relatis I sa
gestion cans le respect du Manuel de Procddures.
Le Directeur General est charge de veiller A la bonne application du Rfglement
IntEricur.
CONMHMIS AMX COM=E
Artics 17: Nomination du Commissaire stu comptes
L'Assemblde GEnerale designe un Commissaire aux comptes choisi parmi les expers
comptables agrEEs par le Trdsor Public I l'extdrieur de lAgence.
Ce Commissaire devra examiner les comptes de l'Agence et en certifier la sincdrit et
la rdgularitC. Son mandat est dune durde de trois ans renouvelable.



46
7
DRSPOSOTIONS DIVERSES
hgeIgJ1S: Modification des Statuts et Dissolution de I'Agence
Les presews statuts no peuvent tre modifiEs quo par dEcision de l'Assembl6e
GEnerale Extraordinalre prise bh la majoritd des 3/4 de ses membres.
La dEcision de dissolution de l'Agence prse dans les mnies conditions.
Dans tous leas cas, la modification des stauts ou la dissolution de l'Agence supposent
pour etre effectif l'accord du gouvenment.
En cas de disso}ution de l'Agence, I'Assemblee Generate designe une persome
cearge de la liquidation des biens de l'Agence.
En cas de dissolution de l'Agence, I'actif disponible aprbs apurement du passif restera
la propriet6 du Gouvernement du Tchad.
hnkhI9: DElaato
Le PrEsident de l'Assembi6e GenErale constitutive est charge. de proceder aux
formalitds legales ou rdglementaires indispensables pour conferer I I'Agence la
captE juridique.
Fait I N'Djamena, le...
1vf....................
ReprW ant du Comite de Liaison
des ONG au Tchad
M .......................................
Reprsouant de la STEE
M .......................................
ReprEsentat du Conseil National du
Patronat Tchadien
M ......................................
ReprEsentar 4e la Chambre Consulaire du
Tchad
IFInWl



47
ANNEX 5



48
CONVENTION
LA REPUBLQUE DU TCHAD
et
L'AGENCE TCHADENNE D'EXECUlMON
DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC



49
2
CONVNION ENTRE
LA REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD ET L'AGENCE TCHADN  D'EXECUTION
DES TRAVAUX D'IN1ERET PUBLIC
Entre le Gouverement de la RWpublique du Tchad represente par le Ministre du Plan ag_st
au nom et pour le compte de l'Etat et appei6 dans cc qui suit "le Gouvernement", d'une part,
et
L'Agence Tchadienne d'Execution des Travaux d'lnitdrt Public (ATETIP), association i but
non lucratif, appelfe dans ce qui suit "I'Agence", repr&sent6e par son Directeur General,
d'autre part.
EXPOSE PRELIMINAIRE
1)    Le Gouvernement de Ia Republique du Tchad a d6cid6 d'entreprendre avec le concours
de ses partenaires au d6veloppement des Travaux d'Interet Public, appel6s dans cc qui
suit les TIP, en vue de:
a)    cr6er au moins a titte temporaire un nombre significatif d'emplois nouveaux le
plus rapidement possible;
b)    am6liorer, A travers I 'ex6cution de travaux, le savoir-faire de la main-d'oeuvre
employee, la competitivite des petites et moyennes entreprises chargees des
chantiers, ainsi que l'efficacite des institutions publiques impliquEes;
c)    exEcuter, pour le compte de beneficiaires, des travaux dont le resultat est
economiquement et socialement utile A des conditions de co8t et de qualite au
moins equivalentes aux travaux rEalisEs sous d'autres formes;
d)    demontrer la possibilite d'Elargir le champ d'application des travaux a haute
intensite de main-d'oeuvre et mettre au point des procedures qui pourraient ftre
reprises par le secteur public pour poursuivre des activites de memo nate; et
e) de mani6re generale, stimuler l'embauche du personnel non qualifie par les
entrepises de btnient, de travaux publics et de services de maintenance.
2)    En conformite avec la politique de desengagement de I'Etat, le Gouvernement a d6cide
de confer & I'Agence, I'execution de ces Travaux d'Intert Public, qui dEclare
l'accepter danm le respect de ses statuts et de la rtglementation en viguour et des
imperatifs du d6veloppement 6conomique et social du pays.
3)    Les deux parties conviennent que leurs relations sont regies par la pr6sente convention
ainsi que par les documents auxquels elles font reference ou ceux qui lui sQu annexEs
et que les differontes clauses s'interprEtent par r6ferences aux objectifs du projet, tels
qu'6nm6res dans Ie present pr6ambule.



50
3
4)    Le Gouvernement a conclu un accord avec l'Association Inteenationale de
D6veloppement (I'Association) concerant la mise en oeumm d'un projet de travam
d'int6rt public (d6crit A I'aimexe 2 dudit accord (le projet)).
Arkie 1: Objet
La prsente Convention a pour objet de dhterminer dans le cadre des objectif
fondamentaux des TIP:
1*    Ie domaine et les modalitEs d'intervention de l'Agence;
2*    Ie mode de fiancement des TIP;
3*    les moyens humains A mettre en oeuvre, et
4*    les obligations et avantages rciproques des parties.
,mi
DOMAINE - FINANCEMET - PROCEDURES
Article 2: Doemae d'Intervenon
Les Travaux d'lnt6r8t Public sont congus pour imtervenir notmment danm les domaines
et pour les prestations ci-aprts:
a)    Le domaine des travaux:
-     le drainage;
-     la r6habilitation d'infrasucme;
-     la constution d'edifices;
-     Il dlsensablement des routes et des rmes;
-     la renovation de bi_mes; et
-     la crEation et l'amEnement d'espaces verts.
b)    Le domaine des services:
le nettoyage du domaine public; et
Ia collecte des ordures mEa&.
Dans sa phase pr6liminaire, lo champ dtintevention des Travau d'hnftrEt Public est
limite a la ville de N'DjamEna, toutefis son champ d'intervention peut etre elargi A
d'autres circonscriptions ou collectivites tenitoriales delies ou non du Tchad.
L'Agence peut intervenir dans l'un ou l'autre des domaines pour d'autes prestations
que celles _6nres aux points (a) et (b) du prEsent Article. Dans cc cas I'acord du
Gouvernement doit etre pr6alablement acquis et les prestations doivent, dans tous les
cas, etre confonnes aux objectifs des TIP et aux missions de I'Agen.



51
4
Article 3: Fnncement et Utilsation des fonds
a)    Pour permettre A l'Agence d'ex6cuter sa mission en giral et plus particuliErement
son programme, le Gouvemnement et/ou les b6n6ficiaires mettent A la disposition de
l'Agence les ressources n6cessaires.
L'Agence peut recevoir 6galement des ressources provenant d'autres organismes ou
institutions en vue d'ex6cuter des TIP poursuivant des objectifs de meme nature que
ceux de l'Agence.
b)    Les fonds seront exclusivement utilises par l'Agence pour:
1*    1'execution des Travaux d'Int6ret Public;
2*    le fonctionnement et l'6quipement de l'Agence.
Toute utilisation des fonds pour le fonctionnement et l'1'ipement de 'Agence doit
prendre en compte l'imp6ratif d'une saine et rigoureuse gestion. Elle ne doit pas
exc6der les besoins de l'Agence.
Article 4: ModaiHtds de mise A disposition
Le Ministre charg6 du Plan mettra les fonds provenant de l'IDA ou d'autres baileurs
de fonds necessaires A Ia realisation des TIP A la disposition de l'Agence par versement
des fonds necessaires A chacun des TIP sur un compte sp6cial ouvert au nom de
l'Agence aupars d'une banque commerciale de la place. Ce compte sp6cial est g6rd par
le Directeur G6n6ral de l'Agence.
Article 5: Manuel de Proc6dures
Les activites de l'Agence seront g6r6es conformr6ment aux dispositions du Manuel de
Proc6dures annex6 a la prdsente Convention et considdr6es commne en faisant partie
integrante.
Le Manuel de Proc6dures ci-dessus vis6 d6finit les proc6dures administratives,
financi6res, comptables, et de passation des march6s. 11 d6termine Egalement lea
contr6les et leurs regles applicables aux activites de l'Agence.
Des la signature de la presente Convention, le Manuel de ProcYdur  devient
executoire.
Le Gouvernement stengage A prendre en cas de besoin les dispositions nEessaires pour
obtenir les derogations eventuelles au regard de la rEglementation relative A la
passation de marchEs publics que necessite l'application du Manuel de Proc6dures.



52
S
ATIMt II
PERSONNEL DE DIRECTION
Ade 6: Pouvoirs du DhJeteur Gienral
L'Agence est dirig6 par un Directeur General disposant de tous les pouvoirs de
direction et de gestion. Toute disposition des statuts qui limiterait les pouvoirs du
Directeur General est rEputee non crite.
It doit notamment et conformnment au Manuel de Procedures ci-dessus vise:
-     recevoir directement des beneficiaires des propositions de TIP;
-     examiner et evaluer lesdits projets afin de verifier leur eligibiite;
-     selectionner les projets a realiser;
-     mettre en oeuvre les procEdures visant a la selection des entreprises
attributaires des marches dont l'Agence est maitre d'ouvrage delegue;
-     passer les marches et commandes;
-     superviser et controler et/ou faire superviser et contrWler I execution des
travaux confies aux entreprises;
-     payer les entreprises;
-     proceder aux rEceptions provisoires et definitives des ouvrages;
-     proc&der a la remise des ouvragesa A a collectivite delEgante.
mT m
OBLIGATIONS ET AVANTAGES RECIPROQUES DES PARTIES
Arfie 7: Nomination et REvocation du Dhrectew G6nEra
Le Directeur General est obligatoirement une personne physique. II est nomme
conformEment aux statuts de l'Agence sur proposition du Ministere charg6 du Plan,
accept6e par le Gouvernement A l'issue d'une procedure d'appel a la candidature.
Le Directeur General ne peut etre revoque que conform6ment aux dispositions
statutaires de l'Agence. Celte revocation peut intervenir a la denmnde du
Gouvemement ou apres son accord si elle est demandee par l'AssemblEe Generale. Le



53
6
Gouvemement lie peut demander la rEvocation du Directeur qu'en raison de
manquement graves d0ment constatEes, A ses obligations.
Arffl &Obligations du Gouvennemet
Le Gouvernement reconait le caractere d'utilite publique des TIP; il prendra en
consequence les textes lEgislatifa et reglementaires qui confArent a l'Agence ce
caractare.
Le Gouvernement s'engage A d6leguer A I'Agence la maltrise d'ouvrage des TIP
Le gouvernement s'engage A prendre les dispositions necessaires pour autoriser les
beneflciaires A deleguer a l'Agence la maitrise d'ouvrage dont elles sont tiues a
propos des travaux a realiser danm le cadre du projet.
Artd 9: Avantages consentis par le Gouvennnt A I'Agence
En raison du caract&re d'utilit6 publique des TIP, le Gouvernemen accorde a
l'Agence:
-     l'exon6ration de tout droit, taxe, ou prelevement d'effet Equivalent, applicables
A l'importation des matEriaux, materiels, 6quipements, vehicules de tout type,
carburants et lubrifiants, importes ou acquis au Tchad et nEcessaftes au
fonctionnement de l'Agence;
*     l'exemption de tout imp6t, taxe, ou prelevement d'effet eqwvalent, do par
I'Agence en sa qualite d'employeur, sur les traitements, salaires, ideinit6s
Emoluments et autres avantages vers6s i ses personnels et employes;
-     I'exemption de tout droit d'enregistrement et de timbres dfis au titre
d'opErations effectues pour le compte de l'Agence; et
-     les avantages que le Gouvernement accorde ou viendrait A accorder aux ONG.
Arjje 10: Avantages particuliers consentis par le Gouvernement an profit des
entreprims
Outre les avantages consentis au titre de l'Article 9 ci-dessus, le Gouvemement
s'engage A prendre en charge, directement ou sous forme d'exoneration, lea droits et
les taxes en vigueur ou tout autre impot et taxe de meme nature qui s'y substituerajent,
des par les entreprises au titre des marchEs qu'elles executent pour l'Agence.
Le Gouvernement s'engage a prendre en charge sous forme d'exoneration tout droit,
taxe, ou prOievement d'effet equivalent, applicables A l'importation des matEriaux,
materiels et Equipements devant etre incorpores au domaine public ou dans le
patrimoine des bEnEficiaires des TIP.



54
7
Toutefois, le b6nEfice de ces exonerations ne sera accorde que pour les produits,
materiaux et equipemens qui ne soot pas fabriques au Tchad.
Ardde 11: ExonUraUonIs
Un afrte du Ministre charge des finances rendra oxEcutoires les exonerations prEvues
aux Articles 10 et I1 ci-dessus, a compter de la date de 1'entrEe en vigueur de la
convention.
ArkiZe12: Obligadons de l'Agence
L'Agence s'engage a r6aliser intEgralement et correctement sa mission. Elle s'oblige i
executer les TlP dont la maItrise d'ouvrage lui est de6lguee, conformEment A la
convention conclue avec le beneficiaire et au Manuel de ProcEdures ci-dessus vise et
dans le respect des normes comptables, des usages et procddures administratives en
vigueur au Tchad.
Elle est notamment chargEe de:
recevoir, evaluer et le cas ech6ant selectionner les operations soumises par leas
organisnme et collectivites beneficiaires du projet;
-     passer les marchEs et conmandes;
-     procEder au choix des maitres d'oeuvre qui doivent preparer les dossiers
techniques d'appels d'offres et d'execution, superviser et contr6ler les travaux.
-     payer les ontrepdses;
-     receptionner les ouvrages et 6valuer les services fournis.
Elie s'engage A executer les travaux a des conditions de codt et de qualite au moins
equivalents A ceux rEalisEs sous d'autres formes.
L'Agence s'engage a fournir au Gouvernement et A toute institution ou organisme
designe par lui tous rapports ou documents relatifs A sa gestion et A celle des projets
qu'elle r6alise.
L'Agence s'engage a tusmettre au Gouvernement un compte rendu timestriel
d'activite dEtaill6 et mettant notamment en relief le nombre d'emplois cr66s, le nombre
et la taille des entreprises impliqu6Es.
L'Agence est soumise aux verifications comptables exercEes a posteriori par le
Gouvernement sur les organismes beneficiant de son concours financier, confomEment
A la arglementation en vigueur. Cependant les modalites pratiques de ces vErifications
ne doivent pas gener le bon fonctionnement des services de l'Agence.



55
8
Ard ti3: Oboligons AddIoes de I'Agce
a)    IAgence: i) prend toutes mesures nkessaires pour que le Projet soit exewte avec la
diligence et lIefficacit6 voulues, conform6ment A des mithodes financires,
administratives, techniques et dting6nierie appropri6es, et compte dOment tenu des
cteurs cologiques et environementaux; ii) respecte les dispositions relatives A la
temue de comptes et Ecritures, A l'audit desdits comptes et ecriltres et a la prEsentation
des documents ewpsE  A I'Article IV de l'Accord de CrEdit de D6veloppement;
iii) applique le systeme de comptabilit6 etabli confoim6ment A la Section 6.02 (e) de
I'Accord de CrEdit de D6veloppement, assorti des modifications qui pourraient etre
arrWtes d'un commun accord avec I'Association; et iv) engage et maintient un auditeur
indEpentint dont les qualifications, I'exp6rience et le mandat sont juges acceptables par
l'Association.
b)    I'Agence conduit ses operations dans de bonnes conditions de codt et d'efficacit6, et
_e     periodiquement la structure de ses codts administratifs avec le Gouvernement
et l'Association.
c)    i)    I'Agence affecte en permanence aux postes de directeur general, directeur
technique et directeur fmancier des personnes dont l'experience, les
qualifications et le mandat sont juges acceptables par I'Association.
ii)   I'Agence met a jour au moins tous les six mois sa liste des entrepreneurs et des
consultants sasfst aux criteres du Manuel de ProcEdures.
d)    I'Agence informe rapidement le Gouvernement et l'Association de toute situation qui
compromeatrait ou menacerait de compromettre: i) I'avancement du Projet ou de tout
Sous-Projet, ii) la rEalisation des objectifs du CrEdit, iii) le respect par l'Agence des
obligations lu inombant au titre de la Convention, ou iv) le respect par l'Agence ou
l'une quelcodque des Etreprises d'ExEcution des obligations leur incombant
respecivement au titre de l'un quelconque des Accords de Sous-Projet.
e)    I'Agence fournit A I'Association et a le Gouvernement : i) au plus tard le trentieme jour
suivant la fin de chaque trimestre de son exercice, un rapport sur ses activites au cours
iudit tdmestre, dont la tenewr et le degre de detail auront EtW raisonnablement fixes par
le Gouvernement et par I'Association; et ii) au plus tard trois mois aprns la Date de
Cl6ture, un rapport r6pondant aux conditions fixEes pour les rapports d'achevement
dans la Section 9.06 (c) des Conditions G6nerales.
f)    i)    I'Agence execute en totalit6, au plus tard le 30 mun 1995, le programme de
Sous-Projets devant etre finance au moyen du Credit et convenu avec
l'Association conformEment la Section 6.01 (c) de IAccord de Crdit de
DEveloppement (y compris les modifications qui pourrament lui 8tre apport6es
d'un comm  accord avec I'Association).
ii)   I'Agence : x) soumet A P'Association, pour approbation, au plus tard le 30 avril
1995, le programme des Sous-Projets proposEs devrant etre finance au moyen
du CrEdit et repr6sentant un coat esfimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; y)



56
9
adopte, au plus tard le 31 aoat 1995, un programme de Sous-Projets, devant
etre financ6 au moyen du Cr6dit et juge acceptable par l'Association,
represenant un cofit estimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; et z) exEcute en
totalit6, au plus tard le 30 juin 1996, ledit programme de Sous-Projets (y
compris les modifications qui pourraient lui 6tre apportEes d'un commun
accord avec l'Association).
iii)   I'Agence: x) soumet A l'Association pour approbation, au plus tard le 30 avril
1996, un programune de Sous-Projets proposes devant etre financEs au moyen
du Credit et reprEsentant un cost estimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; y)
adopte, au plus tard le 31 aoet 1996, un programme de Sous-Projets, devant
etre finance au moyen du CrEdit et juge acceptable par l'Association,
representant un cofit estimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; et z) execute en
totalite, au plus tard le 30 juin 1997, ledit programne de Sous-Projets (y
compris les modifications qui pourraient lui etre apportees d'un commun
accord avec l'Association).
iv)   l'Agence: x) soumet a l'Association pour approbation, au plus tard le 30 avril
1997, un programme de Sous-Projets proposEs devant tre finance au moyen
du Credit et reprEsentant un cotit estimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; y)
adopte, au plus tard le 31 ao&t 1997, un programme de Sous-Projets, devant
wtre finance au moyen du Cr&Iit et juge acceptable par I'Association,
reprEsentant un cotit estimatif global de 2.750.000 dollars; et z) execute en
totalite, au plus tard le 30 juin 1998, ledit programme de Sous-Projets (y
compris les modifications qui pourraient lui etre apport6es d'un commun
accord avec l'Association).
g)    I'Agence execute, au plus tard le 30 juin 1998, un programme de Sous-Projets (outre
les Sous-Projets finances au moyen du Credit) representant un codt global Equivalant A
1.000.000 de dollars, dont: i) des Sous-Projets reprEsentant un co6t global equivalant
au moins & 250.000 dollars devant etre acheves au plus tard le 30 juin 1995; ii) des
Sous-Projets additionnels reprEsentant un coat global equivalant au moms a 250.000
dollars devant etre acheves au plus tard le 30 juin 1996; iii) d'autres Sous-Projets
additionnels repr_sentant un codt global equivalant au moms a 250.000 dollars devant
etre acheves au plus tard le 30 juin 1997; et iv) d'autres Sous-Projets additionnels
reprEsentant un coakt global equivalant au moins A 250.000 dollars devant etre acheves
au plus tard le 30 juin 1998.
hi)   I'Agence adopte, au plus tard le 30 juin de chaque annEe, le programme de formation A
appliquer au cours des 12 mois suivants pour l'execution des Parties B. 1 et B.2 du
Projet, lequel programme est juge satisfaisant par l'Association et tient compte des
besoins identifies au cours de l'execution du programme de formation de l'annEe
pr6cEdente.
i)    I'Agence met A jour, au plus tard le 30 juin de chaque annme, d'une maniere jugee
acceptable par l'Association, son programme d'action pour accrottre la participation
communauraire dans le cadre de la Partie B.3 du Projet, ladite mise A jour tenant



57
10
compte des besoins identifiEs au cours de l'ex6cution de ladite Partie du Projet au cours
de l'annEe pr6c6dente.
j)    l'Agence exEcute les Parties B et C du Projet conform6ment a un plan d'activite juge
acceptable par l'Association et par le Gouvernement.
k)    I'Agence se charge pour le Gouvernement de la passation de tous les marchEs de
fournies et de services dcs ires A I'ex6cution de la Partie D du Projet.
1)    I'Agence:
i)    s'assure aupres d'assureurs dignes de conflance, ou de prendre d'autres
dispositions jugees satisfaisantes par l'Association en vue de s'assurer, contre
tous risques et pour tous montantS conformes 1 une saine pratique de
l'assurance;
ii)    gere sos op6rations et sos affaiirs conformEment a de bonnes m6thodes
fancires, administrives, techniques et d'ingEnierie, sous la supervision de
cadres de direction qualifies et experimentes secondes par du personnel
comEtent en nombre suffisant; et
iii)   exploite et entretien en permanence ses Equipements, machines, materiels et
autres biens, et de proc6der, dans les meilleurs delais, a toutes les r6parations
et A tous los renouvellements nEcessaires conformement a de bonnes pratiques
techniques et financieres.
m)    I'Agence satisfait aux conditions de la Section 3.05 de l'Accord de CrEdit de
DEveloppement en ce qui conceme l'examen de l'execution du Projet et des mesures
connexes.
n)    I'Agence rembourse au Gouvement tous fonds du CrEdit non utilises pour
l'exacution du Projet, a moins que le Gouvernement et I'Association n'en conviennent
AMe14: Obliaoiw Addiionnelles du Gouvernement
Le Gouvereent:
a)    met i la disposition de l'Agence 100 % des ressources ncessaires A I'execution des
Sous-Projets vises dans l'Article 13(g) (sans utiliser aucun financement provenant de
l'Association pour des crEdit- de projets d'invesissement); et
b)    verse A I'Agence des fonds equivalent A 1.000.000 de dollars conformement aux
dispositions des Sections 3.03 et 6.01 (g) (ii) de l'Accord de Credit de Developpement.



58
11
A     1tie: Dissolution de l'Agence
La d6cision de dissolution doit &tre s'nunise a l'approbation pr6alable du
Gouvernement.
La designation de la personne charg6e de la liquidation de l'Agence doit 6tre entWrinde
par l'Etat.
Ai_d_e 16: Modification des Statuts
Les Statuts de l'Agence ne pourront Otre modifits qu'avec l'accord pr6alable du
Gouvemement.
Article 17: Enhtre en vigueur de la convendon
La pr6sente Convention entre en vigueur a compter de la date de sa signature par les
deux parties. Bile peut etre modifie d'un commun accord par le Gouvernement et
l'Agence.
Le Gouvernement s'engage A parachever les mesures d'ordre lEgislatif ou rbglementaire
relatives aux avantages consentis a l'Agence trois mois au plus tard apres l'entr6e en
vigueur de la convention.
Fait a N'Djam6na, le
POUR LE GOUVERNEMEENT DE LA                    POUR L'AGENCE
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD
LE MNSTRE DU PLAN                              LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL,
ET DE LA COOPERATION                           ATETIP
CONV-WRD.CHD



59
ANNEX 6



60
ATETIP
REGLEMENT INTERIEUR



61
2
AThTIP - TCHAD
REGLEMENT INTERIEUR
DISPOSITIONS GENERALES
Ardde I
Le present Reglement Interieur est etabli conform6ment aux dispositions des Stauts de
I'Agence Tchadienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'lnt6r6t Public (ATETIP), d6nomm6e
dans ce quli suit 'l'Agence".
Sans prEjudice de la reglementation en vigueur, le Reglement lntrieur dEtermine:
l'organigramme de I'Agence;
-     les modalit6s de recrutement du personnel;
-     l'orgnisation du travail;
-     la discipline;
-     les conditions de rEsiliation des contrats de travail; et
-     les mesures relatives au respect des rbgles d'hygiene et de scurite sur les
lieux de travail.
le 2: Domaine d'applcation
Le prEsent Reglement est applicable A tout employ6 et l'Agence.
Lors de son recrutement l'employ6 declare avoir pris connaissance du Rfglement
Interieur qui fait l'objet d'affichage selon la reglementation en vigueur.
Les activites de l'Agence s'executent dans le respect des procEdures consignees dans
le Mamnel de Proc6dures.
L'ORGANISATION TECHNQUE
Ade3: O rme
L'Organigramme de l'Agence est annexe au present Reglement Int6rieur.
La Direction de l'Agence cotprend:
-     le Directwur GEral de l'Agence;
-     le Directeur Adminitatf et Financier; et
-     le Directeur Tecbnique.



62
3
Le Directeur G6n6ral assure, conform6ment aux dispositions des Statuts, I'ensemble
de la gestion de I'Agence.
Le Directeur Administratif et Financier est responsable, sous l'autorite du Directeur
G6neral, du fonctionnement des services administratif, financier, comptable et
juridique de l'Agence.
Le Directeur Technique, sous l'autorite du Directeur GEn6ral, administre les chantiers
et procbde i la reception des travaux. II est responsable, sous l'autorite du Directeur
GEnEral, de la conduite des Etudes de travaux r6alisEes par l'Agence.
CHAPITRE ImI
RECRUTEMNT
Ajde4: Contrat de Travail
Tout recrutement de personnel doit faire l'objet d'un contrat de travail sign6 entre le
Directeur GEnEral de l'Agence et le travailleur engag6. Le statut du travailleur sera
conforme A la reglementation en vigueur et notamment la convention collective.
Ce contrat comporte au moms les elEments suivants:
-     nature juridique du contrat (la dur6e deterzminde ou indeterminee);
-     noms, prenoms et adresse du travailleur;
-      iduree du contrat;
-     description du poste occupe; et
-     nature et montant des remunerations principales et accessoires accordees au
tavailleur (salaires, primes, indemnites et avantages).
Lors de la signature du contrat de travail le travaileur doit produire:
-     un extrait d'acte de naissance;
-     un certificat de visite mndicale Mtestant l'aptitude au travail;
-     un extrait de casier judiciaire eatant de moins de trois mois;
-     les pieces justificatives de situation de la tOmulle;
-     quatre photos d'identite; et
-     la declaration de non conflit d'int6rets vis6e a I'Article 7 ci-apres:
L'agence dent un dossier individuel par employe.
A ge S: ModaHltEs de recrutemnt
Tout recument est assorti d'une periode d'essai dont la duree est fix6e par le contrat
de travail en fonction de 1'emploi A occuper. Cette dur6e ne peut excEder la dur6e
16gale.



63
4
AIde 6: Classification - REmunon
La classification et la r6mun6ration du travailleur salari6 sont fixees en fonction du
poste a pourvoir, et selon les aptitudes reconnues conform6ment aux prescriptions
legales, r6glementaires et conventionnelles applicables aux travailleurs de la branche
concernee.
Arcle 7: DWclaration de non conflit d'Intr6rts
Le personnel de I'Agence ne peut detenir directement ou indirectement, aucun interet
ni exercer une quelconque responsabilite au sein d'institutions ou d'entreprises
publiques ou priv6es appelees A etablir ou entretenir des relations de quelque nature
avec I'Agence. 11 en est de mnem en ce qui concerne les institutions ou entreprises
b6n6ficiant des activites de l'Agence.
Le personnel de l'Agence ne peut en aucun cas percevoir des r6munerations,
commissions, honoraires, allocations ou avantage, en especes ou en nature de la part
des institutions ou entreprises publiques ou privEes evoquees au paragraphe precEdent.
Tout agent est tenu lors de son recrutement de signer une d6claration sur l'honneur
6tablissant la liste de ses engagements, interEts ou participations susceptibles de
contrevenir au principe de non conflit d'int6ret enonce au prEsent article.
II dispose d'un dElai d'un mois pour se lib6rer de tels engagements, interets ou
participations, sous peine de nullite de son recrutement.
Toute declaration intentionnellement fausse ou defaut de declaration entrainera d'office
le licenciement pour faute lourde de l'agent, sans prejudice des donmmages et int6r8ts
que l'Agence pourrait exiger.
CHAPrT= IV
L'ORGANISATION DU TRAVAIL
Article 8: Horaires de travai
La duree hebdomadaire de travail est conforme a la reglementation en viguelir.
Les horaires de travail ainsi que leurs modifications sont fixEs par le Directeur
G6nEral et affiches.
Ardcle 9: Hioes supp as
Toute heure travaillee en sus de la duree quotidienne fixee A I'Article 8 ci-dessus
constitue une houro supplementaire et ouvre droit a indemnite calculee selon la
rEglnent ation en vigueur.
Le personnel d'nadrement est exclu du bEnEfice des dispositions de I'alin6a
prdc6dent.



64
5
Les heures suppl6mentaires ne peuvent etre effectu6es qu'avcc I'accord de la
Direction.-
Akld 1   Absencu-Cong lErux
Apres une periode de pr6sence effective de douze (12) mois au sein de 1'Agence,
appelde, 'p6riode de r6ference", un droit A conge est acquis au travailleur. In
n'entragne pas d'office le d6padt en cong6 de l'intressC. La jouissance du droit A
conge est soumise a l'autorisation prealable de la Direction. Sous r6serve de
l'autorisation ci-dessus, le travailleur est tenu de jouir de ses droits A conge, qui ne
peuvent etre cumul6s deux ann6es cons6cutives.
Les Directeurs de services dressent le planning des d6parts en cong6s du personnel
plac6 sous leurs ordres. ls en informent le Directeur General.
deJI11: Absence-Mdies et Absences conventionnels
Le Directeur de service concerne est obligatoirement inform6 de toute absence.
Pendant les heures de travail, aucun travailler ne peut s'absenter de son poste, mmne
pour raison de service, sans l'autorisation de son sup6rieur hierarchique.
Par ailleurs:
les absences pour maladies sont justifites par un certificat d6livr6 par un
m6decin et d6pos6 dans les quarante huit (48) heures. L'Agence se reserve le
droit de faire proc6der A une contre-expertise.
-     les absences conventionnelles sont admises; elles doivent faire l'objet d'une
declaration prEalable A l'employeur.
Aldek 12: Autres cas d'Absence
* Les cas d'absence non couverts par les Articles 10 et 11 mais admis par le Code du
Travail suivent le regime legal en vigueur.
A3 taltenent des Salires
Le paiement des salaires est effectue le denier jour du mois, soit par virement
bancaire, soit par chlque.
Chaque paiement de salaire fait l'objet d'une remise de bulletin de salaire au
bEneficiaire.
Les demandes d'explication, de renseignements ou les reclamations relatives aux
salaires sont adressees au Directeur Administif et Financier par la voie
hi*archique.



65
6
liMBE V
DISCILE
Arle 14: Retards
Tout retard A ia prise du service doit etre justifie aupres du sup6rieur bi6archmique. A
l'appr6ciation du Directeur G6n6ral, un retard r6p&tA pourra etre considdr6 comme
excessif et donner lieu A une retenue de salaire suivant un barime etabli par le
Directeur G6nWral.
Artclle 15: Absences
Toute absence doit faire l'objet d'une autorisation pr6alable du sup6rieur hirarchrq
ou, a d6faut, d'un avais en cas d'impossibilit6 imm4diate.
AXricle 16: Comportememt, Accs amx locaux, Secret profeulome
L'employ6 doit 6viter tout comportemerit susceptible de perurber le travail dam les
locaux de l'Agence ou sur les lieux oTd il est appele A intervenir pour le compte de
cette derni6re.
L'acces aux locaux de l'Agence est interdit aux employes en dehors des heures de
service sauf autorisation expresse accord6e par la Direction pour raison de service.
L'acces aux locaux des personnes etrangeres a I'Agence n'est autoris6 qu' raison des
besoins du service. Les visites personnelles sont formellement interdites.
D'une maniere gEn6rale, 1'ensemble du personnel de l'Agence est soumis aux
obligations de r6serve, d'impartialit6 et de discipline similaires A celles qui s'mpouent
aux agents de l'Etat.
Les ouvriers et les chauffeurs sont tenus de ranger les outils, engins et vehicules apres
les heures de travail dans les lieux d6signes a cet effet par leur sup6rieur hi6rarcbique.
L'utilisation du mat6riel de l'Agence hors des heures de service ou leur utilisation
pour les besoins autres que ceux de service est strictement prohibEe.
Toutefois, le Directeur Gen6ral pourra autoriser l'utilisation de ce mat6riel A ie
exceptionnel en dehors des heures de service pour des raisons exdusivement
rattach6es aux missions de l'Agence.
11 est formellement interdit amx chauffeurs ou A tout conducteur d'un v6hicule de
I'Agence de transporter des personnes ou objets sans rapport avec le service.
En cas d'accident l'Agence decline toute responsabilite a l'Egard des tiers et se r6serve
les droits usuels de recours A 1'encontre des fautifs.



66
7
frid 17: Sanctionls
Les sanctions pr6vues pour infractions au pr6sent Reglement ltrieur sont dama
I'ordre croissant:
l'observation verbale sans mention au dossier individuel;
I'observation verbale avec mention au dossier individuel;
I 'avertissement;
le bl4me;
la mise A pied provisoire avec suspension du salaire; et
le licenciement.
A l'exception de l'observation verbale sans mention au dossier individuel les sanctions
sont consign6es au dossier individuel de l'employ6 mentionne A l'Article 4 ci-dessu.
Aile 18: Prononce de la mesure de sanction
Jusqu'au blame compris, la sanction est prise par le sup6rieur bifrarchique apres
infornaion du Directeur de service concerne. La mise a pied provisoire avec
suspension du slaire et le licenciement sont prononc6s par le Directeur G6neral.
Le Directeur General est r6guli6rement informe de toutes les sanctions prononc&s.
Ail2e 19: Requtes et r6damations
Les requEtes et reclamations sont pr6sent6es en premier lieu au superieur hice.
A defbut de r6ponse dans le delai d'un (1) mois ou si cette demitre n lui donne pus
satisfion, il appartient au travailleur de prEsenter dirctement sa requte ou
reclamation au Directeur GEnral. Les requetes ou rEclamations sont toujours
prEs6es par 6crit.
ClAPBE  VI
RUPTRtE DU CONTRAT DE TRAVAIL
Ad i2f: Dnsson
La demission et le licenciement sont soumis aux dispositions lEgales et rEglemeaue
en vigueur.
Arcde 21: Priavis
La partie qui prend l'initiative de la rupture du contrat doit observer I d61ai de
pr6avis prEvu par les dispositions legales et rEeI iri-es en vigueur.



67
8
HYGIENE ET SECURIT
Arfle 22: Conues dhygiene et de s6curlt6
Tout travailleur est tenu d'observer la r6glementation relative A la prevention des
accidents du travail et des maladies professionnelles en se conformant notamment ux
cosigns d'hygiene et de securte qui sont affich6es sur les lieux de travail.
AIVo: loaon des Consigm
Toute violation des consignes entraine ne sanction prevue i I Article 17 ci.desss.
~gM4:  Accdent du travail
Tout accident du travail impliquant un employ6 de lAgence ou un tiers doit mire
l'objet d'une declaration immdate au Directur Administratif et Fiancier de
I'Agence.
Le Directeur Administratif et Financier se charge des formalites sanitaires et des
dEmarcles aupres des organismes de securite sociale et societMs d'assurance
concernEes.
DISPOSITIONS DIVERSE
At. 25: Dfcaration et PubcIt
CnforMn aux dispositions lEgales et rEglemeiras en vigur. le prEsent
Rbglement Int6rieur sera communique aux travailleurs par voie d'affidcp et soumis
aux autoritEs comp_tentes.
Fait A N'DjamEna, Ie
Le Direcur GE6nd de I-Agece
"dsi



68
ANNEX 7



69
Constructon Cotecteur de Deib  (Chagoua)
Mairie de N'Djamena
1. Description Techniaue
Le projet consiste en la construction d'un collecteur en maronnerie (pierres taillees, briques cuites) le
long des 700 metres d'une voie prioritaire de p6netration d'un quartier dont le drainage n'est pas
assur6.
2. Elements du coi
Le coat estim6 de ce projet est de 85.000.000 FCFA dont 60% pour les materiaux.
3. Situation sans Projet
La zone de Demb6 se situe dans le quartier Chagoua qui est peupl6 en majorite de jemu   cadres, de
p-eus  et quelques eleveurs de porcins. Le probleme fondamental est que le quartier est situ6 dars
une cuvette. En saison des pluies, les eaux s'accumulent dans les bas fonds et inondent tout le quartier
causant ainsi des morts et de nombreux d6gats mat6riels. En 1988, on a dEplord 30 morts et 10.000
sans abri. Les fortes pluies du mois d'aoat 1991 ont occasionne 61 morts et 3026 chambres ecroulees
et cette annee trois personnes ont ete tuWes par I'ecroulement de leur habitation. Aussi, la stagnation
des eaux apres les pluies met le quartier dans une situation santire pr6caire.
4. BW6ficiaire du Projet et b6nefices attendus
Le b6neficiaire est la Mairie de N'Djam6na. La rEalisation de ce projet permettra le drainage des eaux
pluviales et contribuera a l'am6lioration des conditions d'hygiene de 130.000 habitants dans les
quartiers de Demb6, Chagoua, Amkoundjara ot Amtoukoui par la suppression des nuiances et la
protection des 6.500 concessions environnantes.
5. Part de main d'oeuvre sur le coat total du Proiet
La xnain d'oeuvre absorbe 35% du coOt estim6 du projet.
6. Oportnite economique et social
La constiction du collecteur occupe une place de choix parmi les prionites du quartiar. Avec un
investissement de 85.000.000 FCPA et un codt annuel d'entretien de 1.000.000 FCFA, il sera possible
d'viter les couts causes par les inondations, dont seulement les d6gfUts materiels sur le patrimoine
immobilier s'6tevent a 40.000.000 FCFA par an. Le taux de rentabilit6 interne de cet hwesv s_
est de 60%.



70
2
REhabiation Centre Sodal n 2
MNIstbre des Affah,es Sodales
1. Description Teconique
Le Centre Social n 2 est une structure qui abrite des salles de consultations prenatales,
d'alphabEtisation, d'education familiale et une 6cole maternelle. Une partie du Centre est construte en
magmonerie et l'autre partie en terre argileuse. La toiture est en tWle onduldee avec un faux plafond. Les
fermetures sont en memuiserie m6tallique. Les travaux i rEaliser sont les suivants:
-     reprise de certains points de Ia ma;onnerie,
-     reprise de la peinture,
-     reprise de la toiture,
-     reprise de la plomnberie,
-     reprise de la menuiserie bois et metallique
-     reprise de l'etancheit6,
-     construction de deux salles de classe,
-     construction de latrines A fosses ventilees,
-     construction d'une cl6re en parpaings.
2. El6ments du coats
Le collt est estime a 32.000.000 PCFA dont 65% pour le gros oeuvre.
3. Situation sans Projet
Les salles presente  toutes des defauts qui pourraient conduire A la rine totale de l'ouvrage
(fisuration des murs et de la chape, flcissenent et pern6abilit6 de la toiture etc.). Le Minister
serait donc conduit a construire un nouveau centre danm un dMlai de cinq ans au plus, ou A intefrompre
lea services assurEs par le centre.
4. B&iciaire du Projet et ben6fices attendus
Le b6n6fciaire du projet est le Ministere des Affirea Sociales. La frquentation du cere est de
16.420 personnes par an, distribu6es de la faion suivante:
-     vaeres enceintes:    200 par mois
meres allaitantes:  750 par mois
-     enfants d6nutris:    150 par mois
-      cas socaux:         250 par mois
-     Ecole maeneile:      120 ecoliers par an
-     alp0saton            100 femmes par an



71
3
La r6alisation des travaux ameliorera les conditions de travail des infirmiires, des assistances sociales
et des 6leves. Aussi elle mettra fin au danger que pourrait constituer l'ecroulement de certaines salles.
5. Part de main d'oeuvre sur le cofit total du Protet
La main d'oeuvre absorbera 9.000.000 FCFA soit 28% du coQt global avec 60 journ6es de travail.
6. ODortit6 fconomique et ociale
La rehabilitation du centre permetra d'augmenter la capacit6 d'accueil des 6coliers, r6duira les cofits
d'entretien et evitera les coOts de constrution d'un nouveau centre dane quate ans. Le taux de
rentabili  interne de cet invetisement est de 20%.
Rhabliation Canveau Avenue De Gaulle
Mahie de N'Djamndna 
.  o     on Techniue
Le projet consiste a r6habiliter un caniveau manonn6 drainant les eaux le long de 1160 metres de l'une
des voies principales de N'Djam6na. Le travail se fera au niveau des tronsons obtures par le sable et
les dechets et au niveau des tronons d6grades par la pouss6e des torres.
2. Elements du coft
Le coOt estime du projet est de 40.000.000 FCFA dont 60% pour les mateiaux.
. Suitution sans Projet
Apr,s les pluies, les eaux stagnent pendant plusieurs jours bloquant ainsi la circulation et provoquant
des problemes d'hygiene. En outre la stagnation des eaux provoquent la dEgradation progressive de la
cbaussEe.
4. Bn6ficiaire du rolet et befices attendus
Le bEnficiaire est la Mairie de N'DjamEna. La rEhabilitation de ce caniveau asura le drainage des



72
4
eaux et une hygiene de vie convenable pour 67.500 personnes en 3.500 concessions, ainsi que la bonne
circulation des habitants et la p6rennit6 de la chauss6e.
S. Part de main d'oeuvre sur le cotit total du Proiet
La main d'oeuvre absorbera 35% du cost du projet.
6. Onportnit6 economique et sogiale
La r6habilitation du caniveau aura des effets positifs sur les conditions de vie des habitants, reduira les
co8ts d'entretien et evitera la destruction de la chauss6e ainsi que les autres colits causes par les
imndations Le taux de rentabilt iterne du projet est de 29%.
EAtmten des chaussd_    bitund.
Maine de N'Djam3na
1. Desmcrtion Tehniqe
Le projet consiste a fermer des nids de poule et A apporter un traitement bicouche au r6seau de 2.645
mitres de chaussees bitum6es de N'Djam6na, pour l'imperm6abiliser et 11i redonner un niveau de
service acceptable.
2. Elements du colt
Le coOt du projet est estime a 40.000.000 FCFA dont 75% pour les materiaux.
3. Sitation sans Proet
L'etade ed0graation des chaussEes entraine non seulement l'inconfort et l'ins6curite mais aussi
pourrait conduire a moyen terme i la mise hors d'usage. Cet 6tat est aussi en partie la cause des coOts
6leves d'exploitation des v6hicules.
4. B6nEficiaire du Procjt et BWnefices attendus
Le b6Enficiaire est la Maire de N'Djaumna. La realisation de cc projet aura pour impact:
-      iune amelioration du confort et de la s6curite des usagers,



73
une diminution des coats d'exploitalion des vEhicuWes,
-     une riduction des nuisances.
5. Part de Main d'oeuvre sr le cogt total du Prolet
La main d'oeuvre est estim6 A 20% du codt total du projet.
6, Opporite Economiue et sociale
Le projet va apporter une importante diminution des cofits d'exploitation des vWhicules, et we
diminudon des miisances que peuvent causer la poussi6re. Le taux de rentabiit6 intetne du projet eat
de 25%. La construction d'une chaussEe neuve bitun6e de nm&es dimensions en voiric urbaine aurat
un codt de 343.850.000 FCFA.



74
ANNEX 8



75
AGENCE TCHADIENNE D'EXECUTION
DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC
(ATETEP)
EXCERPT from the
MANUEL
DE
PROCEDURES'
I Ie Mana of Proces is avlcae sepmately as a self-conad docmt



76
PROJET DE TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC
MANUEL DE PROCEDURES
Table des Matieres
SECTION I - PRINCIPES DEONTOLOGIQUES GENERAUX APPLICABLES AUX
ACTIVITES DE L'AGENCE
1. 1. Rappel des objectifs de l'Agence
1.2. Principes de reference
1.3. Conflit d'int6r&ts
1.4. Obligations du personnel de I'Agence vis-a-vis de l'ext6rieur
SECTION II - PROCEDURE DE SOUMISSION DES SOUS-PROJETS A L'AGENCE PAR
LES BENEFICIAIRES
; t. Qualite des b6neficiaires
1).2. Informations a fournir lors de la soumission des sous-projets
11.2.1. Sur le Ben6ficiaire
11.2.2. Sur le sous-projet presente
11.3. Criteres dWeigiibilMt
11.4. Evaluation des sous-projets
11.4.1  Grille d'evaluation
11.4.2 Commission de selection des sous-projets
1.4.3  Sous-projet d'un montant sup6rieur i 50 millions FCFA
11.4.4. Revue annuelle des indicateurs
1.5. Relations de l'Agence avec le b6n6ficiaire au cours de l'evaluation des
sous-projets
11.6. Notification de l'acceptation ou du rejet du projet
11.7. Recours du b6n6ficiaire
11.8. Signature de la Convention de Maitrise d'Ouvrage D6l1gu6e
SECTION HI - PROCEDURE DE PRESELECTION ET CLASSEMENT DES TRAVAUX
DES ENTREPRISES
I1H.!. Classement des travaux
III.1.1. Les "Travaux"
111.1.2. Les "Services"
111.2. Classement des entreprises
111.2.1. Publicit6
1.2.2. Modalit6s d'inscription
111.3. Examen des demandes de qualification et de classement
1.4. Reclassements et d6classements
II1.5. Droits des entreprises qualifi6es
SECTION 1V -PROCEDURES D'ATTRIBUTION DES MARCHES DES TRAVAUX ET
CONTRATS DE PRESTATIONS DE SERVICES
IV. 1. G6n6ralit6s
IV.2. Procedures standard pour des marches de travaux dont le montan estime
est infnrieur A 50 millions de. FCFA



77
IV.2.1. Appels d'offres
IV.2.2. Soutission des offres
IV.2.3. Commission d'attribution des marches
IV.2.4. Pr6rogatives de la CAM
IV.2.5. Qualification du sounissionnaire
IV.2.6. Modalites d'ouverture des plis
IV.2.7. Eclaircissements et modifications a apporter aux
soutnissionnaires
IV.2.8. Caractere confidentiel de la proc6dure
IV.2.9. Examens des offres
IV.2. 10. Evaluation et comparaison des offres
IV.2. 11. Selection des soumissionnaires
WI. 12. Attribution du march6
IV.2.13. Prorogation de la validite des ofifres
IV.2. 14. Rejet de toutes les offres
IV.2.15. Nouvelle attribution apr&s resiliation
IV.3. Proc6dure pour les march6s de travaux od il y aurait moins de cinq
soumissionnaires ou dont le montant estim6 est suprieur a 50 milnions
de FCFA et inf6rieur A 100 millions de FCFA
IV.4. Proc6dure d'appel d'offres international pour des marches de travaux
dont le montant estim6 est sup6rieur A 100 millions de FCFA
IV.5. Proc6dures applicables pour les prestations de consultants
SECTION V - PROCEDURES POUR LES ETUDES ET LA SUPERVISION DES
TRAVAUX
V.1. Etudes
V.2. Supervision des Travaux
V.2.1. Fiches d'Avancement du Chantier et Relations avec la
comptabilit6 du march6
V.2.2. Controle des Travaux
V.2.3. S6lection des maitres d'oeuvre
V.2.4. Supervision des maitres d'oeuvre
V.2.5. R6siliation
V.2.6. R6ception Provisoire, vErifications
V.2.7. Reception Definitive
V.2.8. Remuneration des maitres d'oeuvre
V.2.9. Rapport pour le beneficiaire
V.2. 10 Contr6le direct des travaux par l'agence
SECTION VI - PROCEDURES COMPTABLES POUR LA GESTION DES MARCHES
VI.I. Engagements
VI.2. PrEsentation des dEcomptes
VI.3. Contr6le des decomptes
VI.4. Ordonnancement des paienents
VI.5. Signature des cheques et ordres de virement
VI.6. Cl6ture du marche



78
SECTION VII - PROCEDURES DE GESTION DES RESSOURCES DE L'AGENCE
VII. 1. Principe du compte roulant
VI.2. Etats certifi6s de depenses
VII.3.Classement des pieces justificatives
VI.4. Procedures de realimentation
SECTION VlIl - PROCEDURES POUR LE SUIVI DE L'ACTMTE DE L'AGENCE
VIII.1. Mriodicite des rapports
VIII.2. Informations A fournir par la Direction Technique
V11m.3. Infornations A fournir par la Direction Administrative et Financiere
VIII.4. Informations a caractere exceptionnel
VIII.5. Calendrier de preparation et de soumission de chaque rapport
VIII.6. Indicateurs de performance
SECTION IX - PROCEDURES DE SUPERVISION DE L'AGENCE
IX. I. Revision des comptes et audit de gestion
IX.2. Obligations particulieres des differents services de I'Agence lOrS de la
revision des comptes et de l'execution des audits de gestion
IX.3. Comportement des agents vis-a-vis des reviseurs-comptables et des
experts charg6s des audits de gestion
SECTION X - STATUT DU PERSONNEL
X. 1. Contrat de travail
X. . .1. Formation et rupture du contrat de travail
X. 1.2. Sa'aire
X.2. Gestion du personnel
X.2. 1. Defintion de la gestion par objectifs
X.2.2. Lettre d'objectifs annuels
X.2.3. Processus
X.3. Proc6dure d'evaluation
X.3. 1. Auto-evaluation
X.3.2. Evaluation de fm de cycle annuel
X.3.3. Sanctions
ANNEXES
Annexe I - Modele de convention de d6l6gation de maitrise douvrage
Annexe 2 - Modele de fiche de soumission de projet
Annexe 3 - Indicateurs d6valuation des projets eligibles
Annexe 4 - Fiche pour l'impact des sous-projets sur l'environnement
Annexe 5 - Modele de convention-type de mise A disposition de mat6riel
Annexe 6 - Formulaire de qualification et de classification des entreprises
Annexe 7 - Projet de contrat de travaux
Annexe 8 - Modele de lettre de soumission
Annexe 9 - Modele de contrat-type d'6tudes
Annexe 10 - Modele de termes de r6lirence pour une mission d'tudes
Annexe II - Moddle de contrat-type de supervision
Annexe 12 - Modele de termes de r&rence pour une mission de contr6le de travaux
Annexe 13 - Presentation type des rapports dWactivit



79
ANNEX 9



80
Summary of Consulting Services
Type of Contract         Person/months       Fim
T.A. package to contractors and       180              X
consulting finns
Training program for beneficiaries     30              X
Community participation program        20              X
Project monitoring                     60              X
Procurement reform and                 34              X
implementation                           ,       .
CONSULT.SUM



81
ANNEX 10



CHAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
huplanentation Schedule
Pre-    1994       1995           1996              1997            1998     Total
|_______________._______________._______ project  2ad slot                                                   S           Payment
Credit Timing                     .I.__._-_
SignaturelEffectiveness/Close.        x   1      x                                                             XI
Com, pomts
Public Works                                                                                                        14.00
L T.A. to Contractors/Consu.tants                                                        5.7 2.70
LTraining to Beneficiaries                                                _1.0.28
Community Participation                                                  __1_0.25
LMoniin          u    tomundn_                                            0.48
Procures ent Audit Study and Refoam a n0.68
Inerntall Operatob C        u   a, w                                                                                          1.01 ux
Of      aice Eqsleprent                                                svc                                                   0.42 t b
-Miselanesus                                                                                                                  O__ 1i_037
PP,                                                                                                                          0.21
TOTAL  1/                      --. -09                           4.17     S      .11              5.63            2.37    2 0.39
(2. .97)        (3 .92)        (4.36)            (4.38)          (I1.75)   1 7.39
if      Totals might not add up due to rounding.
Note: Figures in paranthescs show IDA-financed amount.
AD works are tD be proeCllN accorig to the procedurs outlined in the Executing Agency's Procedures Manual, which must be
accetable to IDA at aU times. Goods wil be procured by LCII. Consultng servicos arc to be pmmocud accordkg to Ran Guidefine.



83
ANNEX 11



84
Supvision PI"
APPROXIMATE                                ACrIVITY                             EXPECTED SKI1US
DATE                                                                              (SW)
September 1994       Suvervsion Mission                                          Urb. Fin. Analyst
Proiect Lau1ich Workshop                                   Operations Officer (1)
Engineer (1)
Objectives:                                                Disbursements (1)
a) Explain project objectives to beneficiaries, enterprises and  Procumet (1)
government                                              Lawyer (1)
b) Hold detailed workshops on procurement and disbursements
c) Review effectiveness:
i) Achievement of credit effectiveness
ii) Review accounting and management information system
December 1994         Supervision Mission                                        Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
March 1995           Sunervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
June 1995             Supsrvision Mission                                        Ub  Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
,g __________ |b) Review outstanding issues                                       Engineer
-September 1995      suprvi sion                                                Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
!-_____________ !b) Review outstanding issues                                     Engineer
December 1995        Supervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
l_______________   b) Review outstanding issues                                   Engineer
March 1996           Supnervision Mission                                        Urban Fincial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
l_____________   b) Review outstanding issues                                     Engineer
June 1996            Sunervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
September 1996       Joint IDA/Government Mid-Term Review                        Urban Financial
a) Review Action Plan and possibility of extending project to  Analyst
other cities                                            Engineer
b) Review overall project progress and adequacy of institutional
arrangemnents
c) Review project accounting, SOE and disbursements
.___________    d) Review project's overall impact
December 1996         Superisi                                                   Urban Finanial
a) Review project progress and implementation of          Analyst
tecomndations from the Mid-Term Review                  Engineer
b) Review outstaling issues



85
March 1997            Supervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
June 997              Supervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
September 1997        Sunervision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
December 1997          Supervision Mission                                        Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
March 1998             Supervision Mission                                        Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
June 1998              Suarvision Mission                                         Urban Financial
a) Review project progress                                Analyst
b) Review outstanding issues                               Engineer
September 1998         Final Sunervision Mission                                  Urban Financial
a) Discussions with Govemment                             Analyst
b) Preparations for drafting of PCR                        Engineer
c) Initiation of preparatory work for future project.    I
Assumes a Board approval in June 1994.
Staff inputs in staff weeks (sw) to supervision are as follows: 11 sw for FY93, 8 sw for FY94, 8 sw for
FY95, 6 sw for FY96, and 2 sw for FY97.



