Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    20689
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26140)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 17.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR THE PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
June 27, 2000
Water and Urban II
Country Department 07
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = CFAF 1 million = US$ 1,470
FCFA 1 = US$ .00147
US$ 1 = FCFA 680
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEF         Economic and Financial Management Project
AGETIP       Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public
(Public Works Agency)
ATETIP       Agence Tchadienne d'Execution de Travaux d'Int6r9t Public
(Chadian Public Works Executing Agency)
FEPS         Final Executive Project Summary
FCFA         CFA Franc
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PADS         Programme d'Action de D&veloppement Social
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP         United Nations Developnent Program
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:   Serge Michailof, AFC07
Sector Manager:   Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:   Hedi Larbi, AFTT2-U2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  6
6. Sustainability                                                                      6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                   11
10. Additional Information                                                            11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 20
Annex 8. Borrower Comments on the ICR                                                 21
Annex 9. Completion Report by the Borrower                                            22
Map no. IBRD 25339R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000533                                      Project Name: Public Works and Capacity Building
Team Leader: Hedi Larbi                                  TL Unit: AFTT2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Public Works and Capacity Building            L/C,TF Number: IDA-26140
Counlry/Department: CHAD                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/08/1993                             Effective: 03/09/95           03/09/95
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                               MTR: 09/01/96
Approval:  05/19/1994                             Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/ImplementingAgencv: REPUBLIC OF CHAD/ATETIP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  Al Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                          Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:   Hedi Larbi                              Grace Yabridy
ICR PrimaryAuthor:  James Wright
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UJN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives of the project, as stated in the SAR, were (a) to demonstrate the feasibility of
labor-intensive construction practices and projects; (b) to alleviate poverty, concentrating on the
rehabilitation or maintenance of existing infrastructure, in order to generate employment opportunities and
additional income for low-skilled manpower in urban areas; (c) to test procedures that will enable the
public sector to commission such projects to the private sector, particularly the delegation de maitrise



d'ouvrage(delegated contract management); and (d) to improve, through the execution of the works
fnanced by the project, the skills of workers and the competitiveness of firms.
The Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) stated that the objectives of the project were relevant to
country strategy, the underlying theme of which was poverty alleviation. It would improve welfare and the
prospects of long-term growth, by increasing the availability and quality of basic services and promoting
employment generation and entrepreneurship.  The project was also intended to strengthen the
implementation of a Municipal Development Project proposed for FY96 (which was never initiated).
In the FEPS, the only cited "lessons learned" were from six countries in West Africa where AGETIP
projects were being implemented. There was no reference to experience in Chad or the broader country
context, which included recent political and economic instability and significant capacity constraints.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Componenls:
The components were:
(a) investment to protect existing infrastructure and develop additional and urgently needed social
infrastructure, including: (i) labor intensive public works (drainage systems and urban infrastructure, such
as schools, health centers, civic centers and other public facilities); and (ii) a public services program to
restore degraded urban areas;
(b) training for small- and medium-sized enterprises and beneficiaries (local governments and ministries)
in: (i) work organization, management and technical skills, feasibility studiespreparation, technical project
proposals and works supervision; and (ii) a training program for beneficiaries of sub-projects of component
(a) to help them pre-evaluate the feasibility of sub-projects;
(c) increasing community participation in: (i) sub-project identification; and (ii) urban infrastructure
maintenance; and
(d) procurement reform to improve the transparency and efficiency of the procurement process by
identifying current bottlenecks and providing consulting services for revising the procurement code.
These were standard components for AGETIP projects in other African countries. Capacity building was
included for contractors, engineering firns and beneficiaries. There was no explicit capacity building for
ATETIP employees and managers.  Because of weaknesses identified in the government contract
management system, the study and audit of government procurement was included in component (d). This
was a separate exercise, which was intended to contribute to the establishment of effective Government
procurement systems, but would not have a direct effect on the new ATETTP agency.
3.4 Revised Components:
The above components were not revised. However, due to the lack of implementation capacity elsewhere,
very early in its development ATETIP made additional commitments to implement sub-projects under other
IDA-assisted projects. By April 1994, prior to the effectiveness of this project, ATETIP had signed
- 2 -



separate conventions to implement sub-projects under two additional IDA-assisted projects, the Basic
Education Project (Cr.2501-CD) and the Health and Safe Motherhood Project (Cr.2626-CD). By July
1995, a further convention was signed with a Bank-supported Livestock Project (Cr.2685-CD). These
additions added to agency's difficulties during the initial implementation period (see section 4.5).
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The project was structured with similar legal foundations as in other AGETIP projects. Prior to
negotiations, a Director General acceptable to IDA would be appointed.   Prior to effectiveness, a
Convention was to be established between the Government and ATETIP. ATETIP was to be given the
status of a non-profit agency exempt from taxation. Statutes, Rules and a Manual of Procedures were to
be established and Technical and Financial Directors acceptable to IDA were to be appointed. The Statutes
established a General Assembly, comprised of representatives of ATETIP Members, which initially
included the association of NGOs, The Chad National Council, the Water and Electricity Company, the
Chamber of Commerce and the Director General. There was also an Oversight Committee with
representatives from Government (Ministries of Planning, Public Works and Finance), two members of the
General Assembly and the Director General. Prior to effectiveness, an accounting system acceptable to
IDA was to be established and auditors were to be appointed. Technical and financial audits were to be
carried out quarterly and annually respectively. Annual work programs were to be agreed upon in advance
with IDA. The Convention stipulated that ATETIP should limit its work to N'djamena during the first
phase. Instead of counterpart funding, the Government agreed to parallel finance a separate set of works as
its contribution.
AGETIP projects call for reforms in public procurement and have often met resistance from some parts of
Government. This was also true in Chad. As late as July 1993, the Minister of Planning and the Mayor of
N'djamena had voiced objection about the financial aspects of the project, and there were concerns within
Government about ATETIP's independent status and staffing. Consensus within the Government was a
constraint throughout implementation.
To advance preparation, funds were allocated in early 1993 to finance pilot projects and ATETIP's
start-up costs and test ATETIP's capacity and ability to follow the Manual of Procedures. US $1 million
were reallocated for this purpose from two ongoing IDA financed projects, the Action Program for Social
Development Project (PADS - Cr.2156-CD) and the Economic and Financial Management Project (AGEF
- Cr. 1872 - CD). The pilot projects were to be started by June 1993, but at that time no agency or staff
were in place. An additional PPF of US $210,000 was authorized in late 1993 for the pilot projects. In the
end, the pilot projects were completed in April 1995, a year after negotiations. There were delays in
staffing. Recruitment of the Director General began in January 1993 and involved disputes within
Government. It was not concluded until early 1994, just prior to negotiation and remained a source of
dispute for another year. A Bank staff member participated in the selection committee. Financial and
Technical Directors were not recruited until August and November 1994, respectively. These delays
limited the time for key staff to familiarize themselves with the requirements of AGETIP management.
The issues noted above may have constrained initial implementation, but they are not uncommon. It is
likely that most of them would have been addressed if early supervision missions had been more effective.
On balance, quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenent of objective:
-3 -



The objectives of the project were only partly met. In addition to the pilot projects, only one set of
sub-projects was built (about 25% of the appraisal target). Thus, there was only a limited demonstration of
labor intensive practices and a limited poverty alleviation impact. The delegated contract management
system was tested and some workers' and finns' capacities were improved. Because the project was
suspended, these improvements fell short of the targets and their sustainability is questionable (see Section
6.1).
4.2 Outputs by components:
The initial pilot sub-projects were completed by April 1995. The first set of sub-projects financed under
the project for US $2,750,000 together with US $250,000 in sub-projects financed by the Government were
completed by early 1996.  These works involved the construction/rehabilitation of gutters and public
latrines, schools, health centers, community centers and government buildings. Over 6,000 person days of
employment were created. Given the poor quality of technical audits and poor contract management by
ATETIP, it was difficult to assess the quality of these works. However, although the failure of ATETIP's
management and financial systems caused the project to be suspended after the first phase, there is evidence
that the process of physical implementation was producing results. A technical and financial audit
undertaken after the project was suspended was able to identify all the works financed under the project and
confirm that their costs had generally been less than with other similar works in Chad.A second set of
sub-projects was prepared, but only part of it was initiated following threats of credit suspension and
formal credit suspension in April 1997. Efforts to involve beneficiaries in the project were initiated with a
radio and press campaign about the ATETIP program and a sample survey of beneficiary households to
identify priorities. Storm drainage was identified as the highest priority. There was also one round of
training for neighborhood sanitation committees and for employees of government agencies. Contacts were
also made with NGOs to begin sensitization to operation and maintenance needs, but there was little
follow-up on these efforts at community participation after suspension.
Environmental Analysis
The project was rated C, with no significant environmental issues since it was expected to focus on the
rehabilitation of existing buildings and infrastructure on existing alignments. However, environmental
assessments were supposed to be undertaken using a simple methodology to ensure there would be no
negative consequences on the environment. This was not done for the first set of sub- projects. The agency
was then asked to provide ex-post environmental assessments, and guidelines for simplified environmental
assessments were especially prepared for them. This analysis also was not done. An assessment of
environmental impacts was to have been prepared for the mid-term review (scheduled for September 1996),
but the review did not take place; the Credit was suspended in April 1997.
Private Sector Development
The development of construction and engineering firms and the skills of their workers was an objective of
the project (see section 3.1). Sixty small local construction finms and 15 engineering firms were employed
and given the opportunity to develop under the project, although the time for this was limited. A contract
was signed in 1996 with a consultant to begin a training program for contractors and consulting engineers.
Forty contractors were given training in early 1997; training for consulting engineers did not begin.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate ofreturn:
-4 -



Economic analysis was undertaken for the pilot sub-projects before the project was appraised. These were
estimated to have economic rates of return ranging from 20 percent to 60 percent. The Manual of
Procedures prescribed that cost-benefit analysis should be used on some sub-projects to verify economic
utility, but this was not done, since most sub-projects involved simple rehabilitation and maintenance.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
No financial rates of return were calculated for this project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
From the outset, the program expanded rapidly, both geographically (contrary to ATETIP's convention
under this project) and in types of sub-projects. ATETIP's accounting and procurement systems were
inadequate, and salaries and administrative costs were high (15 percent of project expense). These serious
inadequacies went largely undetected during several missions (see section 7.2), but a mission in May 1996
noted serious problems in financial, procurement and contract management. A long-tenn financial
management consultant was recommended to address these deficiencies, but none was recruited.
Deficiencies in the first four technical audits were also noted. The audits provided observations on the
quality of the pilot projects but without commenting on reasons for poor results. They did not give precise
recommendations which would have helped ATETIP to improve its performance. ATETIP's premises
were closed for ten days due to a dispute with the Ministry of Finance over its fiscal status.
By September 1996 there was still no progress. A financial audit report noted the inadequacy of the
fmancial accounting system and absence of internal control.  Procurement records were inadequate;
compliance with procurement requirements could not be evaluated. There was no central filing system.
Many contracts, bidding and accounting documents related to invoice payments were misplaced. Post
review of contract documents was difficult. The financial audit reports were judged to be unsatisfactory
by an IDA mission, and a change in the Financial Director and the auditor was recommended. Technical
audits remained inadequate, and the fiscal status of ATETIP still had not been defined.
A further assessment of financial management in December 1996 found that, while the accounting system
was structured adequately, ATETIP's personnel lacked the ability to use it correctly, and complete
financial statements were not produced. Filing was not done by contract, which would be essential to
control works and resource use. Recommendations were made to hire financial management consultants to
improve ATETIP's financial management, to put in place an adequate system of controls, and to convene
the General Assembly to examine quarterly reports and appoint an external auditor. When these
recommendations were not followed, the project was formally suspended on April 15, 1997, largely
because of financial mismanagement and failure to have outside audits submitted to its General Assembly
(which had not met for 1 1/2 years). ATETIP's work under the convention with the Health and Safe
Motherhood Project (Cr.2626-CD) had been canceled in December 1995 due to poor performance by
ATETIP. Conventions with other Bank-supported projects were completed by 1998.
In 1998 funds were mobilized for technical and financial post-reviews and IDA hired consultants. Detailed
discussions were held with Government to establish the principle that some funds would have to be repaid.
A new General Director and Financial and Technical Directors were put in place by the agency, and a
second batch of sub-projects prepared.  An IDA mission visited Chad to assist the Government and
ATETIP to take the necessary steps for lifting the suspension. Although the Government and ATETIP
took steps to rectify the problems, it was not possible to lift the suspension before the closing date.
Analysis by the Bank continued after closing to further verify the amount to be repaid (see section 7.2).
-5-



The sustainability of ATETIP remains uncertain (see section 6.1).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In the 1980s, there was recurring instability and domestic strife in Chad. There was an abrupt political
change in 1990 which led to large budget deficits and a financial crisis. In 1992, Chad ranked 150th out
of 160 countries on the UNDP's Human Development Index. These factors implied significant capacity
limitations and constraints to institution building and development which were beyond the control of the
agency and outside the short-term control of Government.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to government control:
ATETIP's fiscal status was not clearly established until after credit suspension, reflecting the lack of full
Government support for the agency and the project. Staffing decisions were not made efficiently. The
Director General, the Technical Director and the Director of Finance and Administration were appointed
very late in the preparation/effectiveness process, leaving them a very limited start-up and learning period.
The Director General did not have an adequate background in private sector management necessary for
AGETIP management, and the Director of Finance lacked adequate qualification and experience in
financial management.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agencv control:
ATETIP was unable to establish adequate procedures for management and financial control, which was the
main reason for the failure of the project (see Section 4.5). ATETIP's program grew too rapidly in size
and scope. In addition to commitments under Credit 2614-CD, three additional conventions were made
under three projects between January 1994 and July 1995 for a total of FCFA 7 billion. ATETIP was
signing 25 contracts per quarter, beginning in June 1995, which the auditors considered beyond its
capacity. The agency's administrative expenses grew rapidly, as noted in subsequent audits. ATETIP did
little to bring about an improvement of its technical and financial audits, after deficiencies were pointed out
by specialists brought out by Bank missions. Improved audits could have charted a course towards
improved performance. There were long periods during which the General Assembly did not convene.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs were only about 25 percent of the cost estimated at appraisal, because only the first batch of
sub-projects was implemented. In two categories, the amounts spent were a much larger percentage of the
appraisal estimates: Incremental Operating Expenses (82 percent) and Office Installation and Equipment
(71 percent) which reflected the high levels of administrative expense of ATETIP.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for suslainabilily rating:
The project was suspended in April 1997 and closed on June 30, 1999. Although ATETIP remains in
name with a reduced staff, it has no work program and limited prospects for further work. At this time it
does not appear to be sustainable as an agency.  AGETIP projects do not usually focus directly on
operation and maintenance. Maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure would be the responsibility of
the Municipality of N'djamena and government agencies, but they have very limited resources for
- 6 -



maintenance. An urban development project had been planned for Chad which would have built municipal
capacity to maintain these types of works, but preparation for it has not yet begun. The prospects for
sustaining most investments under the project are uncertain, although the prospects for maintaining health
centers and primary schools are somewhat better, because maintenance is the responsibility of direct
beneficiaries.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since the project was suspended and ultimately closed before suspension could be lifted, no arrangements
for transition to regular operation could be fomialized. Use and maintenance of the infrastructure built
under the pilot phase and first batch of sub-projects is uncertain, although more formal arrangements have
been made for the operation and maintenance of schools and health centers.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation efforts followed the process established in other AGETIP projects. This project had similar
legal foundations and staffing criteria as in other projects which had succeeded (see section 3.5).
Resistance to changes in procurement processes have been normal in this type of project, and similar
capacity limitations exist elsewhere. These types of problems are not uncommon. Most AGETIP projects
prepared in the same manner have been able to start up quickly when projects are approved and program
budgets become available. On balance, therefore, Bank performance for preparation is rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The first phase of supervision included the early years of the project (1994 and 1995) before unsatisfactory
progress was identified. The task manager and division manager responsible for the project changed soon
after Board approval. During this period, there was a lack of the type of support that would have been
needed to launch a new agency in a difficult environment. Effectiveness was delayed until March 1995,
almost a year after negotiations, and one key condition of effectiveness was not fully met, establishment of
an accounting system acceptable to the Bank. At that time, only a consulting firm had been recruited to
establish the system, but it was not yet in place. The accounting system remained a problem throughout the
project. The original supervision plan called for a project launch workshop involving beneficiaries,
enterprises and Government. It was to include an urban financial analyst, an operations officer, an
engineer, a disbursement- officer, a procurement specialist and a lawyer. Subsequent missions were to
include an urban financial analyst. However, there was no launch workshop, and the first two missions
included only a municipal engineer and a research analyst. A financial analyst was not included in
supervision until August 1995, four months after effectiveness. A mid-1995 audit report noted problems in
expense recording and asset registration, and ATETIP was requested to address these issues. The
following mission in November 1995 considered these issues to have been dealt with. There was no
evidence that ex-post procurement reviews were carried out for the pilot phase and the first batch of
sub-projects. Throughout this period the project was consistently rated satisfactory, even though the
convention between ATETIP and the Health project (Cr.2626-CD) was canceled by IDA in December
1995 due to poor performance by ATETIP.
The second phase of supervision extended from early 1996 when a new task manager took over and took
note of the serious problems that existed.  A May 1996 mission brought to light serious problems in
accounting and management in the agency, which had beenpreviously overlooked. It also took careful
-7 -



note of deficiencies in technical and financial audits. During this and subsequent missions in 1996,
technical, financial and procurement specialists were brought in to evaluate the situation, propose
improvements and work with the agency to achieve them. ATETIP was advised to recruit financial and
technical consultants from other AGETIP agencies in Africa. which they did. Despite these efforts,
financial management and procurement practices did not improve. More time and effort would have been
needed to ensure that reforms were implemented within the agency. Without an effective program to
reform the agency, the suspension on April 15, 1997 became inevitable.
The third phase of supervision followed the credit suspension and lasted for several months after which the
project was closed on June 30, 1999. IDA undertook a thorough four-stage audit of the project during this
phase of supervision:
(i) In early 1998, IDA hired consultants to conduct financial and technical post-reviews of work undertaken
under the four credits administered by ATETIP. The reviews carefully examined the amounts disbursed
which could not be substantiated and would have to be reimbursed. They found that ATETIP had been
incapable of effectively monitoring and controlling construction, did not have a clear separation between its
organization and its projects, and could not comply with management and reporting principles. Accounts
from 1994 to 1996 did not reflect the operations or financial position of ATETIP. Accounting vouchers
were inadequate to substantiate financial position, and accounting documents were inadequate to
substantiate some pay orders. Operating expenses were high (15 percent of project expense). Supporting
documents were inadequate for about 70 percent of consultant expenditure and 25 percent of infrastructure
expenditure. Only 32 percent of the work financed from local funds was performed. The procurement
post-review also found numerous problems. Bid documents and bid analyses were of poor quality, and
quality control was lacking.
(ii) The financial auditor was requested to do a second audit in June 1998 of expenditures managed by
ATETIP under all four IDA credits, in order to ascertain how much of the funds disbursed lacked
documentation by the agency and may have been ineligible for disbursement from IDA. While all
expenditures were found to be eligible with respect to project objectives, FCFA 2.1 billion (US $3.8
million) were found to lack full or accurate documentation.
(iii) After a subsequent review by IDA, which took into account that (a) a more thorough audit was not
possible because of insufficient supporting documents for some expenditure; (b) the costs had actually been
low for these types of works; and (c) IDA had some responsibility of IDA for neglecting ex-post review of
procurement during supervision (there was no evidence of ex-post reviews); and (d) in some cases the
documentation lacking was not essential, the ineligible amount was determined to be FCFA 481 million.
The region sought reimbursement of this documented ineligible amount.  After discussions with
Government and the provision of additional supporting documents by ATETIP, this amount was reduced to
FCFA 348 million, of which FCFA 269 pertained to Credit 2614-CD. In June 1998, an IDA mission
visited Chad to discuss steps for lifting suspension. Conditions for lifting suspension were: (a) clarify the
issues related to the fiscal status of ATETIP; (b) submit quarterly technical and financial audits for second
quarter 1996; (c) establish an accounting system similar to a private firm; (d) adopt intemal procedures and
management control; (e) enable the borrower to manage its financial and technical audit contracts; and (f)
convene a meeting of the General Assembly to review quarterly reports and appoint a qualified external
auditor. Any new program would be limited initially in size and scope. ATETIP took steps to reactivate
the project. Before the closing date of June 30, 1999, ATETIP had made the necessary improvements for
suspension to be lifted. A new Director General as well as Finance and Technical Directors were hired,
and an improved accounting system was established. However, it was not possible to lift the suspension
before that date, and it was not possible to extend the closing date for a project under suspension.
-8 -



(iv) In April 1999, ATETIP was asked to provide additional information on works contracts in order to
further substantiate the amount of ineligible expenditure. Ten additional contracts under Credit 2614-CD
for a total amount of FCFA 256 million were found not to be sufficiently documented in order to assess the
basis for ATETIP's award, but these ten contracts had been judged acceptable by the June 1998 ex-post
review based on the information available to the auditor in the field at that time. Therefore, the region did
not propose to classify these contracts as ineligible. However, there remained 11 contracts for an amount
of FCFA 189.6 million which were missing the basic information to assess the justification for ATETIP's
award. Two of these amounting to FCFA 78.6 million had already been declared ineligible in Phase II.
Therefore only nine contracts totaling FCFA 111 million remained an issue for consideration. During a
field survey carried out in 1999 sufficient guaranties were given that these works had actually been done at
an acceptable price. Therefore the region did not recommend seeking reimbursement for these nine
contracts. The region is, however, pursuing reimbursement for the contracts previously identified as
ineligible. Two installments of FCFA 73.8 million and FCFA 160.0 million have been repaid to the Bank
and credited to amounts due under Credit 2614-CD. FCFA 36.5 million remain to be reimbursed to the
Bank under this project. Once this remaining balance has been repaid, the amount of the credit to be
canceled will roughly be SDR 8.686 million.
There was a large improvement in the amount of effort and the scope of analysis during the later phases of
supervision and a very large effort was made to diagnose the problems and revive the project. However,
this effort was only necessary because of the failure of early missions to identify and address problems. It
is because of the failure of early supervision that on balance supervision is rated highly unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
There were four task managers from identification to the end of the project and several changes in
managers and country directors. Insufficient development of ATETIP and its personnel during preparation
led to problems, but these could probably have been addressed with a more effective effort at the early
stages of supervision. This did not happen. Initial supervision missions were understaffed and inattentive
to problems. Despite the large improvement in the quality of the later phases of supervision, on balance
Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Goverunent was slow to agree to ATETIP's structure and independence. Although a program of pilot
projects was agreed to in early 1993, they were not completed until two years later. Staffing decisions by
Government were slow. The Director General was not named until just before appraisal and the Financial
and Technical Directors were not named until late 1994. The Director General lacked adequate private
sector experience and the Financial Director lacked adequate qualification in financial management. The
delays in staffmg and in implementing pilot works led to an agency with insufficient financial and contract
management systems being put in charge of a major new type of project.  Performance is rated
unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
g9



Government support for ATETIP varied. For a long time the fiscal status was left undefined, causing
disruption. The Government closed ATETIP's offices for ten days in 1996 for non-payment of taxes.
Action plans (prepared by missions in 1996) to resuscitate the project were discussed with the Ministry of
Planing, but little was done to remedy the problems. The Government did replace the General Director
after suspension, and it supported efforts to rebuild ATETIP. Performance is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Inmpletnenting Agency:
ATETIP had inadequate contract and financial management systems which were not rectified until after
suspension (see Section 4.5). It quickly became overwhelmed when its workload expanded at the beginning
of 1995 and then collapsed in early 1996. Its administrative costs were high. When its financial and
technical audits were insufficient, it did nothing to improve them. It did not react to constructive
suggestions in the audit reports and those given by Bank missions. Its performance is rated highly
unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the slow progress in establishing the institution, the failure to establish adequate management
systems, and the very poor outcome with respect to objectives and physical components, overall Borrower
performance is judged to be unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
-   In addition to ATETIP's convention under this project, the agency signed four additional conventions
under three other IDA-assisted projects. Prior to the effectiveness of this project ATETIP had signed
separate conventions under the Basic Education Project (Cr.2501-CD) and the Health and Safe
Motherhood Project (CR.2626-CD). By July 1995, an additional convention was signed with an
IDA-supported Livestock Project (CR2685-CD). This large amount of additional types of work, some
of which was located outside the capital and before the agency had gained the necessary experience,
contributed to the early failure of the project.  There is a clear lesson that new AGETIP agencies
should be firmly established and tested before they take on other types of projects financed from other
additional source of funding.
*   There were delays in preparing and implementing pilot projects which were intended to develop
experience for the new agency. Where pilot projects are introduced during project preparation and are
not progressing, it is- important to draw appropriate lessons and consider whether more intensive
supervision and/or specific other remedial measures are warranted.
*   Agencies such as AGETIPs, which are designed to introduce private contracting practices into
situations where government administration has prevailed, should be carefully staffed with managers
with private sector experience.
*   AGETIP projects usually fund large amounts of technical assistance to build capacity among private
sector contractors and engineering firms, but little assistance is directed specifically to the agencies
themselves. New AGETIP agencies are likely to require intensive assistance during initial supervision
missions to build their capacity. Where this is not sufficient, additional medium or long-term
consultant assistance should be provided to build capacity within the agencies themselves.
- 1 0 -



*   Early supervision missions lacked sufficient skills to support the development of the agency. For
AGETIP projects, mission members should have experience with this type of project and include at
least an engineer and an accountant, especially because of the specialized nature of delegated contract
management and the need to conduct financial and technical reviews.
*   For AGETIP projects, systematic prior review of every sub-project in the first year of operation should
be used to identify and remedy problems at an early stage. Systematic post reviews of procurement
and Statements of Expenditure are important after the second and third years to ensure continued
performTance. The region has introduced new guidelines and procedures for current and future
AGETIP projects, including a new procedures manual, standardized documents, and technical auditing
procedures. Workshops are being held with staff in the Africa region and in the AGETIP agencies to
disseminate this information.
*   Early AGETIP projects were not always effective in assuring operation and maintenance, which had a
negative impact on sustainability. Under this project there was an understanding that the municipality
would budget for future maintenance, but the municipality lacked financial capacity. It is important for
future projects to ensure that operation and maintenance will be assured. In most cases this would
involve building financial and executing capacity within local governments to maintain the new works
and intensifying efforts to have AGETIPs and municipal govenmments work together more closely.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
Ihe French version of the draft ICR was sent to the Borrower for their comments. In a letter dated June
26, 2000, the Borrower indicated its agreement with the substance of the Bank's ICR, but pointed to the
following minor disagreement: based on reports furnished by the Project Executing Agency, and contrary to
what is mentioned in the ICR on pages 8 and 17, the Borrower noted that consultant training, in fact, took
place. Out of a total of 61 participants registered, there were 48 with an attendance rate above 20 percent,
33 with an attendance rate above 40 percent and 14 with an attendance rate above 60 percent. This
training lasted three and a half months with an average of three to four sessions per week.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (.NGOs'private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
5<    «5<>.~ ~  ~~~~~. ......
Number of contracts signed             280                                     67
No. of works contracts completed       260                                     67
Average time fbr processing contracts  20 days                                 110
No. of man months of employment created   70000                                7245
No. of beneficiaries trained           78                                      Not available.
Contracting firms trained              190                                     40
Consulting firms trained               50                                      0
Output Indicators:
Separate output indicators were not    Not applicable                          Not applicable
stipulated at appraisal.
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comronent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Public Works (including parallel financed works)      14.00            3.29            24
TA-Contractors                                         2.70            0.50            19
Training-Beneficiaries                                 0.28            0.00             0
Community Participation                                0.25            0.07            28
Monitoring                                             0.48            0.13            27
Procurement Reform and Implementation                  0.68            0.19            28
Incremental Operating Expenses                         1.01            0.83            82
Office Installation and Equipment                      0.42            0.30            71
Refinancing PPF                                        0.21            0.19            91
Total Baseline Cost                                   20.03            5.50
Price Contingencies                                   0.37
Total Project Costs              20.40             5.50
Total Financing Required               20.40            5.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ESpen4ituft cstego                  Pr*;Uml-fltMX
1. Works                     0.00         11.00        0.00         3.00         14.00
(0.00)      (11.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (11.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.42         0.00         0.42
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.42)       (0.00)       (0.42)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.39         0.00         4.39
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.39)       (0.00)       (4.39)
4. Agency Operating Cost     0.00         0.00         1.01         0.00         1.01
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.01)       (0.00)       (1.01)
5. Unallocated               0.00         0.00         0.37         0.00         0.37
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.37)       (0.00)       (0.37)
6. PPF Refinancing           0.00         0.00         0.21         0.00         0.21
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.21)       (0.00)       (0.21)
Total                     0.00         11.00        6.40         3.00         20.40
(0.00)      (11.00)       (6.40)       (0.00)       (17.40)
-13 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00           3.29           0.00           0.19           3.48
(0.00)         (3.29)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.29)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.30           0.00           0.00           0.30
(0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)
3. Services                      0.00                          0.89           0.00           0.89
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.89)         (0.00)         (0.89)
4. Agency Operating Cost         0.00           0.00           0.83           0.00           0.83
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.83)         (0.00)         (0.83)
5. Unallocated                   0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. PPF Refinancing               0.00           0.00           0.19           0.00           0.19
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0. 19)       (0.00)          (0. 19)
Total                         0.00           3.59           1.91           0.19           5.69
(0.00)         (3.59)        (1.91)          (0.00)         (5.50)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, techmical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenmnent urits.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.......... .. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ectat~.Ap~aia
Public Works             11.00      3.00                 3.29      0.19               29.9   6.3    0.0
TA-Contractors            2.70                           0.50                         18.5   0.0    0.0
Training-Beneficiaries    0.28                           0.00                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Community Participation   0.25                           0.07                         28.0   0.0    0.0
Monitoring                0.48                           0.13                         27.1   0.0    0.0
ProcurementRef &Imp       0.68                           0.19                         27.9   0.0    0.0
Imcremental Op.Exp.       1.01                           0.83                         82.2   0.0    0.0
Office Instal and Equip.  0.42                           0.30                         71.4   0.0    0.0
Refmancing PFP            0.21                           0.19                         90.5   0.0    0.0
Actual cost and financing amounts were provided by the agency in SDRs. They may underestimate actual
dollar cost and financing amounts.
- 14 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No ex-post economic evaluation was undertaken (see Section 4.3).
- 15 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project CycleNo. of Person's and Specialty                  Perfonrmace Rati
:(eg. 2 Econoists,i   1 FMS, c.)   Implementation      Development 
MontWYear    Count        Specialty                       FProgress:         Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/92                         2   Financial Analyst, Economist
1/93                          2   Economist, Financial Analyst,
Division Chief
5/93                          2   Financial Analyst, Economist
7/93                          3   Financial Analyst, Program
Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
1/94                          2   Financial Analyst, Division
Chief
Supervision
7/94                           1  Engineer                             HS                HS
1/95                          2  Municipal Engineer, Research          S                 HS
Assistant
4/95                          2  Municipal Engineer, Research          S                  S
Assistant
8/95                          3  Municipal Engineer, Financial         S                  S
Analyst, Research Assistant
11/95'                        2  Municipal Engineer, Municipal         S                 S
Finance Specialist
5/96                          4  Municipal Finance Specialist.         U                 U
(2), Civil Engineer, Division
Chief
10/96                         4  Municipal Finance Specialists         U                 U
(2), Procurement Assistant,
Civil Engineer
12/96                         2  Financial Analyst, Municipal          U                 U
Finance Specialist
6/98                           1  Urban/Transport Engineer             U                 U
ICR
01/2000 - 06/2000             1   Sr. Transport Planner
I   Municipal Finance Specialist
- 16-



(b) Staff?
I   - Stage of Project Cycle       .      --                          e est Esimate
..   .        .  .... No. Stafeeks  -US$ (0OO)
Identification/Preparation                  19.6                          51.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                       40.5                          93.7
Supervision                                140.9                         484.3
ICR                                          5.7                          10.3
Total                                      206.7                         640.0
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  ONA
O Physical                                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
O PovertyReduction                 O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
ZGender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
OI Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=SatisfactoTy, U=Unsatisfactoxy, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
IX Lending                                           OHS OS   OU  OHU
z Supervision                                        OHS Os   OU  *HU
X Overall                                            OHS Os * u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
• Preparation                                         OHS OS   * U  O HU
• Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
• Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS O S   0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS * U O HU
- 19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I. Staff Appraisal Report
2. Development Credit Agreement
3. Convention of ATETIP
4. Manual of Procedures of ATETIP
5. Annual Reports of ATETIP
7. Reports of the Post-Suspension Financial and Technical Audit
8. Borrower's Final Report
9. LOAAF disbursement data
10. Memo dated April 10, 2000 from the Sector Director to the Vice President, Africa Region
11. Aide-Memoire dated June 1998.
-20 -



.,-06-2000 13:00    DE   INTBRFRAD NDJ TCHAD                90012024?38249  P.02
Annex 8
Republique du Tchad                   Unite - Travail - Progr6s
Ministere de la Promotion Economique
et du Ddveloppement
Direction Generale
NDjam&na, le 2 6 JUIN 2000
N    °    /MPEDI)DG/2000
Le Ministre de la Promotion
Economique et du Developpement
Monsieur Philippe Charles Benoit
Directeur des Op6rations a. L.
r! -              . [24,[ (@                     pour le Tchad
.  . .    >- - > - -                       R6gion Afrique - Banque Mondiale
Washinaton D.C.
Oiet : Rapport de fin d'execution du Projet de Travaux
d'lnteret Public et de Renforcement des
Capacites (Credit 2614-CD) etabli par l'IDA
Monsieur le Directeur,
Nous venons de recevoir ce 22 juin 2000 une copie du Rapport de fin d'execution du Projet
de Travaux d'lnt6r&t Public et de Renforcement des Capacites etabli par l'IDA et nous vous
en remercions.
Nous n'avons pas commentaires particuliers a faire sur le fond du rapport. Nous vous
signalons cependant que, sur la base des rapports foumis par lAgence d'execution du
Projet, contrairement a ce que mentionne le document en ses pages 8 et 17, la formation
des ingenieurs-conseils (etudes et contr6le) a bien eu lieu. Sur un total de 61 inscrits, on
compte effectivement 48 participants avec un taux d'assiduite sup&rieur 20%, 33 avec un
taux d'assiduite sup6rieur 40% et 14 avec un taux d'assiduite superieur 60%. Cette
formation s'est etalee sur 3 mois et demi a raison de 3 A 4 seances par semaine.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Directeur, 1'expression de ma parfaite consid6ration.
*          )           | AHMED LAMINE ALI
cc:  Hedi Larbi
Mission Residente
ATETIP
- 21 -
TOTRL PAGE S) 02



Annex 9
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET DES TRAVAUX
D'INTERET PUBLIC - CREDIT 2614 CD
Avec I'appui du Consultant
NDJOLBA MADJIHIGAM,
Expert agree en Batiments et Travaux Publics
Mars 2000
- 22 -



SOMMAIRE
1.  INTRODUCTION
II.  EXECUTION DU PROJET
A-  REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
B-  REALISATION PHYSIQUE
C-  DEVELOPPEMENT PENDANT LA PERIODE DU PROJET
D-  REALISATION FINANCIERE
111. ANALYSE DES PERFORMANCES
A-  ENVIRONNEMENT NATIONAL
B-  PERFORMANCE DE L'ADMINISTRATION
C-  PERFORMANCE DE L 'AGENCE
D-  PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
E-  PERFORMANCE DES P.M.E., DES BUREAUX D'EIUDES ET DES
AUTRES PARTENAIRES
IV. IMPACTS DU PROJET
A-  IMPACTS SOCIAUX
B-  AUTRES IMPACTS
V.  CONCLUSIONS
A-  LA PERENNISATION DU PROGRAMME ET DES INVESTISSEMENTS
I DU PROJET
B-  LES LECONS POUR LE FUTUR
VI. ANNEXES (TABLEAUX)
Ryxappctwg  cite Pu I'rqjq Iet s 7rgt c,v|x SIrv no : r&  i'hlik . Credit 2614-01t)  -I.
- 23 -



I.  INTRODUCTION
Un accord de credit (Credit de Developpemen no 2614-CD) a ete passe, en date du 13 juillet
1994, entre la Republique du Tchad et l'Association Intemationale de Developpement (IDA)
pour le financement d'un projet denomme Projet de Travaux d'lnter&t Public. L'execution de
ce projet a et conFide a l'Agence Tchadienne d'Execution des Travaux d'lnteret Public
(ATEFIP), crude Ic 05 janvier 1994. Le Projet a effectivement commence ses premieres
operations en 1995. Le Credit fut malheureusernent suspendLi Ie 16 Avril 1997 pour non-
respect de certaines dispositions de I'Accord de Credit. Cette mesure n'a pu etre lev6e
jusqu'en juin 1999, date a laquelle, selon ['Accord de Credit. le Projet devrait etre cl6ture.
Le Projet a ete effectivement cl6ture a cette date, et un rapport d'achevement a ete demande a
I' emprunteur.
Pour la redaction de ce rapport, un consultant local agree en Batiments et Travaux Publics a
ete mis en contribution. Ce rapport d'achevement a ete elabore par le Consultant a partir des
documents du Projet et a ete revu, essentiellement dans sa fonme, par la Direction Generale de
l ATETIP. Le plan du rapport est inspire de celui contenu dans les termes de ref&ence foumis
au Consultant.
II.  EXECUTION DU PROJET
A-    REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS
La plupart des objectifs fixes dans la phase de conception du Projet ont ete touches. Meme si
les resultats obtenus n'ont pas toujours et a la hauteur des attentes des differents partenaires
impliques dans le Projet. ils ont apporte une amelioration notable dans les differents domaines
suivants concemes par le Projet. 11 s'agit:
a)    du renforcement des caDacites locales
Avec la mise en oeuvre du Projet, en plus des anciens P.M.E., bureaux d'6tudes et comites
d'assainissement locaux, 45 P.M.E., 11 bureaux d'etudes et des comites d'assainissement ont
ete crees. Ils ont eu a s'exercer a travers les differentes realisations auxquelles ils ont pris part
et ont, de ce fait. acquis des experiences notables dans le domaine des batiments et travaux
publics; ce qui permet aujourd'hui a un bon nombre de ces acteurs du secteur urbain de
continuer leurs activites dans ce domaine.
Rlq'l'lJrtowri ,r,,tl ul 'r/trl des irnux- y d 'I1hrc'1 l',,hlic -CWi 26/4-C    ---
- 24 -



Un volet formation a e  apporte par le Projet, notamment (a) dans le domaine de l'elaboration
des offres techniques (pour les bureaux d'etudes), (b) dans le domaine de I'eiaboration des
etudes de faisabilite (pour les beneficiaires) et (c) dans la maitrise des chantiers (pour les
P.M.E. du secteur B.T.P. ). Au total 224 personnes ont ete formees.
b)    de I'aide au Gouvernement pour l'entretien de ses infrastructures
Dans son actif, le Projet a eu a investir pour ia premiere banque de sous-projets 2.450.000
DTS pour construire, refectionner et rehabiliter plusieurs edifices publics (ecoles,
dispensaires, hopitaux, centres sociaux, bureaux, etc.) et pour lc curage des caniveaux.
Parmi les edifices et ouvrages rehabilites ou refectionnes, un bon nombre manquait d entretien
depuis fort longtemps et cette intervention du Projet a permis de donner, d'une part, un coup
de main a l'Etat dans le cadre de l'entretien de ses infrastructures, et d'autre part, de rendre
plus fonctionnelles et operationnelles certaines structures sensibles telles que les h6pitaux,
dispensaires, centres sociaux et ecoles. (voir dans tableau I les differents types d'ouvrages
concernes).
c)    de la lutte contre le ch6maee et la creation d'emplois
Le Projet, a travers ses realisations, a permis le maintien et le fonctionnement de beaucoup de
P.M.E. et bureaux d'etudes et la creation d'autres; cela a et un outil non negligeable dans la
lutte contre le ch6mage.
Le Projet a signe 61 contrats avec les P.M.E., 119 contrats d'etudes et de suivi avec le bureaux
d'etudes, et cree au moins 6228 hommesjour d'emplois avec la methode d'utilisation
intensive de main d'oeuvre (HIMO) dans le cadre de la premiere banque de sous-projets
financement IDA.
Les emplois ainsi crees ont et, pendant leur duree, une source de revenus non negligeable
pour beaucoup de familles.
d)    de I'amelioration des procedures de passation des marchis publics et
dekegation de mattrise d'ouvrage.
Dans le cadre de I'amelioration des procedures de passation des marches publics, un contrat
d'un montant de 116.920.000 FCFA (soit 153.477 DTS) a ete signe avec le Cabinet Services
Management Systems (SMS) pour l'etude des goulots d'etranglement a la consommation des
credits. Malheureusement, cette etude, qui a pu produire son rapport intermediaire, n'a pu etre
acheve pour des raisons independantes de l'organe d'execution du Projet.
De plus, le Projet a eu a assurer Ia forrmation des cadres de I'Agence par Louis Berger S.A.
Ra)pport da ch,v ,nt, nt It 1'r(yet dex Travauxr d'I,,gerOt Public - t ndjit 26l4-tI)  - 3-
- 25 -



Les contrats d'etudes, de travaux, de supervision, de fournitures et de prestations de services
qui ont et  passes suivant des procedures d'appel a  ia concurrence, confornnment aux
directives de la Banque Mondiale, compte tenu de la rapidite et de la transparence qui les ont
caracterise, ont apporte un plus dans le sens de ['amelioration des procedures couramment
utilisees ici, lesquelles paraissent longues et peu transparentes. Meme si quelques
insuffisances ont e   constatees au niveau de la redaction des dossiers d'appel d'offres et/ou
de la surveillance des travaux, ces insuffisalnces sont essentiellement dues a la jeunesse de
I'Agence d'execution et de certains de ses partenaires (P.M.E. et bureaux d'rtudes) et au
volume de sous-projets a grrer a la fois et dans un temps assez lirnite.
Cette mrnthode de passation des marches (surtout au niveau du temps) a et appreciee par
beaucoup de partenaires du Projet.
B.   REALISATION PHYSIQUE
La realisation physique des diff6rents volets (sous-projets) du Projet a et faite suivant les
grandes lignes definies dans l'Accord de Credit.
Les donn6es relatives a chaque composante et chaque type de sous-projets sont donn6es ci-
apres.
B.1     Volet Travaux d'interet public (2.450.000 DTS)
L'aspect travaux de ce volet est resume dans le tableau ci-dessous:
TABLEAU NO I
N-   ENTREPRISE                  DESIGNATION DES TRAVAUX          MONTANT    BUT D'ORIGINE    REALISAT.
01   AS-SEDE                     Caniveau Av. Revolution          38.121.656    Voir designalion  Comme preue
02   ENTREP. GEN. D'EQ.          Caniveau Bokassa ouest lot 2     33.849.865    Voir designation  Comme prevue
03   ENTREP. DE CONST. BAT.    Construction Ecole Chagoua 1       19.586.080    Voir designation  Comme prevue
04   ENTREP. DE BATI REFEC       Caniveau rue d'Ati               32.131.987    Voir designation  Comme prevue
05   COM. ENTP.DE BAT            Curage 2 eme urgence lot 2       27.040.775    Voir designation  Comme prdvue
06   COM. ENTRPDE BAT            Rehab. Ecole Repos               15.147.400    Voirdesignation  Comme prevue
07   ENTREP. SALEH DJIDOA        Construction caniveau Av. Revolution   29.189.100    Voir designation  Comme prnvue
08   CICIBA                      Caniveau 5006 (5017 - 5023)      16.828.700    Voir designation  Comme prevue
09   IBRAHIM MAHAMAT AB.         Rehab. de la Morgue              19.729.331    Voir designation  Comme prnvue
10   ENTREP. GEN. DES TRAV       Collect .Nimeiry cdt6 Est        36.536.200    Voir designation  Comme prbvue
I I   ENTREP. RAMADANE           Centre de sant d'Ardebdjoumal    37.925.428    Voir designation    Autre site
12   ENTREP. CONST.SOUD.         Construction caniveau rue Comiche    30.837.500    Voir designalion  Comme pr6vue
13   ENTREP.GARBA SEID           Caniveau rue 471314718 Repos     14.922.460    Voir designation  Comme prevue
14   GROUPDES TRAV.              Rehab. caniveau rue 5053 lot 2    9.731.769    Voir designation  Comme prewe
Rapport d achi'vepnent dii Porqjet des 7rava.rl  d  I,,ir. ;ublic - ('r.uit 2614-('D)                       - 4 -
- 26 -



15   ENTREP.GEN.DE CONST.         Construction bcole AmdguAb4       21.406.230    Voir designation   Comme prhvue
16   KOIMA CONSTR.                Enl6venment ordures menageres     16.270.000    Voir designation   Comme prevue
17   BAT. CONST. HYDRAU.          Rehab. Ecole Leclerc A            15.666.219    Voir designation   Comme prhvue
18   MAHAMAT KOTOKO               Rehab. Ecole Leclerc B            16,984.180    Voir d6signation   Comme prevue
19   ABDOU MAHAMAT                Construction latines publ.Idep6toirs    16.241.680    Voir designation  Comme prbvue
20   AMA8                         Equipements Morgue                23.220.000    Voir designation   Comme pr6vue
21   CIC-TCHAD                    Curage 1'- urgence lol 1           19.840.750    Voir designation  Comme prevue
22   ENTREP. LA MONTAGNE          Const. caniv. Av. Revolution      68 728.500    Voir d6signaton    Comme prevue
23   ENTREP. LA MONTAGNE          Caniv betonnes Rue 2118           49 963.740    Voir designation   Comme prevue
24   SO TCHAD DE TOPO.            Constr collec. second. rue 5006 lot 1   28.574.720    Voir designalion  Comme prevue
25   SO TCHAD DE TOPO.            Constr collec second. tue 5006 lot 2   48.693.090  Voir designation  Comme prevue
26   CYCLO-TCHAD                  Ameub. ecoles ChagoualAmriguebe    12.282.050    Volr designation  Comme prevue
27   SO T.COC                     Caniv. Rue 4675 lot 1              40 226.954    Voir designation  Comme prevue
28   SO.T.COC                     Caniv. Revolution Exutoire         25.704.337    Voir designation  Comme prevue
29   JETC                         Rehab. Caniv. rue 2100              9.962.502    Voirdesignation   Comme prevue
30   EGCAB                        Caniv. Rue 2150                    25.395.914    Voir designation  Comme prevue
31   STECHE                       Pose des Ovolides Exutoire Secadev   10.520.000    Voir designation  Comrne prevue
32   ENTREP. MATCO                Caniv. Revolut. (5096 - 5100)      27.298.075    Voir d6signation  Comme pr6vue
33   BA.MA.CON                    Rehab. Genie Sanitaire             22.472.310    Voir designation  Comme prevue
34   ENTREP. T.P ROUDA            Rehab. caniv. Rue 5022 lot 3       38.380.236    Voir dbsignation  Comme pr6vue
35   ENTREP. EBCAT                Const Creche Moursal               39.814.050    Centre social n1   Qtier Moursal
36   ENTREP. EGCM                 Rehab. Caniv. Rue du Canal         22.240.400    Voir d6signation  Comme pr6vue
37   ENTREP.LE BATISSEUR          Caniv. Rdvoluton (Mobutu - 5096)   35.923.763    Voir designation  Comme pr6vue
38   ENTREP. EGCM                 Collect. Second. Rue Moll lot 2    40.769.200    Voir d6signation  Comme prevue
39   ENTREP.BAT. ET PEINT.        Exutoire de SECADEV                34.178.238    Vorl dAsignation  Comme prevue
40   ENTREP.GESBA                 Rehab. Caniv . Rue 4709 lot 1      11.795.780    Voir designation  Comme prevue
41    ENTREP.EGE                  Salle de rtunion M.A.T.             6.495.463    Voir designation  Comme prAvue
42   ENTREP.EGB                   Reprse des travaux dAbena           7.487.200    Voir d6signation  Comme prAvue
43   ENTREP.ABDER.IDRISS          Caniv. Rue 2002 Sabangali          18.457.275    Voir dsignation   Comrmeprevue
44   ENTREP.EGENIC                 Collect. Nimeiry cotb Ouest       37.709.200    Voir d6signation  Comme pr6vue
45   ENTREP.CHEHERAZADE           Caniv RUES 467514694 lot 2         18.852.205    Voir designation  Comme prAvue
46   ENTREP.ALSALAMA              Caniv . Rue 5047-5096              17.996.628    Voir d6signation  Comme pr4vue
47   MAIS.D'EQUIP.MAINT.          Collect. Second Rue Moll lot 1     41.560.000    Av.CharlesDegau.  Av. moll
48   SECAT                        Caniv. Rue 5100                    29.297.600    Vodr designation  Comme prAvue
49   AOUZOU SARL                  Constr Ecole Matemelle Farcha      31.575.720    Voir designation  Comme prevue
50   SOCIETE RAKIS SARL           Centre de sante d'Abena            31.111.589    Qter Abena        Autre site
51    ETS M.N.N.IBTP              Constr Caniv. Rue 3275             49.347.800    Voir designation  Cormme prevue
52   EGTBIM                       Caniv. Bokassa Ouest lot 1         28.311.622    Voir d6signation  Comme pr6vue
53   ALMAHADI                     Amrnagement espace vert             9.819.200    Voir designation  Comme pr6vue
54   GETB                         Caniv. Rue 1212 Farcha             28.105.850    Voir d6signation  Comme prevue
55   E.M.E.C                      Caniv. Rue 5100 (5041-Contoumem.)  16.708.121    Vor designabon    Comme prAvue
56   E.M.T                         Caniv, Rue 1227 Farrha            32.467.390    Voir d6signation  Comme prlvue
57   SOCIETE BEST CONST.          Exutoire Rue 5006                  15.824.196    Voir designation  Comme pr6vue
Rcq,pvrl sI yyo/ulh svme,rt dit Prijet I/e- Vrcmi,ix  ct'Iucni Phlic - ('i.ljii 2614-('1)                       . -5
- 27 -



58  ATEGUE                 Cani . BD des SAO          32.347.000   Voir d6signation
59  AKHOUNA                Bureau de la Cooperation    5.595.149   Voir d6signaton
60  Associat. des Parents d'6EIves Convention mur de dl6ture  4 .046.706   Voir d6signation
B.2    Assistance technique-entreprises (370.000 DTS)
L'assistance technique-entreprises a consiste en la formation apportee aux P.M.E., bureaux
d'etudes, et aux cadres de ['administration et comites d'assainissement.
B.3    Formation des beneficiaires
Ce volet prevu pour la formation des cadres de l'Administration, des Mairies et membres des
comit6s d'assainissement n'a pas et realise parce que le volet ci-dessus avait pris en compte
cet aspect.
B.4    Participation communautaire (50.000 DTS)
Les ressources prevues pour ce volet ont ete utilisees pour faire des campagnes de
sensibilisation (slogans et messages de sensibilisation) a la radiodiffusion nationale, a la
television nationale et dans les joumaux locaux. Un sketch a ete monte par la television
nationale et des campagnes de sensibilisation sur le terrain, soutenus par des articles
publicitaires (T-shirts, casquettes, calendriers, pins) ont ete egalement organisees dans les cinq
arrondissements municipaux que contenait alors la ville de N'Djamena.
B.5    Suivi (100.000 DTS)
Le volet o< suivi >> a permis aux differentes missions d'audit de suivre les operations et
depenses de l'Agence.
B.6    Reforme de la passation des marches (140.000 DTS)
Pour ce volet, I'Agence a signd un contrat d'un montant de 116.920.000 FCFA soit 153.477
DTS avec le Cabinet Services Management System (SMS) pour I'etude des goulots
d'etranglement a la consommation des credits. Cette etude n'a malheureusement pas ete
achevee pour des raisons independantes de I'Agence d'execution.
B.7    Depenses d'exploitation supplementaires (620.000 DTS)
Ce volet correspond aux depenses de fonctionnement de l'Agence.
?aj,p,o,t d avvew,seni ensh Prqict sdes 1rra&LXti lntJrCt Public - (r:d/it 261J4-(D      .6-
- 28 -



B.8  Installation et dotation en materiel (220.000 DTS )
Ce volet concerne Ics d6penses relatives a l'installation et a l'acquisition du mobilier, du
materiel informatique et roulant dont la grande partie se trouve encore dans un bon etat.
B.9   Remboursement avance PFF (140.000 DTS)
Le Projet a paye 140.000 DTS au litre de remboursement de l'avance PFF.
C.    DEVELOPPEMENT PENDANT LA PERIODE Dl PROJET
Le developpement observe pendant la periode du Projet se resumne comme suit:
* Au niveau de la creation des emplois et de l'utilisation intensive de la main d'oeuvre
La plupart des sous-projets realises ont permis la creation d'un bon nombre d'emplois meme
s'ils ont ete de duree limitee. Par exemple, les travaux de la premiere banque financement
IDA ont cree au moins 6228 hommesjour d'emplois et verse au moins 199.021.767 FCFA de
salaires aux ouvriers. Tous ces travaux ont ete executes avec une utilisation intense de la main
d'ceuvre.
Les ressources generees de ces emplois ont permis aux beneficiaires d'ameliorer leurs
conditions de vie.
* Au niveau de la maitrise d'ouvrage par l'Agence
La mise en oeuvre de ce Projet a permis de constater qu'en confiant la maitrise d'ouvrage de
certains projets a l'Agence, I'Administration et les autres maitres d'ouvrages ont vu, d'une
part, leur realisation rapide et, d'autre part, ont eu le temps d'initier ou de negocier d'autres
projets.
* Au niveau l'amelioration de la qualite des ouvriers et des entreprises
La realisation du volet Travaux publics du Projet a permis aux ouvriers et differents
travailleurs de ce secteur d'acquerir une experience appreciable qui peut, par la suite, leur
permettre d'ameiorer la qualite de leurs prestations.
D.    LA REALISATION FINANCIERE
La realisation fin.mciere s'est faite en suivant d'une maniere generale les previsions de
depenses faites au niveau des differents volets definis dans l'Accord de credit.
Ruj,1wri d *14/h ,e,an uii Prqjiel des Travau.m  t rl&cro I'Pulic - ( .-di; 2614-( C  - 7 -
- 29 -



Au regard du tableau financier du Projet, on peut faire les constats suivants:
- les depenses correspondant aux volets Travaux dinteret public, Assistance technique-
entreprises, Reforme de la passation des marches et Suivi du Projet tournent autour des
28% des previsions ; ceci s'explique par le fait que l'execution du Projet a connu un
ralentissement puis une suspension moins de 18 mois apres son lancement effectif;
- les depenses d'exploitation ont atteint 86% des previsions ; en effet, malgre la suspension
des autres volets, le Projet a continue a fonctionner sur le Credit jusqu'au 30 avril 1998;
- les depenses d'installation ont atteint les 75% des previsions ; cela s'explique par le fait
que le Projet s'est equipe (en mobilier, materiel de transport et materiel fixe) des les
premiers mois de son demarrage ; et
- le remboursement avance PPF ont ete executes a 92 % par rapport aux previsions, soit la
totalite de l'avance consentie.
La difficulte qui a apparu au cours de la realisation financiere conceme les depenses dites
u non iligibles )> faites par l'Agence et qui se chiffrent A 234.228.093 FCFA soit 307.465 DTS
dont la Banque demande le remboursement. Le tableau n° 5 donnant les details de ces
d'penses se trouve en annexe.
Apres la suspension des decaissements, un certain nombre de services auraient ete
commandes par I'Agence a la demande de Banque, notamment le recrutement d'un consultant
(AGETUR-Benin) pour l'analyse des offres techniques et financieres de la tranche prioritaire
de la deuxieme banque de sous-projets, pour le recrutement d'un directeur technique et d'un
directeur administratif et financier et pour 1'evaluation du systeme financier et comptable de
l'ATETIP ; toutes ces prestations ont ete rendues et le consultant demande le reglement de sa
facture (11.812.000 FCFA).
Le tableau financier (tableau n° 2 ) en annexe donne un resume de l'execution financiere du
Projet.
III. ANALYSE DES PERFORMANCES
A-   ENVIRONNEMENT NATIONAL
Sur le plan national, le Projet a ete surtout bien apprecie par les partenaires directs ( P.M.E.,
bureaux d'etudes et comites d'assainissement locaux), les autres etant peu ou moins informes
des objectifs et missions de l'Agence.
Rapprrt dXabsdtvemen du Projet des 7ravwut d'h,rt&:rit l'ubliR - fr,Fdil 2614-C- 8 -
- 30 -



Bien que dans le cadre de la mise en place du Projet, beaucoup de contacts et reunions aient
eu lieu avec les differents responsables de differents services etatiques ainsi qu'avec les
operateurs economiques, la mission de l'Agence semble n'avoir pas 0t6 totalement comprise
ou acceptde au niveau de certains services publics dont la plupart avaient d6ji des structures
de types o cellule)) pour la gestion des projets qui dependent de leur departement ou
institution; d'ou une grande campagne d'information et de persuasion aupres des
departements concernes ainsi qu'une volonte politique determinante s'averent indispensables
pour cr6er un environnement national propice a I'execution et A la reussite dudit projet.
Toutefois, la realisation des differents ouvrages et infrastructures a permis par la suite a
beaucoup de personnes de comprendre le but et le bien-fonde de l'Agence ; en effet, pour
certains, I'Agence est venue leur arracher leurs projets.
B-    PERFORMANCE DE L'ADMINISTRATION
Compte tenu de l'implication limitee de l'Administration dans le Projet, limitation voulue par
l[Accord de Credit, il est difficile de parler de la perfornance de l'Administration car son role
se limitait tout simplement, A travers le Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation qui assure la
tutelle du Projet, A accorder quelques facilites A ce demier, notamrnent: (a) 1'exoneration de
tout droit, taxe, ou prelevement d'effet equivalent, applicables a l'importation des materiaux,
materiels, equipements, etc., (b) 1'exemption de tout imp6t, taxe, ou prelevement d'effet
equivalent, da par l'Agence en sa qualite d'employeur, sur les traitements, salaires,
indemnites, etc., (c) les avantages que le Gouvernement accorde ou viendrait A accorder aux
ONG, etc.
N6anmoins, on a constate que, I'Administration n'a pas pris a temps certains textes relatifs au
regime douanier et fiscal de l'Agence, ce qui a ete l'une des causes de la suspension du Projet.
Vu l'independance de gestion et de fonctionnement devolue A l'Agence par l'Accord de
Credit, I'Administration ne se sentait que concemre de loin par les problemes de l'Agence;
c'est peut-etre ce qui explique le retard observe dans la prise des textes devant permettre a
l[Agence de fonctionner selon les conditions prevues par I'Accord de Credit.
C-    PERFORMANCE DE L'AGENCE
Au regard du volume des travaux rdalises, on peut estimer que l'Agence a fait de son mieux
afin d'etre a la hauteur de sa mission.
Rap'port d 'erewmenu.h,,t du Prr?jet des 7 raIl te dS If,er0t Public - < 'rdit 2614-('D  -
- 31 -



Bien sur, il y a eu quelques manquements et divergences qui sont apparues entre elle et la
Banque au sujet d'un certain nombre de depenses non acceptees (ugees ineligibles) par celle-
ci compte de leur nature, d6penses dont le montant total s'eleve A 234.228.093 FCFA. 11 y a eu
egalement la non-application de certaines recommandations des missions de suivi du Projet
eftectuees en mai, octobre et d6cembre 1996, entrainant la suspension des decaissements
suivant le Fax N° 23646 en date du 15 avril 1997. Mais certains points accomplis par
l'Agence sont remarquables et meritent d etre mentionnes, notamment: (a) ia gestion
technique du Projet, (b) la passation des contrats, le suivi et le contr6le des travaux des sous-
projets, (c) certains cas de gestion de delegation de maitrise d'ouvrages, etc.
La performance de l Agence aurait pu etre meilleure si, compte tenu de sajeunesse. elle etait
entouree par des bureaux d'etudes et P.M.E. assez experimentes pouvant valablement Ilaider
dans les missions d'etudes, de suivi et d'execution qu'elle leur a confiees, lui laissant ainsi
assez de temps pour s'occuper des aspects tels que la planification et ia gestion administrative,
technique et financiere.
L'un des problemes qu'a eu I'Agence, reside dans la difficult& qu'elle eprouve a produire a
temps certains documents (rapports d'activites, d'audit et autres documents necessaires)
demandes par la Banque; ceci a egalement et l'un des elements ayant conduit A la suspension
du Projet.
D-  PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
A travers les differents documents du Projet, on remarque que la Banque a, en grande partie.
rempli ses obligations vis-A-vis du Projet; les directives A suivre et la conduite A tenir, la mise
en  place  des fonds necessaires au  Projet, les differentes missions d'evaluation  et
recommandations qui ont eu lieu en temoignent.
Toutefois, vu que dans la pratique, c'est la Banque seule qui pouvait suivre directement le
Projet, on peut deplorer qu'elle n'ait pu faire des propositions concretes pour remedier aux
manquements de ['Agence d'execution du Projet jusqu'A ce que cette situation conduise A
l'arret total du Projet.
R,ipslyr: d, 'c/uvemewn/I duh Pri/erdes 7ia uxr d lner6i.? Public - (ral, t6/4-C!)    - 1/1-
-   32 -



E.    PERFORMANCE DES P.M.E., BUREAUX D'ETUDES ET DES AUTRES
PARTENAIRES
Performance des P.M. E.
Le Projet a eu A utiliser soixante (60) entreprises dans le cadre de la realisation des differents
travaux du volet Travaux publics. Parmi celles-ci, 70% sont nouvelles et ont eu leurs premiers
chantiers grace au Projet. Elles ont neanmoins fait de leur mieux pour venir a bout des travaux
qui leur ont ete confi6s et cela avec l'appui du contr6le (meme si la qualite des prestations n'a
pas toujours ete a la hauteur des attentes). Au total, le Projet a eu A passer soixante-dix (70)
contrats avec difterentes entreprises pour les travaux, I equipement et 1'am6nagement; et ces
contrats ont ete dans l'ensemble executes A 98%. Sauf deux cas de resiliation ont ete constates
dans le cas des sous-projets finances par l'IDA.
Performance des bureaux d'itudes
Sur les quinze (15) bureaux d'etudes qui ont eu A travailler avec l'Agence tout au long de ce
Projet, quatre (4) seulement sont anciens et ont une experience remarquable ; les autres ont vu
le jour avec le Projet et cela a ete a la base de certains manquements au niveau des etudes ou
des suivis qui leur ont ete confies. Le manque de moyens de travail adequats (materiels
informatiques. moyens roulants, etc.) a ete l'une des difficultes des bureaux d'etudes.
Performance des autres partenaires
D'autres partenaires tels que les associations des parents d'eleves ont eu A signer de petites
,conventions avec le Projet et les ont bien realisees.
IV. IMPACTS DU PROJET
. A-    IMPACTS SOCIAUX
Sur le plan social, le Projet a eu un impact positif dans plusieurs domaines:
Dans le domaine du renforcement des capacites locales
Le Projet a permis un reveil dans le domaine des batiments et travaux publics et a permis
d'accroitre les capacites locales grace A l'experience acquise a travers l'execution des sous-
projets.
Rapp1ort d acNluven'ew du Pro.et des dTravawc d 1nt;r&uL Public - (r,.lit 261 4-CO )  - 11 -
- 33 -



Dans le domaine de 1 entrelien des infrastructures
La plupart des infrastructures publiques rehabilitees par le Projet etaient deja dans un etat de
delabrement accentue et leur rehabilitation a ete favorablement accueillie par les maitres
d'ouvrages et les usagers, notamment au niveau des centres sociaux, dispensaires et ecoles.
Poar I'amilioration des procei(ures die passation des marciues publics
Le Projet a egalement permis l'utilisation des nmthodes de passation des mnarches assez
rapides et transparentes par rapport aux methodes habituelles.
On peut deplorer ici que l'etude des goulots d'etranglement a la consommation des credits
n ait pu etre menee a son terme. Neanmoins, les conclusions de son rapport intermediaire
peuvent etre d'une grande utilite.
B-   AUTRES IMPACTS
DOns le domaine de Ia lhtte contre le chbmange
Le Projet a cree beaucoup d'emplois temporaires pendant sa phase d'activites, ce qui a permis
de resorber le ch6mage.
Dans le domaine de la salubrite.
U'enlevement des ordures par le Projet a permis de rendre la ville propre et de lutter contre
l'insalubrite, la pollution, aidant ainsi a l'amrlioration des conditions d'hygiene. Cela a permis
de sensibiliser la population qui, aujourd'hui, s'organise en petits groupes ou comites pour
rendre leur entourage propre.
V. CONCLUSIONS
A-   LA PERENNISATION DU PROGRAMME ET DES INVESTISSEMENTS
En depit des difficultes rencontrees dans la gestion du Projet par I'Agence d'execution,
difficultes ayant entraine la suspension des decaissements puis la ci6ture du Credit, la
perennisation du programme et des investissements s'avere necessaire parce que cela a permis
de resoudre beaucoup de problemes sur les plans social (lutte contre le ch6mage et
rehabilitation des infrastructures sensibles), economique (source de revenus) et technique
(renforcement des capacites locales).
Rapport . ;./wVveJ'.tt *1, Proyjet ds Travmf el WrIt t ,li pi. - (; d/it 2614-Cl)  - 12(
- 34 -



De plus, la plupart des investissements faits par le Projet (rehabilitation ou construction des
centres sociaux, dispensaires, hopitaux, bureaux, etc.) sont des investissements a caractere
social et repondent bien aux attentes et besoins des beneficiaires. C'est pourquoi leur
perennisation pourra permettre, d'une part, d'appuyer encore les diff6rents domaines
concernes (lutte contre le chomage, renforcement des capacites locales, entretien des
infrastructures) et, d'autre part, de rechercher et recenser de commun accord avec la Banquie et
les autres partenaires d'autres domaines d'interveltion necessaires.
B-   LES LEDONS POUR LE FUTUR
Les principales lecons a tirer de ce Projet pour le futur sont les suivantes
*  ne pas laisser un projet demarrer tant que les points sensibles tels que  (a) le statut
juridique (dans le cas de I'Agence), (b) le type de plan comptable et, (c) la nomination
d'un commissaire aux comptes ne sont pas remplis;
* rappeler au projet (agence d'execution), des les premiers manquements, les risques qu'il
court et lui demander d'y remedier aussit6t;
* planifier des missions de suivi assez rapprochees au debut du projet avec mandat de
proposer des solutions concretes aux premieres difficult6s qui apparaitront.
* avant la suspension de decaissements pour non respect des conditions d'un accord de
credit, voir dans quelle mesure on peut, dans un premier temps, mettre le projet ou
l' institution en demeure.
Rapport clerchc'ie,vnent dus Projet dtie Trtllar dliberet Public - (ritfir 2614-C      -3
- 35 -



TABLEAU No 2
Cr 2614-CO ICR
Tableaux financiers
Annexe 2: CoOts et financement du Projet
CoOt du Projet par volet (en million de DTS)
en millions de DTS
Volet                                                      Cout projete    CoOt reel       % Ecart
Travaux d'interet public                                           8,55            2,45           29%
Assistance technique - entrepnses                                  1,92            0,37           19%
Formation des beneficiaires                                        0,20            0,00            0%
Participa6on communautaire                                         0,18            0,05           28%
suivi                                                              0,34            0,10           28%
Reforme de la passation des marches                                0,48            0,14           29%
Dbpenses d'exploitation supplementaires                            0,72            0,62           86%
Installation et dotation en materiel                               0,30            0,22           75%
Remboursement avance PPF                                           0,15            0,14           92%
CoOt de base                    12,85           4,09           32%
Imprevu                                                            0,26            0,00            0%
CoOt total du Projet            13,11           4,09           31%
Total financ. necessaire        13,11           4,09            31%
- 36 -



(LO)                  (oo'0)                (55, O                (Zt'Z)                (oo'0)
00'0                  00'0                  00'0                  00'0                  00'0                                                   U        Sl 9
(00'0)                  (0'0)               (00'0)  .             (0oo.0                 (00'0.
K;O                   00 0                  bl O                  00 0                  00 0                                             3dddluaw9sJnoqwaj -9
(oo;oZ  .......  (oo;ol ........5 ; (             .oo .7....... .(R o  ...... .(oo;o)                      .................................................................................
0000                   000                   000                  00 0                  00 0                                                              ,nolle UON '9
lzs;o)        ......            .........  5z;61 .........                               (oo ........ o).......  ............................................................................
00o0                  00o0                  00 0                  00 0                  00 0                                            uo!lpl!oldxa,p saB6eq4D 
'5    ~........  '(6            ........ .( ,         ........ ..... '6,,  ..,.....  , 7-- - ..-..,..... .............................................................................
ii9'0    (0')                    99'0)               (oo'o)                (coo0)
00 0                  00 0                  00 0                  00 0                  00 0                                                                SaD!Muas E
....                  6         (...o )                                                 (000) ( ;  ........     .( ;) 7   6   ,,.,,,   ............................................................................
000                   00o0o                  00.0                 ooo                  0oo'                                                             saeni!wnoj z
00'0                  00'0                  00'0                  00'0                  00'0                                        soilqndSao!AJ2SlxnEAeJI L
0elol 1)0I   VOl UON                              eanV                 1OV    IlO V                                                       ROMd nP IuOw93
(S3a ap suowillw ue) tapiew ap sdAi jed lW!oJd np laaJ lno)
(0z'9)                                      (0Z'9)
SV I1 O                                                                                                                                 d  dd 1U9wasJfOqWa8d 9
L£ O)      (     L       £      °5  1               ....... ~~........
(Lz,o)                         ~~~(Lto)
9Z'0                                         9Z'O                                                                                                       an011B uON 'S
ZZLO                                        ZL'O                                                                                        uoqel!oldxa,p saBjeIDb-
.()............. ............ ...... (;s....... .................. ......... .......... .................. ....... ....................................... .....................................
(Z')............. ...................... (ZZ'O ........... ......................... ......................... ............................................................................
00 00                                           0                                                                                                      saJnl!ujnof   z
,(9   6  ........    .(ii   ;O-) ..............   ......................    .S t;Z).......    .........................   ............................................................................
96,6                  bl Z                                        t9 Z                                                            s3!iqnd sam!AJegs/leAeJj I
elol              VOl UON                    4nV                 1                                                                        laOJd lnp 1uawail
(sia op suoiniw us) gjUew op odA) jed PIOJd np lauuois!iA9d no3



D6calssament par catfgors (en millions de DTS)
Catgorie                                    Montant estimi       Montant realise         % Ecart
IDA   Gouv. Cofin.  IDA   Gouv. Cofin.  IDA   Gouv. Cofin.
Travaux publics                            7,84   0,71   8,55   2,45   0,14   0,00   31%   20%      0%
Assistance technique                       1,92   0,00   1,92   0,37   0,00   0,00   19%            0%
Formation beneficiaires                    0,20   0,00   0,20   0,00   0,00   0,00    0%           0%
Participation communautaires               0,18   0,00   0,18   0,05   0,00   0,00   28%           0%
Suivi du Projet                            0,34   0,00   0,34   0,10   0,00   0,00   29%            0%
Reforme passaton des marches               0,48   0,00   0,48   0,14   0,00   0,00   29%           0%
Charges d'exploit. suppi. de 'Agence       0,72   0,00   0,72   0,62   0,00   0,00   86%           0%
Instaliaton et dotaUon en materiei         0,30   0,00   0,30   0,22   0,00   0,00   74%            0%
Remboursement PPF                          0,15   0,00   0,15   0,14   0,00   0,00   92%            0%
- 38 -



Audit des operations et depenses de I'ATETIP                                                                              Tableau N° 5
Quelques observations sur les depenses d'operations non 6ligibles
Credit 2416-CD
Numhro  Disignation                                    Montant        Ralson rejet                                  Observation ATETIP
Etrdes RAvol. cotA Est, 5100 crte Sud, racrord.col.
devant ATETIP et am6nag. parc. Avenant ActatA entre  Le mDntant du contrat est de 3.662 500 FCFA et non 3.462-500 conmea rindique le rappor de
T1214    Avenant au contrat 00595PTS                          24 901  plusdeurs proets fTl72 A T176). Lavenant nidentifre pas GIAMI. Les paiements effeclu6s ssee ent bient 3.662.500. 1 n'y a pas eu daverrants.
isolbrnent les prets. Total aven.: 3.462.500; Total
prqets: 3.487.401 ; Ecart 24.901.
T1215    contrat 0030PTS95                                     3600  Dossier incompet; Tota engagd (2.196.040) sup6deur Le dossier existe. Le montant du contrat du contrat est bien 2.160.040. Les paiement eftectues
0 Taurontrat (2.160,040).                     par la comptabillt& sAlAvent bien A 2.196.040. 11 y a donc depassement de 36.000.
Prestations engag6es sans contrat btabli.La
.186    Posa de buse ovoidas esutorre SECAD202 447  romsptabiite n'a enregstrb aucun rbgleent relatif au   La comptabilitbinet ne reconnait pas avoir ettectue un paiement de ce mnontant comme ra draieurs
TtOB6    Pose de buses ovldes exutoke SECADEV                202 447  decompte n- 1 du 07/07196 tabli pare  service  indiqu a consulftant dans son rapport
.                           ~~~~~~~operalio.
T1078   E,itudes Corsbrction ecoe materfleh Farcha, dltu          30  Paiernnt supereur au montant du contrat       Parernent de 4.626.735 ptbol inlAneur au montant du contrat qui est de 4.626.765.
0  cole rArdep-Douinal. crache centre social n' 1
To62    Etudes rehabitafion 6coles Lecerc et Repos             7 200  Paiement superieur au montant du contrat      Avenant non signe d'un montant de 7.200
La situation laife parbl comptabilite fait ressorfir un reliqual de 222.421 FCFA surb lenontantdu
1182    Fommation in6itciaires Louis Beager S.A.              8 000  Aucun motif.                                  contrat. LAgence na donc pas etlectue une depense sup6rieure au contraL II s'agit cedtaineent
_            _ ~~~~~d'une erreur du consulfant.
Ce mnontant devrad pbutot etre pris sur la ligne Ti 1 67 qui conceme le suivi cte la pose d'otohds
T1233    contrat 039/SUPlIOA/96 et avenant mixte              44 836  paiment sup6rieur au montant du contrat       par BEGRS. En effet il y a eu accord 'verbar entre ATETIP et BEGRS pour le suM de ces
I       travaux. Cet accord n'a pas Wte concretise par un avenant.
Crkche de Moursat. Transtent opere A a demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec raccord de tIDA
Tll?7   contrat 010/SUP/IDA/96 at avenant n- 1              2 028 447  Chantbr transfir sans avenant                (A1re banque de sous-prolets reactualis6e)
Criche de Moursal. Translert op6re A la demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec faOrd de riDA
Tl118    contrat O10/SUMItDA196 atlavanant n- 1              492 177  Chan6er tnsf  sans avenant                    (1re banque de sous-projets riactualisee)
T1121    contrat017/SUMPfDA/96 et avenant n-               1 596 904  Chantier transW6ri sans avenant              Centre de santA dArdapdiomud Transfent optre a la demande du Maitre dcOuvrae avec
11121    contrat                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~racconi de rlDA (1itre banque de sous-projets ricactualisee)
1122    contral 017ISUP/DA/96 et avenant n- 1               794 625  Chantier transfiri sans avenant               Centre de sartLA dArdepdgoad. Transfent opera a la demande du Maitre dOuvrage avec
racrd de riDA (lire banque de sous-projets ritactualisite)
Centre de santb d'Ab&na. Translent oper a ila demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec taoord de
Tl240    contrat O17ISUPItDAJ96 at avenant n 1              1 596228  Chant'ertransletiiD sansAavenant             IrDA (1tre banque de sous-projets reactualis6e)
Centre de sante dAb6tna. Transiert opera Ala demande dru Maitre dOuvrage avec raccord de
241    rontrat 0171SUPADA/96 et avenant n- 1                794 288  Chante transfr6 sans avenant                 rnDA (lbre banque de sous-projets rbactualisee)



contrat 014/SUPADA.96 ; suivi Chades de Gaulle                                                                    Transfen opere avec l'accord du Maitre d'ouvrage et suite a l'impossibilite d'executer rouvrage sUI
T1230    transtere                  C Moil                     4 633 434   Chanlier trans/bre sans avenant                  ravenue Charies de Gaulle comme prevu. Accord de l'IDA pour Transferl ala rue Domano,
malheureusement les travaux ont ele executes d la rue Moll.
Travaux ; Morgue / G6nie Sanitaire / Bureau de la                                   ~~~~~~~~Impossible. Les etats de gestion au nriveau du HIBTP font ressortir rapplication d'une moins-value
T1060    Travaux Mongue GenieSanitaire/BureaudeIa                 392 159  Paiement superieur montant contral               de 88.000  la fn des travau. Comment I'Agunce pourrait-elle faire une mains-value et payer
plus que le contrat.
TtO54    Travaux; Amenagement espace vert                         497 DO   Paiement sup6rieur aux engagements               Pas d'avenant justifiant ce depassement
(contratssavenants)                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
11 existe une convention signee entre l'Agence et l'APE de l'ecole Annexe. Mais il n'y a pas
T1061    Ecutithon mur de dofure icote annexe d'Ardep-Dpoumal    240 942  Pas de contrat                                    d'avenant justifiant ce depassement
Creche de Moursal. Transfert opere a la demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec raocord de rIDA
T1035    Traeasux  Creche Moursal                             39 814 050   Chantier transftrti sans avenant                 (1(re banque de sous-projets reactualisee)
T1039    Travaux; Exuloire SECADEV lot 2                        1 998 530   Engag. non juslifiW superieur au contrat        Travaux supplementaires executes sans avenant signe.
TtO42    Reprise travaux d'Ab6na                               7 487 200   Chanlier transf6r,& sans avenant                 toReprise Centene sanri dAbena. Transfert opere a la demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec
Tt042  Reprise travuax dAbtina  7487200   Chantier transfere nuns acenant                    'accordorddee lDADA(lereebanqqeedeessouspproeetsreaccuualisee
T1015    Construction ecoe d'Amringueb                         2 797 680   Travaux suppl. sans avenant                      Travaux supplementaires executes sans avenant signe.
O                                                                                                                                           Transfert optre avec raccord du Maitre daouarcge et suite a l'impossibilite d'excuter rouvrage su
T1038                                                         40 769 200   Chantier transttr6 sans avenant                  I'avenue Chares de Gaulle comme prevu. Accord de l'IDA pour Transfert t la rue Domano,
Travaux Rue Moll lot 2                                                                                            malheureusement les travaux ont let executes a la rue Moll.
T1002    Travaux Caniveaux Bokassa iot 2                         484 585  Engag. non justifi6 sup6rieur au contrat          Travaux suppl6mentaires executes sans avenant signe.
TiO11    Travaux Centre sanI6 Ardep-Dpournal blo 2            37 925 428   Chantier transf6r6 sans avenanl                  Centre de santv dArdepdjoumal. Transfert oper a la demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec
11011  Tranaun Centresant&Ardep-Djosmalft2  37925428   Cbantietransftirtisunsaaennordadeordde                (lDA e( benbunqde dousxprojetets reacuuliisee
L'original sigun de ravenant a 6te retrouve. 11 n est pas date, neanmoins le mois de septembre
T1016    Entevement ordures m6nagervs CB12/13 lot 3            6 270 000   Cople avenant non daeL de 6.270.000              1995 esf indique sur la page de garde.
T1210    Curage 2bmv urgence fot 1                                36 000  Erreur de saisie: 12.204.000 au lieu de 12.240.000    Erreur de saisie sur le HIOTP
Transfed opere avec I'accord du Maitre d'ouvrage et suite a rimpossibilite d'executer rouvrage su
T1D47    Travaux rue Moll lot 1                               41 560 000   Chanlier transfbrt sans avenant                  I'avenue Chares de Gaulle comme prevu Accord de l'IDA pour Transfett a a rue Domano,
malheureusement les travaux ont ely executes a la rue Moll.
11 s'agil plutot d'une erreur du bureau detudes qui n'a pas quantifei la totalit6 de rouverage. Cette
T1052    Travaux caniveaux mue 3275                           14 766000   Avenant pourprendreen compte eeurdecalcul de   erreur n'a ett relevee que pendant 1'execution et uf avenant ete prs pour corniger, etv  s
rEntreprise                                     quantitks, et le montant du contrat de 1'entrepnse.
T1050  Tra.aux Cenre e  na2692980    Chnfr  sas vennCentre de Sante d'Abena. Transfert opere a la demande du Maitre d'Ouvrage avec raccood de
TIOSO    Travaux Centre de sanka drAbena                      26 929802   Chanber tranatiertIsass avenanl                   rIDA (1re banque de sous-projets r6actualisee)
234 228 093  1                                                                                                      _



Audit des op6rations et depenses de l'ATETIP
Quelques observations sur les depenses de Fonctionnement
Ligne       Montant          Nature de la depense                           Raison du rejet                                                      Observation ATETIP
Le but vise a travers les anicles publicitaires est de faire connaitre l ATETIP aux populations afin
de les intbresser a ses acliviles et de mieux les sensibiliser. A ce lilre, ils entrent dans la partie
Participation Communautaire du Cr6dt, exactement comme les depenses des Lignes 1514 et
315          2062 500   Articles publicitaires           Depenses in6ligibles                                   1515 (qui, elles. sont jugkes eligibles). Les T-shirts aux logos AGETIP en particulier sont
conlectionnbs par tous les AGETIP et it est surprenant que ce soit cet audit qui apprenne a la
Banque Mondiale que les depenses correspondantes existent et qu'elles sont inMligibles.
316          1 412 500   Aricles publicitaires           Depenses ineligibles.                                  Voir Observation Ligne 315.
476           100 000   Frais seminaire                  Depenses eligibles, mais dont les pieces lusliicatives sont
insuffisanles.
477  290 .0 asainissemen  Dbpenses eligibles, mais dont les pikces justificatives sont
477           290 000t  Journe assainissement            insuffisantes.
1          560          1 425 000   Articles publicitaires          Depenses ineligibles.                                  Voir Observation Ligne 315.
4>                                                             _      6penses 6ligibles, mais dont les pikes justificatives sont   Campagne de sensibilisabon a la TVT pendant l Euro 96. Le dossier comprent une lettre de
1          575          1 200 000   Espace publicilaire            Dipenses aligibles mais dont les pleces jusfificatives sont   commande, une liste de message a diffuser, la facture n- 034 de la TVT et la copie du cheque
tin msuHsanfes: Facture non trouvee.                   BTCD n- 510337 a l'ordre de la TVT. II semble donc complet.
Que la depense soil remboursee parce qu'elle n a pas de piece justificative se comprend; mais ell
949            64 710   Assurance maladie                Depenses inAligibles . Pea de piece.                   est bien  ligible.
953           420 040   Frais medicaux Mariam            Depenses inAligibles.
989          2 000 000   Travaux de pavoisenent          Depenses ineligibles.
990          2 730 000   Travaux de nettoyage Cite OCAM   Depenses inbligibles.
991            17 500   Rideaux                          Depenses ineligibles.                                 11 sagai de rideaux pour les bureaux de lATETIP. Pourquoi ne sont-is pas eligibles ?
992           118 528   Tirage de plans DAO ouvr. de    Dopenses ineligibfes.
drainage__                          _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _  _
Nivellement de la zone des     Depenses ineligibles; Ce n est pas une charge de IlATETIP
993          6000 000   deguerpis a la demande de la     mais une participation indirerte aux fesfivit6s de la ville
Mairie                         de N'Djamena.
994          3 375 000   Avance au Min'istere de l Education Dbpenses ineligibles: Seulement une demande du
994  335 000  vanceau Minst~rede EduationMinist6re.______________________________________
995         4 608 520   Avance au Ministlre de l'Education Depenses ineligibles; Seulement une demande du
Depenses eligibles, mais dont les pieces justidicatives sont
1 008         2 559 701   Mobilier de bureau             insuffisantes Somme de plusieurs factures. Details des
montants non communiques.
1 016         3 174 600   Etudes                          Depenses inlgibles Nature de la depense ?
1 017         1 750 000   Travaux topographiques          Depenses ineligibtes.



1 018         1 093 660   Essais dtude et de contrie des   Dbpenses in3ligibles; Est-ce du fonctionnement ?
______   ______________ travaux de r6habilitation
1019          1 739 646   Etudes                           Dbpenses inbligibles; Somme de 5 factures
1 020           600 000   Supervision de travaux           Depenses inbligibles;
1 031         2 704 100   Reguiansation Financement 2614-  Depenses bligibles, mais dont les pi6ces justificatives sont
CD                              insuffisantes; Facture non trouv6e.
11 s'agit de rachal A 420 francs suisses (au taux de 1 FS pour 240 F CFA) de 2 manuels de fommation
Dbpenses ineligibles; Aucune piece de cette depense.    pratique pour la construction et rentretien de routes. au B iT en Suisse par le D.r   b dossier content
1 118           100 800   Op6ration non identifi6e                                                                  une facture pro forrisa. un requ, un r6cipisse de paiement etlla copie du ch6que BMBT n' 9575224 A rordre
Cheque au porteur.                                      de Djim-Adoumbaye BATINGAR (D G.)
1 155            81 400   Produits d'entretien             Dbpenses inbligibles.                                    Pourquoi cette dbpense est-elle inbligible ?
Dbpense engagee a l'occasion du
1 172           100 000   deces de la belle-mbre du Chef de  D6penses inbligibles; Pas de piece justificative.
_______   ____ ___________  Etat
Indemnites versees A la         Depenses bligibles, mais dont les pieces justificatives sont
1 173           1N 500   Gendarmerie pour la protection des insuffisantes; Pas de plice justificaUive en dehors d'un
-                                     tocadu DG  eau lieu de  DAF)     etat sus papier A entete de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
1 175           100 000   (Frais de rbparation MPC) Aucun   Dbpenses in6tigibles; Cheque i l'ordre du Ministere du
justificatif de ceote dbpense   Plan et de la Cooperation.
Indemnitls versees a la         Dbpenses bligibles, mais dont les pi6ces justificatives sont
1 176           105 000   Gendarmene pour ia protection des insuhfisantes; Pas de piece justificative en dehors d'un
docaux de ATETIP ee du domicile  etat sus papier A entete de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
Indemnites versees a la         Depenses eligibles, mais dont les pibces justificatives sont
1178            108500   locauxrdeliATETIP et du domicie  insuffisantes; Pas de pice justificative en dehors d'un
cu DG (au lieu de DAF o l    tat sus papier i entAte de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
Indemnites versbes a la         Dbpenses bligibles, mais doni les pibces justificatives sont
1 185           101 500   Gendarmere pour la protection des insuffisantes; Pas de pice justificative en dehors d'un
locaux de l'ATETIP et du domicile  etat sus papier i entAte de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
du DG (as lieu do OAF)           ______________________
IndemnilAs versbes a la         Dbpenses bligibles, mais dont les pibces justificatives sont
1 189           108 500   Gendarmerie pour a protection doe  insuffisantes ; Pas de piece justificative en dehors d'un
locaux do (ATETIP ot du domicile  etat sus papier A entete de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
du DG (as lieu do OAF)                                                                   ____________________________________
Indemniibs versees al a         Depenses eGgibles, mais donl les pibces justificafives sonl
1 194           213 500   Gendarmerie pour la protection des insuffisantes ; Pas de pice justificative en dehors d'un
locaux de lATETIP et du domicile  Atat sus papler i entfite de rATETIP et visiI par le 0G.
idu OG (as lieu do OAF)___________________________________________________________



IndemnitMs vers6es a la       Dopenses bligibles, mais donl les pieces justificatives sont
1 199          102 500   Gendarmerie pour la prolection des insuffisantes * Pas de piice justificative en dehors d'un
locaux de l'ATETIP et du domicile  etat sus papier i entite de l'ATETIP et vise par le DG.
du DG (au lieu de DAF)                                                                                                  _
Indemnit.s vers.es A la       Dpenses 6ligibles, mais dont les pieces justificatives sont
1 201           62 000   Gendarmere pour la protection des insuffisantesp; Pas de pice justificative en dehors d'un
locaux de IATETIP et du domicile  Etat sus papier a entite de l'ATETIP et visil par le DG.
du DG (au lieu de OAF)
1 207            0 000   Contribution aux frais funraires de Dpenses indligibles; Pas de plice justificative.
la belle-mere du Maire        ___________________________________________________________
1 210           45 000   Frais de voyage DT             DApenses eligibles, mais dont les pieces justificatives sont
insuffisantes ;
Dopenses eligibles, mais dont les pieces juslificatives sont
1 216           40 000  indemnitbs d'archivage          insuffisantes; Mals de piece justificative en dehors d'un
etat sus papier A entete de lATETIP et visA par le DG.
1 228           25 000   Don au Lyc6e-Coll6ge SacrA-Coeur DApenses inAligibles; Aucune plice justificative du
1 22825     lors de son 3OAme anniversaire    versement au dossier.
.s           _Contribut. financiere ad coktail
1 236          100 000   organisA par la Ligue de Football du D6penses in6ligibles; Aucun justificatif du versement.
Chad Baguirmi
1 239           50 000   Don a l'Association des Femmes   Depenses in6ligibles; Aucun justiricatif de la depense.
Juistes
1 243           50 000   Don a l'Association des Personnes DNpenses inAtigibles Aucun justificatif du versement.
Handicapees
Sponsoring match Poslel 2000 / AS Depenses in6ligibles; Aucune piece justificative de ce
1 249          100 000        .                         reglement en dehors de la demande de fonds Amanant de
249                   cheminol                      Ia FIderation de Football.                                             .-
Don a l'Association de SolidaritA    Dpenses inAligibles; Aucune piece justificative de ce
1 250          100 000   avec les LApreux (43e JournAe  reglement en dehors de la demande de fonds emanant du
Mondiale des L6preux)         Ministbre de la SantA.
350 f)00   Sponsoring jeux-concours   DNpenses in6ligibles; Aucune piAce justificative en dehors
1 253                    radiophonique de l'arabe littAraire  de la demande de contribution.
1 257          500 000   Sponsorng Renaissance FC        upenses inLigibles; Don verse h Renaissance FC. Aucun
reu justilant du versement
Don Joumre Internationale des    DApenses inAligibles ; Seules pieces au dossier la
1 259           75 000   Personnes Handicap6es          demande de versement et la copie du cheque.
1 268          1i 00 000   Don au comitA Technique de Lulle  Depenses ineUgibles; Aucun justificatif en dehors de la
1268          100 ~   contre le Choltra               demande du Comite.                                 __ _
Contribution aux manifestations    Depenses inAligibles ; Aucun justificatif de cette depense
1 275          500 000   6rAvues pour le centenaire de Fort en dehors du courrier du DG au Pr6sident du Comite
Archambaut / Sarh             d'Organisatlon du Centenalre.



1 305         2 005 000   Repas Nouvel An (1.430.000) et   Depenses dligibles, mais dont les pieces juslificatives sont
fete duRamadan (575.000)       insuffisantes.
Accord exceptionnel de l'Agence
1 485           300 000   pour paricipation aux frais    Depenses ineligibles.
d'accouchement du DAF
1 492           388 225   Ecriture d'ajusiement a fin 1997    Depenses eligibles, mais dont les piees justiticatives sont
1 I492  388 225   Ecriture daiustement ~ fin 1997    insuffisantes; A expliquer et i justifier.
1 502            50 000   Panicipation financidre aux frais de Depenses ineligibles; Aucune piece justificative.
oprnsentation de voeux au MPC 
1 503            50 000   Don  'occasion de la Journe des D6penses ineligibles; Aucune pice justificative.
1-6preux____________________________
1 510            30 000   Achat de 6 pagnes SENAFET      DEpenses ineligibles; Pas de facture justifiant cette
suivant accord du OG           d6pense.
1 514         l 160 000   Agendas, Cartes de voeux et pin's  D6penses eligibles. mais donl les pieces justificatives sont
ATETIP                         insuffisantes; Pas de piece justificative.
l   l 515   4 755 000   Agendas ATETIP  }  penses eligibles, mais dont les pieces justiticatives sont
1 515         4755000             Ainsuffisantes; Pas de pice justificative.
-             51281430
-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25339R
15    °
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any
other informotion shown
on this moap  do  not
imply, an the part of
LThe World Bank Group,
,status of cany territory,
or any endorsement
I  _                             or acceptance of such
CHAD                         L                                                                                           boundaries.
TCHAD
Main Roads                             /
Routes Primaires
Secondary Roads
Routes Secondaires
Rivers                              I
Rivieres
Prefecture Boundaries
Limites des prefectures            1
International Boundaries
Frontieres Internationale
KILMETERS 0    50   100   150  200   250                                              BORKOU  - ENNEDI - TIBESTI
MILES D      50        lo O550
/'                      KANEhM                                                            BILTINE  I'   \Ib ,!                          ls1
NIGER                   <                  M/'
A            @             /_  t ~~~~~~ousso 
10                                                                                                                                                10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ChAMO                             L GO  Mkssaja                                                                   EUBL    SUDAN
/                         \                  G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or r
/ACGHUR2M~~~H  I                                 MO                                        VGoz-Beida 
NIGERIA   N ' '-c   
,   (O Cf  se n~~~~ciseya o/                             4Dern                
(   ~                                                                                                  55b0               ,)   o
^Bou          \          U               CENRALARYCAA
\    i't--'^'~~~-\S(Gor4,/' .         Kyab
_{                              |    /           2                                                 204~~~~~~~
FEbRUARY 1995



