CREDIT NUMBER 2614 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Works and Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           /3    , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2614 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          i                 , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development  Credit   Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "ATETIP" means the Agence Tchadienne d'Execution de
Travaux d'Interet Public, an entity established under the laws of
the Borrower;
(b)   "Beneficiary" means the municipality or public entity
for whose benefit a Sub-Project is to be executed;
(c)   "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d)   "Convention" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ATETIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes the Manuel de ProcAdures, and all other annexes,
schedules and attachments thereto


﻿-2-
(e)   "Implementing Enterprise" means an engineering firm or
other entity to which a contract has been awarded for the execution
of a Sub-Project;
(f)   "Manuel de Proc6dures" means the procedures manual
adopted by ATETIP, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association, which shall specify the procedures governing ATETIP's
operations;
(g)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter agreement, dated January 10, 1994, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Sub-Project" means any of the public works and services
sub-project activities described in Part A of the Project; and
(j)   "Sub-Project Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between ATETIP and an Implementing Enterprise for the execution
of a Sub-Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 2004 and ending December 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall, with ATETIP, carry out Part D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors;
(ii)   shall cause ATETIP to execute the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention;
(iii)   shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable ATETIP to carry out the
Project; and
(iv)   shall refrain from taking or permitting to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such execution and performance by ATETIP.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into a Convention with ATETIP on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include
those terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to cause ATETIP to execute the Project,
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (in addiion to the funds
referred to in Section 6.01(g)(ii) of this Agreement) provide to
ATETIP for the execution of Sub-Projects: (a) at least $250,000
equivalent not later than July 1, 1995; (b) at least $250,000
equivalent not later than July 1, 1996; and (c) at least $250,000
equivalent not later than July 1, 1997.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) complete the study of
the public procurement practices under Part D of the Project not
later than December 31, 1994, (b) within three months following such
completion, submit to the Association for its comments a proposed
action plan setting forth the measures that the Borrower proposes to
improve its public procurement practices, (c) not later than
December 31, 1995, adopt an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, to improve such practices, and (d) not later than
December 31, 1996, fully implement such action plan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall and shall cause ATETIP to
carry out, jointly with the Association, an annual review of the
Project during the second calendar quarter of each year (other than
in calendar year 1996). This review shall cover, inter alia: (i) the
implementation of the Sub-Projects, (ii) ATETIP's management and its
administrative cost structure, (iii) the performance by ATETIP and
the Borrower of their respective obligations under the Convention
(including compliance with procurement procedures), (iv) the com-
pliance of ATETIP with the Manuel de Proc6dures, (v) the performance
by ATETIP and Implementing Enterprises of their respective obliga-
tions under Sub-Project Agreements, (vi) implementation by ATETIP of
the training programs under Part B of the Project, (vii) means to
enhance the environmental impact of Sub-Projects, and (viii) other
matters specified by the Association relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause ATETIP to carry out,
jointly with the Association, during the second calendar quarter of
1996, a detailed mid-term review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project, including a review of (i) the items listed under
paragraph (a) of this Section, and (ii) Sub-Project labor ratios,
wages, cost overruns, completion delays and unit prices.


﻿-7-
(c)   During the first quarter of each year, the Borrower
shall, and shall cause ATETIP to, furnish to the Association, for
its review and comments, reports, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project.
For purposes of the mid-term review described in paragraph (b)
above, the Borrower shall cause ATETIP to commission a study of the
items listed under subparagraph (ii) of such paragraph (b).
(d)   Following each such review, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause ATETIP to, promptly and diligently implement any
corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Assciciation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ATETIP to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
ATETIP (including all operations under Part D of the Project).
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ATETIP to:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and the
records and accounts for the Special Account for
each fiscal quarter and each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after
the end of each such quarter (other than the
fourth) and of each such year: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such
quarter and year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial
statements  and   the  audit   thereof  as   the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause ATETIP to:
(i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at    least  one year after    the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as   to  whether  the   statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)    as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall


﻿-9-
make it improbable that ATETIP or the Borrower will be able to
perform its obligations under the Convention;
(b)    ATETIP' s Statuts or r6glements int6rieurs or the Manuel
de Procedures shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived without the prior consent of the Association;
(c)    the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ATETIP, or for the suspension of its operations;
(d)    the Borrower or ATETIP shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Convention; and
(e)   the Convention shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the Project or the performance by ATETIP or the Borrower
of its obligations under the Convention.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Convention, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association, has been duly signed by the Borrower and ATETIP;
(b)   ATETIP's Statuts and r4glements int6rieurs and the
Manuel de Proc6dures are in form and substance acceptable to the
Association;


﻿- 10 -
(c)   ATETIP has adopted a program of Sub-Projects to be
financed under the Credit, acceptable to the Association,
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000 equivalent;
(d)   ATETIP has submitted to the Association (i) action plans
for the execution of the training programs under Parts B.1 and B.2
of the Project, and (ii) an action plan to increase community
participation under Part B.3 of the Project;
(e)   ATETIP  has  (i) established   an  accounting  system
acceptable to the Association, and (ii) employed an independent
auditor for a period of at least four years, with qualifications and
experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association;
(f)   ATETIP has employed a technical director and a financial
director, with qualifications and experience and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association;
(g)   (i) ATETIP has adopted a program of Sub-projects,
acceptable to the Association and in addition to those proposed
under paragraph (c) of this Section, representing an aggregate
estimated cost of $250,000 equivalent to be financed by the Borrower
(as described in paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement); and
(ii) the Borrower has deposited into ATETIP's account at least
$250,000 equivalent to finance the execution of such Sub-Projects;
and
(h)   ATETIP has submitted to the Association a roster with at
least 10 local contractors and consultants eligible for Sub-Project
execution under the Manuel de Procedures.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Convention has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and ATETIP, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and ATETIP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Cooperation of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Ccnditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:               Telex:
MINPLAN                   5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/               ale- J "   6o-
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Public Works              7,790,000      100%
(2)   Consultants' Ser-         2,630,000      100%
vices and Training
for Parts B and C
of the Project
(3)   Consultants' Ser-           480,000      100%
vices for Part D
of the Project
(4)   Equipment and               300,000      100%
Vehicles for
ATETIP
(5)   Operating Costs             720,000      100%
of ATETIP
(6)   Refunding of                150,000      Amount due
Project                                  pursuant to
Preparation                              Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                  of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                 330,000
TOTAL                     12,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs
of ATETIP" means any administrative costs of ATETIP, including costs


﻿- 14 -
for office supplies, rent for office space, and salaries of ATETIP
staff and consultants.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for works not exceeding $250,000
equivalent, and for goods and services not exceeding $20,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to finance a program of
municipal and governmental works in the area of infrastructure
upgrading and rehabilitation .and demonstrate the feasibility of
labor-intensive public works projects; (b) to improve the delivery
of public services: (c) to promote the participation of local
private contractors and consulting firms in the execution of public
works projects, and to improve their skills; (d) to increase
employment in urban areas using the private sector; (e) to
strengthen the institutional capacity of ATETIP; and (f) to improve
public sector procurement practices.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Public Works and Services Program
1.    Execution of public works sub-projects, to be carried out
under labor-intensive schemes by local contractors, including the
construction and repair of urban infrastructure and public
facilities.
2.    Execution of public services sub-projects, to be carried out
under labor-intensive schemes by local private firms, including
waste collection and disposal.
Part B:     Strengthening Managerial Capacity and Community
Participation
1.    Development and   implementation  of  training programs to
increase the technical and managerial capacity of small- and medium-
scale contracting firms and consulting firms carrying out Sub-
Projects, inter alia through the implementation of:
(a)   a business administration and financial management
training program for entrepreneurs;
(b)   a work organization training program primarily designed
for foremen; and


﻿- 16 -
(c)   technical   training   courses   to   improve  worker
productivity.
2.    Development and implementation of a training program to
strengthen the capacity of Beneficiaries and engineering firms to
prepare feasibility studies and technical project proposals for Sub-
Projects.
3.    Development and implementation of a program to increase
community participation in urban infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation.
Part C:     Institutional Development of ATETIP
Development and implementation by ATETIP of a program to
monitor and evaluate its operations and the activities it manages,
including quarterly financial and management audits of such
operations and activities, and an assessment of the environmental
impact of Sub-Projects.
Part D:     Public Sector Procurement
Strengthening the Borrower's public sector procurement
practices through, inter alia, preparation of a study to analyze and
streamline procurement procedures and practices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price  contracts, the invitation    to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally-recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Goods procured under this Part A shall be exempted from pre-
shipment price inspection by a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $340,000 or less per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $420,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract (i) for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, and (ii) for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $170,000 or more or for which there are
less than five bidders, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be


﻿- 19 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the
Project, and to assist ATETIP in carrying out Parts A, B and C of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause ATETIP to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall cause ATETIP to employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed to by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall cause ATETIP to use other standard forms agreed with
the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than:
(a) $30,000 equivalent each, in the case of firms, and (b) $10,000
equivalent each, in the case of individuals. However, this exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to single source selection of firms
or individuals, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising
the contract value to: (a) $30,000 equivalent each, in the case of
firms, and (b) $10,000 equivalent each, in the case of individuals.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall 7,ave requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 22 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, pror4ptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions Referred to in Section 3.01(b) of
this Agreement Regarding the Convention
The Convention shall be for a term of six years and shall
include the following:
1.    Provisions for the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on
a non-reimbursable basis to ATETIP for purposes of financing
expenditures incurred in carrying out the Sub-Projects, including
ATETIP's equipment and operating costs.
2.    The obligation of ATETIP to: (a) take all measures necessary
to ensure that the Project is carried oiut with due diligence and
efficiency   and  in   accordance  with   appropriate   financial,
administrative, technical and engineering practices, and with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors, (b) comply with the
recordkeeping, auditing and reporting requirements set forth in
Article 4 of the Development Credit Agreement, (c) maintain the
accounting system established in accordance with Section 6.01(e) of
the Development Credit Agreement, with such changes thereto as may
be agreed to by the Association, and (d) employ and maintain an
independent auditor with qualifications and experience and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
3.    The obligation of ATETIP to conduct its operations in a cost-
effective manner, and to review periodically with the Borrower and
the Association its administrative cost structure.
4.    The obligation of ATETIP to carry out its activities in
accordance with the Manuel de Proc6dures, which shall specify the
obligations of ATETIP relating, inter alia, to:.the execution of the
Project, the selection of Sub-Projects, procurement, and the
submission of evidence required to withdraw the proceeds of the
Credit and replenishing the Special Account. These obligations shall
include the requirement that ATETIP submit to the Association for
its approval a description of each Sub-Project for which it intends
to obtain financing from the Credit, including a description of the
activities to be financed, and a listing of the cost elements.
5.    (a)   The obligation of ATETIP to keep the positions of
general director, technical director, and financial director
staffed, at all times, with persons having experience, qualifica-


﻿- 24 -
tions and terms of reference acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The obligation of ATETIP to update at least every six
months its roster of contractors and consultants eligible under the
Manuel de Procedures.
6.    The obligation of ATETIP to promptly inform the Borrower and
the Association of any condition which interferes, or threatens to
interfere, with (a) the progress of the Project or any Sub-Project,
(b) the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, (c) the
performance by ATETIP of its obligations under the Convention, or
(d) the performance by ATETIP or any Implementing Enterprises of
their respective obligations under any Sub-Project Agreement.
7.    The obligation of ATETIP to provide to the Association and the
Borrower: (a) by the thirtieth day following the end of each fiscal
quarter, a report of its activities during such fiscal quarter, in
such scope and detail as the Borrower and the Association shall
reasonably request, and (b) not later than three months after the
Closing Date, a report complying with the requirements of the
completion report required under Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions.
8.    Attachea  rteto as an annex, a sample Sub-Project Agreement.
9.    Attached   - eto as an annex, a sample of the agreement to be
entered into between ATETIP and Beneficiaries regarding Sub-Project
execution.
10.   (a)   The obligation of ATETIP to fully execute, not later
than June 30, 1995, the program of Sub-Projects to be financed from
the Credit agreed upon with the Association in accordance with
Section 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement (with such
changes thereto as may be agreed to by the Association).
(b)   The  obligation  of ATETIP: (i) to     submit to   the
Association for its approval, not later than April 30, 1995, a
program of proposed Sub-Projects to be financed from the Credit
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, (ii) to
adopt, not later than August 31, 1995, a program of Sub-Projects, to
be financed from the Credit and acceptable to the Association,
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, and (iii) to
fully execute, not later than June 30, 1996, such program of


﻿- 25 -
Sub-Projects (with such changes thereto as may be agreed to by the
Association).
(c)   The obligation   of ATETIP: (i) to submit to the
Association for its approval, not later than April 30, 1996, a
program of proposed Sub-Projects to be financed from the Credit
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, (ii) to
adopt, not later than August 31, 1996, a program of Sub-Projects to
be financed from the Credit and acceptable to the Association,
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, and (iii) to
fully execute, not later than June 30, 1997, such program of Sub-
Projects (with such changes thereto as may be agreed to by the
Association).
(d)   The obligation   of ATETIP: (i) to submit to the
Association for its approval, not later than April 30, 1997, a
program of proposed Sub-Projects to be financed from the Credit
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, (ii) to
adopt, not later than August 31, 1997, a program of Sub-Projects to
be financed from the Credit and acceptable to the Association,
representing an aggregate estimated cost of $2,750,000, and (iii) to
fully execute, not later than June 30, 1998, such program of Sub-
Projects (with such changes thereto as may be agreed to by the
Association).
11.   (a)   The obligation of ATETIP to execute, before June 30,
1998, a program of Sub-Projects (in addition to those financed under
the Credit) representing an aggregate cost of $1,000,000 equivalent,
out of which: (i) Sub-Projects representing an aggregate cost of at
least $250,000 equivalent shall be completed not later than June 30,
1995; (ii) additional Sub-Projects representing an aggregate cost of
at least $250,000 equivalent shall be completed not later than June
30, 1996; (iii) further additional Sub-Projects representing an
aggregate cost of at least $250,000 equivalent shall be completed
not later than June 30, 1997; and (iv) further additional Sub-
Projects representing an aggregate cost of at least $250,000
equivalent shall be completed not later than June 30, 1998.
(b) The obligation of the Borrower (i) to make available to
ATETIP 100% of the resources needed for the execution of the Sub-
Projects referred to in sub-paragraph 11(a) above (without recourse
to any financing provided by the Association under any credit for an
investment project), and (ii) to deposit with ATETIP $1,000,000
equivalent in funds in accordance with the requirements of Sections
3.03 and 6.01(g)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 26 -
12.   The obligation of ATETIP to adopt, not later than June 30 of
each year, an annual training program for the succeeding twelve-
month period to carry out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, which
program shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall take into
account the needs identified during implementation of the training
program the previous year.
13.   The obligation of ATETIP to update not later than June 30 of
each year, in a manner acceptable to the Association, its action
program for increasing community participation under Part B.3 of the
Project, which update shall take into account the needs identified
during implementation of such Part during the previous year.
14.   The obligation of ATETIP to implement Parts B and C of the
Project in accordance with an operational plan acceptable to the
Association and the Borrower.
15.   The obligation of ATETIP to serve as procurement agent for the
Borrower to procure all goods and services required for the
implementation of Part D of the Project.
16.   The obligation of ATETIP:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound financial, administrative, technical and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial
practices.
17.   The obligation of ATETIP to comply with the requirements of
Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement regarding the
review of Project implementation and related actions.


﻿- 27 -
18.   The obligation of ATETIP to refund to the Borrower any
proceeds from the Credit not used for purposes of carrying out the
Project, unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


