Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 9344-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR20.6 MILLION (US$ 28.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A GEF CGRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.7 MILLION (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FORA,
FOURTH FISHERIES PROJECT
June 14, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 28, 1999)
Currency Unit = Taka (Tk)
US$1.00 = Tk48.65
FISCAL YEAR: July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank                   GEF              Global Environmental Facility
ARDMCS           Aquatic Resources Development,           GOB              Government of Bangladesh
Management, and Conservation Studies    ha             Hectares
BAO              Budget and Accounts Officer              ICLARM           International Centre for Living Aquatic Resources
BFRI             Bangladesh Fisheries Research Institute                     Management
BKSB             Boronal-Kola-Salimpur-Bashukhali         ICR              Implementation Completion Report
BMC              Beel Management Committee                IDA              International Development Association
BWDB             Bangladesh Water Development Board       IRR              Intemal Rate of Return
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy              kg               Kilogram
CBFMP            Community Based Floodplain Management  LGED               Local Government Engineering Department
Project                               M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
C&AG             Comptroller and Auditor General          MOFL             Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
CNRS             Centre for Natural Resources Studies     MOL              Ministry of Land
CPP              Compartmentalization Pilot Project       MLGRD            Ministry of Local Govemment and Rural
DANIDA.          Danish International Development                            Development
Agency                                 MOWR             Ministry of Water Resources
DFID (UK)        Department for International Development   NGO            Non-governmental Organization
DFOs             District Fisheries Offices               NPV              Net Present Value
DOF              Department of Fisheries                  NWFEP            Northwest Fisheries Extension Project
EGIS             Environment and Geographic Information    O&M             Operation and Maintenance
System                                 OED              Operations and Evaluation Department
ERR              Economic Rate of Retum                   PCD              Project Coordinating Director
EU               European Union                           PIP              Project Implementation Plan
EUS              Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome            PMU              Project Management Unit
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization        PMRs             Project Management Reports
FAP              Flood Action Plan                        SA               Special Account
FCDI             Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation   SMC              Sanctuary Management Committee
FME              Financial Management Expert              SWMC             Surface Water Modeling Centre
FRR              Financial Rate of Return                 TFP              Third Fisheries Project
FSMF             Fish Seed Multiplication Farms           TFO              Thana Fisheries Officer
FTC              Fisheries Training Centres               UNDP             United Nations Development Program
FTEP             Fisheries Training and Extension Project
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager: Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Leader: Robert Epworth/Benson Ateng and Imtiazuddin Ahmad



Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .......................... . . .................  2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators.           2
B. Strategic Context ...............          ...................              2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project.                       2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy.                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      5
C. Project Description Summary.                                                8
1. Project components.                                                     8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.          9
3. Benefits and target population .10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .11
D. Project Rationale .14
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection .14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  17
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design .18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .19
E. Summary Project Analysis .19
1. Economic .19
2. Financial .20
3. Technical .22
4. Institutional .22
5. Social .24
6. Environmental assessment .26
7. Participatory approach .27
F. Sustainability and Risks .28
1. Sustainability .28
2. Critical risks .29
3. Possible controversial aspects .30
G. Main Loan Conditions .30
1. Effectiveness conditions .30
2. Other .30



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................                                            33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................................................                                           33
Annexes
Annex  1.    Project Design  Summary .......................................................                                       34
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description ...................................................                                       38
Annex 3.    Estimated Project Costs ........................................................                                       51
Annex 3A  Estimated Project Costs by Component and Financing Plan ..............                                                   52
Annex 3B  Incremental Cost Analysis for GEF Funding ................................                                               53
Annex 4.    Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ..............................................                                           55
Annex 4A    Financial and Economic Analysis .............................................                                          59
Table  1.  Results of Financial Analysis ..................................................                                    61
Table 2.  Financial Net Cash Flows (Nominal) .............                                ...........................          62
Table 3.  Financial Net Cash Flows (Real) ..................                             ............................          63
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to a Reduction in Production
Factor (Yield) and Investment Cost Overruns .............................                                    64
Talble 5. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to Fishing Costs and Price of Fish    65
Talble 6. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to Production Factor (Yield) and
Investment Cost Overruns ....................................................                                65
Table 7.  Results of Economic Analysis ...................................................                                     67
Table 8.  Net Economic Benefit Flow  Statement .........................................                                       68
Table 9. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic NPV to a Reduction in Production
Factor (Yield) and Cost Overruns ............................................                                69
Table 10. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic NPV to Production Factor (Yield)
And Investment Cost Overruns ..............................................                                  70
Table 11.  Project Impact on Fishermen ....................................................                                      70
Table  12.  Value of Extemalities Generated by the Project ..............................                                        71
Table  13.  Budgetary  Impact on the Govemment ..........................................                                        72
Table  14.  Budgetary  Impact on the Government ..........................................                                       73
Table 15. Risk Variables and their Impact and Risk Significance ......................    74
Table  16.  Distributions and Parameters for Risk Variables ..............................                                       75
Table  17.  Results of Risk Analysis for Entire Project ....................................                                     75
Table 18. Results of Risk Analysis for Each Component ................................    76
Figure  1.  Factors that Cause Volatility in NPV ...........................................                                     76
Figure 2. Risk Analysis Impact on the Externality to Govemment .....................   77
Annex 5.    Financial Summary  ...............................................................                                     78
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................    79
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...............................    87
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ..................    88
Table C.         Allocation  of Credit Proceeds ................................................                               89
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................                                         90
Annex  8.    Documents in Project File ........................................................                                    91
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .92
Annex  10.  Country at a Glance ...............................................................                                    94
Annex  11.  Environmental Impact Assessment ..............................................                                         96
Annex  12.  Social Assessment ..............................................................                                      102
Map    IBRD 30035



1
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Bangladesh Country Unit
Date: 06/14/99                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: J. Weijenberg and
R. Epworth/ B. Ateng and I. Ahmad
Country Director: Frederick T. Temple           Sector Manager: R. Ali
Project ID: BD-PE- 9468     Sector: Rural       Program Objective Category: EN
Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [x] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data            [  Loan       [x] Credit       [  Guarantee       [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 28.0m/20.6m
Proposed terms:                          []  Multicarrency         [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         [   Standard Variable     []  Fixed      [] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Not exceeding
0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                  Local                Foreign               Total
Government                                      9.3                                       9.3
Beneficiaries                                   3.0                    -                  3.0
IDA                                            24.6                    3.4               28.0
GEF                                             3.0                    2.0                5.0
DFID                                            7.7                    7.8               15.5
Total           47.6                   13.2               60.8
Borrower: Government of Bangladesh
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):     2000      2001       2002      2003      2004
Annual       7.9        8.4       7.5       2.8        1.4
Cumulative       7.9      16.3      23.8       26.6      28.0
Project implementation period: 5 yrs Expected effectiveness date: Aug. 2, 1999 Expected closing date: Dec 31, 2004



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project would be to support sustainable growth in and equitable distribution of the
benefits generated from increased fish and shrimp production for domestic consumption and exports.
The project would contribute to poverty alleviation in Bangladesh by improving the livelihoods of poor
people dependent on fisheries resources. In addition, while not directly monitored under the project, the
increased production would have important nutritional and health benefits, particularly for the poor since
fish contributes about 60% of animal protein in their diet.
The objective would be achieved through the following interventions: (i) improvement of inland open-
water fisheries management through the development of sustainable, community-based institutions and
supporting them in undertaking a program of adaptive management of their fisheries resources using
technical measures such as stock enhancement of floodplain fisheries, restoration of fisheries habitats,
establishment of fish sanctuaries, and construction of fish passes; (ii) establishment of sustainable and
equitable institutional arrangements for managing shrimp polders and works (including improvements in
salt-water inlets, flushing structures and channels) to facilitate the development of environmentally
friendly smallholder shrimp production; (iii) improvement of sustainability of shrimp fry collection
through the development and extension of less destructive methods and by helping poor shrimp fry
collectors gain access to services and support; (iv) development and application of an appropriate
extension strategy for freshwater aquaculture and establishment of an institutional network including the
Department of Fisheries (DOF) and other organizations to apply and improve that strategy; (v) studies of
key issues in aquatic resource development and management in Bangladesh and development of a
socially feasible and ecologically sound management plan for the conservation of hilsa fisheries; and
(vi) strengthening the capacity of DOF to manage and support the fisheries sector, plan for its
development and long-term sustainability and implement national fisheries policy.
Progress toward the objectives would be measured and monitored based on (i) increase in fish and shrimp
production; (ii) increase in the incomes of fisher-families; (iii) increase in employment opportunities;
(iv) increase in number of smallholder shrimp farmers; and (v) preservation of aquatic habitats and
biodiversity.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
C'AS document number: 17453-BD   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 6, 1998 (the CAS update
is scheduled to be discussed in July 1999)
The Bank's overarching mission is to help Bangladesh reduce poverty by promoting rapid,
employment-creating economic growth and interventions that directly assist the poor. At the rural sector
level, this goal is to be achieved through faster rural and agricultural development -- shared economic
growth, increased food security, and improved natural resources management. The goal is clearly
articulated in Bangladesh Rural Development Strategy that provides the framework for the Bank's
country assistance strategy (CAS) with respect to rural development. The CAS update aims at
accelerating agricultural growth and rural development and strengthening linkages between agriculture
and non-agricultural development to address the needs of the poor. It also gives special attention to
gender issues and aims at expanding partnerships with NGOs and donors. The proposed project would
support faster rural and agricultural development by increasing fish and shrimp production for domestic
consumption and export with special emphasis on sustainable resource management principles, rural
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and conservation of aquatic biodiversity. The total
production of the country is about 1.3 million metric tons out of which inland fisheries contribute almost



3
80%. A large and rapidly increasing number of very poor people depends on fishing for nutrition and
income. The sector accounts for about 10% of agricultural GDP, 3% of total GDP, 8% of total export
earnings, 60% of animal protein intake, and 7% of total protein intake in the country. It employs almost 2
million and 12 million full-time and part-time fishermen, respectively. The project would have a
potential for wide-ranging involvement of women and women groups in fisheries development.
The project would also contribute to CAS's goal of expanding partnerships with donors and NGOs. The
project would provide a vehicle for interacting more effectively with donors that are active in the fisheries
sector. DFID, one of the main donors involved in the sector and for whom elimination of global poverty
is an overarching objective, would be the main partner providing parallel financing to this project. The
Project is fully consistent with DFID's Country Strategy and would make a significant contribution to its
fisheries and aquatic resources sector strategy for Bangladesh.
NGOs are expected to play a significant role in the implementation of inland open-water fisheries
management and coastal shrimp aquaculture components of the project. The proposed project would,
therefore, contribute significantly to achieving CAS goals. It would also support Bangladesh's national
objectives outlined in the Fifth Five Year Plan of 1997 and the goals of the National Fisheries Policy of
1998.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.]
There are conflicting demands on the fisheries sector in Bangladesh. The contribution of the sector to
national food supply and GDP (including vital export earnings) needs to be optimized in order to support
economic growth and employment. To ensure the sustainability of that contribution, fisheries need to be
managed effectively and the aquatic environment conserved and protected. As fisheries provides a vital
source of food for a large proportion of poor rural households, access to the benefits of fisheries for as
broad a segment of the population as possible is also a critical concern. Where these conflicting demands
are not effectively resolved, it is generally the poor who lose out. Their access to fish for food and
income is progressively eroded by a combination of habitat degradation, appropriation of access rights by
the more powerful segments of society and unmanaged and indiscriminate resource use. The multiplicity
of agencies involved in the control and management of fisheries, institutional weaknesses such, poor co-
ordination among relevant agencies, non-enforcement of fisheries laws and regulations due to lack of
human, physical and financial resources, and limited access to credit further complicate sectoral
problems.
The fisheries sector in Bangladesh is made up of four distinct sub-sectors: open-water fisheries, closed
water aquaculture, coastal aquaculture, and marine fisheries. The current project is focussed on the first
three of these sub-sectors. The problems facing each of these sub-sectors, the sub-sectors' potential and
strategies for realizing that potential are described below.
I  The assessments below are based on economic and sector work of the Bank and other development agencies.
These include findings of the Bank's ESW -- Fisheries Sector Review, Report No. 8830-BD, March 20, 1991; a
series of reports prepared by consultants and NGOs betweer, 1991 and 1996 in the context of the Third Fisheries
Project; Flood Action Plan (FAP) 17; Draft Sector Strategy Paper prepared by ODA-funded consultant in 1996;
Papers presented at a 1995 Fisheries Workshop organized jointly by the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
(MOFL), UNDP, and ODA; IDA's Sector Strategy Note, September 30, 1996; Recommendations of a Fisheries
Workshop organized jointly by MOFL, IDA and ODA, August 25, 1996; A 1988 Coastal Environmental
Management Plan for Bangladesh prepared by ESCAP; Background papers prepared by consultants assisting the
Government in preparing the proposed project.)



4
Open-water fisheries. Bangladesh has vast inland open-water fisheries resources. The total area of
inurndable floodplain is 5.48 million ha. About 50% of total fish production in Bangladesh comes from
inland open water fisheries. However, changes in patterns of land use and the widespread development
of flood-control schemes nation-wide have had an important impact on the extent of natural floodplain
available for fish feeding and reproduction. Fishing pressure from a growing population has increased
dramatically and has seriously affected the abundance of some species (particularly valuable migratory
carps) and may even be putting the availability of more resilient floodplain fish at risk. Siltation, often a
result of up-stream changes in catchments, has reduced water flows and cut off vital access routes for fish
from one habitat to another. Because of these issues, potential yields are not being achieved. Current
yields of 130kg/ha could be doubled. Increased use of pesticides and fertilizers in agriculture and
growing industrial pollution are also contributing to the deterioration of the environment for fish.
Increasing fishing pressure has translated into greater competition for access to fisheries resources. The
value of formal access arrangements to these resources, such as leasing, has increased rapidly, providing
important revenue for the government but encouraging more complete depletion of the resource by
leaseholders. Access to fisheries resources is frequently marked by confrontation and violence,
illustrating both the importance of the resource and the pressure to which it is subjected. Declining
availability of fish to subsistence part-time fishermen traditionally using floodplain fisheries to provide
protein to their families is another issue facing the sector.
The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is addressing these issues through a strategy which includes:
(i) conserving aquatic resources; (ii) shifting priorities in management from revenue-generation to
biological conservation and sustainability; (iii) increasing production by involving beneficiaries in
management and stock enhancement; and (iv) rehabilitation of degraded habitats. The negative impact of
flood control and road infrastructure on floodplain fisheries are being mitigated through a program of
floodplain stocking and fish pass construction. The introduction of gear-based licensing schemes for
selected fisheries has also been experimented with some success and has been seen to contribute to a
more equitable and sustained distribution of fisheries benefits among resource-users.
Coastal aquaculture. Rapid development of shrimp farming in the extensive coastal and brackishwater
areas of Bangladesh has made a very significant contribution to the growth of national export earnings
and shrimp farming is now an important element in both the local and national economies. Area under
shrirnp increased from 64,000 ha in 1984/85 to 140,000 ha in 1996/97 and annual production increased
fromr about 7,500 tons to 34,000 tons over the same period. Growth in quantity and value of shrimp
exports has been impressive, averaging 15% per annum over the last 10 years. However, the expansion
of shrimp farming has raised important issues regarding land and water use in coastal areas. The
contrasting demands of rice farrners and those involved in shrimp farming have generated frequent
conflicts in which poorer social groups in shrimp farming areas have often been the losers.
Unp]Lanned shrimp farming development has led to degradation of agricultural land and negatively
affected the livelihoods of local people. GOB with assistance from the European Union (EU) are
undertaking a number of regional visits to assist with the development of a policy paper on integrated
coastal zone management which incorporates vital interests prevailing in coastal areas. Resolution of
conflicts is of key importance if the industry is to grow sustainably.
A recent ban on shrimp exports to EU due to health reasons disrupted exports from Bangladesh and other
regional exporters. The ban has since been lifted and the EU and FAO are providing assistance in
improving overall hygiene and quality standards.
Yields are low; currently about 340 kg/ha. It is envisaged that this can be increased to around 500 kg/ha.
Outbreak of diseases, particularly "White Spot" may continue to threaten the shrimp culture.



5
The sustainability of shrimp farming is also threatened by its reliance on the collection of wild shrimp fry.
This activity now sustains a large number of households using cheap methods that supply key seed inputs
to shrimp farmers but may, in the process, be gravely damaging wild stocks of both shrimp and other
aquatic species. The development of brackish water shrimp hatcheries could supplement the supply of
seed as is practiced in many countries. However, hatchery operation in Bangladesh has not been
demonstrated to be competitive due to low salinity that prevails through much of the year and low
temperatures from November to February. In the absence of adequate hatchery development to supply
the sub-sector, the long-term sustainability of shrimp production and shrimp farming development is in
jeopardy. Shrimp fry collection involves many poor and vulnerable people, including women and
children, and the needs of these groups also have to be considered in the search for appropriate solutions
to the problem.
GOB's strategy concerning shrimp farming includes promotion of improved traditional rather than
intensive shrimp farming; group formation; extension services on how to deal with shrimp disease
outbreaks; conservation of wild seed and larvae; promotion of hatcheries for fry production, extension of
technical skills to shrimp farmers and the creation of infrastructure facilities for the private sector.
Aquaculture Extension and Training. Aquaculture offers significant potential for increasing the fish
supply in Bangladesh. It is currently estimated that there are about 147,000 hectares of ponds in the
country, out of which only 60% are cultured and 40% are under-utilized. Considerable potential exists to
increase production through better utilization and management of these resources. But the sub-sector still
faces problems. Many people, particularly the poor, do not have access to appropriate technology or
skills, because of weak extension.
Key elements in the government's strategy for the sub- sector are increasing the scale and scope of
training for farmers to increase technical knowledge and skills, the provision of loans, the encouraging
group utilization of ponds and rehabilitating publicly-owned derelict ponds.
Institutional strategies. GOB recognizes institutional bottlenecks and the public sector's over-
involvement in fisheries activities and has expressed its intention to reorganize and restructure fisheries
institutions, encouraging the private sector and NGOs to play a greater role. It also recognizes the need
for greater co-ordination within and among government agencies concerned with fisheries development
and management to reduce duplication and overcome hurdles posed by multi-tier jurisdiction situations.
A comprehensive National Fisheries Policy Paper has recently been approved which provides a
framework for addressing these issues but implementing this policy will require institutional changes.
This project will support change and assist with translating the policy into an appropriate strategy for
implementation. The capacity of both government agencies and NGOs to deal with the sector, in terms of
skills, resources and coordination between institutions, has to be improved. The importance of involving
resource-users themselves in management has also been emphasized and forms the principle focus of the
project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address several critical issues in the fisheries sector. Interventions to address the
threats to the sustainability of inland open-water fisheries would include floodplain fisheries stock
enhancement; aquatic habitat restoration, (re-excavation of canals and beel); construction of fish
passes/fish-friendly regulators; and establishment of aquatic sanctuaries in a variety of ecosystems.
Improved fisheries management and fish sanctuaries would also arrest the degradation of the environment
and the decline in aquatic biodiversity. The unifying feature of these interventions is the central role of
beneficiary communities in determining the appropriateness of different management measures and the



6
subsequent assumption of responsibility for their management and, eventually, their costs. Community-
based management of the fisheries resources, coupled with long-term leases of water bodies, would
secure long-term access to aquatic resources by resource-users, making better management a viable
proposition for them and leading to a more sustainable exploitation of those resources. The promotion of
gear-based management systems together with measures to enhance and conserve fisheries resources
would ensure equitable distribution of benefits among different resource-user groups and ensure that
poorer users are not denied access. NGOs would be involved in each of these activities well in advance
of on-the-ground investments and throughout the implementation period.
The project would address some of the environmental and social issues facing the shrimp sub-sector by
investigating mechanisms for achieving local consensus over shrimp development and assisting in
designing and demonstrating environmentally-friendly and sustainable shrimp production and supporting
the creation of appropriate infrastructure. This would target smallholder farmers inside shrimp polders.
More sustainable methods of collecting shrimp fry would also be encouraged by providing training in
improved methods and other support to poor people, particularly women, involved in shrimp fry
collection.
The project would address the issues of under-utilization of pond resources and poor access to
appropriate technology and skills by developing an appropriate extension strategy for aquaculture, based
on the considerable experience of other projects to date An experiential leaming approach to extension
would be adopted under the project to encourage improved aquaculture development among small-scale
farmers. Access to capital would be facilitated by creating linkages to existing credit in both the formal
and NGO sectors.
Problems of degradation of the aquatic environment and biodiversity loss would be addressed by
mainstreaming aquatic biodiversity conservation into the fisheries sector. Comprehensive studies would
be undertaken on ecological issues of national and global significance, and policy recommendations
would be developed. Particular attention would be given to developing a socially and ecologically viable
management plan for hilsa fisheries. Other studies would include assessments of baseline conditions and
data on aquatic biological and genetic diversity of selected inland and coastal ecosystems. They would be
designed to generate vital information and data which would be used for developing and formulating
future fisheries projects, ecosystem protection and conservation programs, and policy recommendations
and ifor mainstreaming aquatic conservation into the fisheries sector. Biodiversity conservation would
also be addressed through the training of and support to shrimp fry collectors. Weak fisheries institutions
would be strengthened through supporting activities directly necessary for project implementation and
those intended for the long-term institutional strengthening of DOF.
A number of key strategic choices were made in the process of designing the project. Emphasis has been
given in all components to the issue of sustainability after the credit and grants close. To achieve this, key
stakeholders have provided guidance at all stages in project preparation to ensure full ownership by them
of all the measures and institutions developed under the project. At the site level, beneficiaries would play
a leading role in deciding on appropriate measures, implementing and managing them, and, progressively
assuming responsibility for total operational costs. The role of both the project and the donors would be
to provide services, advice, and support to activities led by the community. To create the required
flexibility within the project to accommodate this community-level planning, a participatory process
approach was adopted to project planning. The Project Document and Project Implementation Plan need
to be regarded as framework documents that outline activities and inputs but need to be constantly
adjusted to account for developments in the field. A constant process of reflection on experience and
incorporation of learning into the project would be required.



7
Up-front cost sharing of investments would replace the failed cost recovery strategy attempted under the
Third Fisheries Project. For example, the proposed credit would finance up to 90% of the stocking costs
in the first year of the operation of a specific floodplain, 60% the second year, and 30% the third year,
with the balance financed by the communities. Communities would finance 100% of the stocking costs
from the fourth year of operation onwards. In the case of habitat restoration, the beneficiaries would need
to agree to take responsibility through community management of the 0 & M of the habitats restored,
including payment of the 0 & M costs via inclusion in the fishing license fees. Some adjustments may
need to be made, on a case-by-case basis, in cases where beneficiaries are dispersed or difficult to
identify. Beneficiaries would be expected to pay any O&M costs involved in fish passes and water
regulators such as for operation, removing weeds from the channels and restoring fish habitats in
channels. This could be done through licensing arrangements for fisheries or other appropriate
mechanisms identified in conjunction with resource-users and other stakeholders. BWDB Guidelines for
Peoples' Participation would be followed in setting up these water management mechanisms but some
adjustments may need to be made, on a case-by-case basis. Beneficiaries would also be responsible for
routine O&M of shrimp infrastructure
While credit is a constraint to fisheries development, it is not seen as a binding constraint to the success
of the project. DFID will provide limited credit support, through NGO sub-contracts to the inland open-
water fisheries and coastal aquaculture components. This will be used to support alternative income
earning opportunities for poor people deprived of income streams from fisheries exploitation during
periods of restricted access. NGOs would provide credit to landless fisher families, who would be the
target for the inland open-water fisheries component, and the small-holders who would be the target of
the shrimp component. Lack of credit is not considered to be a significant constraint to aquaculture
development within the project which will promote low external input, low intensity and low risk
production strategies. Evidence from projects around Bangladesh suggest that sustainable and significant
increases in fisheries production are attainable without direct provision of credit. In Northwest, a DFID
financed project, has increased average pond production from 1,250kg/ha to over 2,000kg/ha, an increase
of over 65% without directly providing credit to producers.
Other strategic choices made included: (i) working through NGOs to establish appropriate community-
level management and decision-making mechanisms instead of exclusively through DOF technical staff;
(ii) stocking only indigenous species until an evaluation of the impact of exotic species on aquatic
biodiversity could be carried out; and, (iii) encouraging lower instead of higher stocking densities in
floodplain stocking so as to increase the chances that local communities would be able, progressively, to
take on the financial responsibility for stocking.



8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                  Category           Cost Incl.     % of   - Bank-        % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                 (US$M)   financing
1. Community-based Inland Open-water    Fingerlings,             17.1        28          8.2        47.9
Fisheries Management                   consultancies,
civil works,
1.1 Community-based stock enhancement    support to               7.9        12.9        3.0        38.0
1.2 Pilot fish passes/water regulatory   NGOs,
structures                            equipment,               4.6        7.5         3.4       73.9
1.3 Fish habitat restoration             studies,                 2.3         3.8        1.8        78.3
1.4 Pilot aquatic sanctuaries            monitoring               2.3         3.8        0.0         0.0
2. Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture             Civil works,            8.5        13.9         6.3       74.1
consultancies,
2.1 Completion of Third Fisheries polders  support to             4.8         7.9         3.4       70.8
2.2 Development of new polder            NGOs,                    3.4         5.5         2.7       79.4
2.3 Training of shrimp fry collectors     equipment,              0.3         0.5         0.2       66.7
monitoring
3. Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and    Equipment,
Training                               transport,               5.7        9.4         4.3       75.4
consultancies
4. Aquatic Resources Development,         Studies,                3.9         6.4         0.8       20.5
Management and Conservation Studies   consultancies,
equipment,
4.1 Management of hilsa areas              transport               1.1        1.8         0.5       45.5
4.2 Assessment of ecosystem integrity and                          1.1        1.8         0.0        0.0
sustainability
4.3 Ecological relations of exotic species                        0.3         0.5         0.0        0.0
4.4 Action plans and aquatic database                              1.1        1.8         0.0        0.0
4.2 Studies to prepare future projects                            0.3         0.5         0.3      100.0
5. Institutional Support to DOF and       Training, civil        25.8        42.3         8.5       33.0
Training of NGOs                          works,
transport,
5.1 Project Management Unit               equipment,               1.0        1.6         0.2       20.0
5.2 National and expatriate consultants   consultancies           10.6       17.4         0.0        0.0
5.3 Transport, machinery and equipment                            7.1        11.6         3.4       47.9
5.4 Training                                                       1.4        2.3         0.0        0.0
5.5 Construction of DOF District Offices                           1.1        1.8         1.0       90.9
5.6 Flood Damage Rehabilitation                                   4.7         7.7         3.9       83.0
Total                                    ______________          60.8       100.0        28.0       46.1



9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support relevant policy reforms identified by GOB inter-ministerial consultations
(Ministries of Fisheries and Livestock, Land, Water Resources, Finance, Agriculture, Forest and
Environment, and Local Government and Rural Development) for the successful implementation of the
various components of the proposed project. These policy reforns pertain to assuring greater community
involvement in, and responsibility for, sustainable management of fisheries resources. Accordingly, the
project would ensure community involvement in all steps of the inland fisheries management and coastal
aquaculture development. A number of agreements would be needed between the Ministry of Fisheries
and Livestock (MOFL) and other ministries/agencies. These include agreements with:
(a)   the Ministry of Land (MOL) or the Ministry of Youth and Sports (as the case may be) to transfer
the fisheries management ofjalmohals (water bodies) in selected floodplains under the proposed
project to DOF for a period of seven years as requested on a case-by-case basis. DOF would in
turn, on a pilot basis, transfer the management of fisheries to local communities under a gear-
based licensing system, also for a period of seven years. A tentative list ofjalmohals identified as
available for stocking and establishment of sanctuaries has been submitted to the Secretary,
MOL. MOFL provided to IDA and DFID a short list of 20 floodplains from those developed
under TFP that could be stocked during the first year of stocking (year two of project) under the
project;
(b)    MOL to transfer fisheries management of selected canals, channels, and beels2 for fish habitat
restoration to MOFL/DOF for seven years. DOF in turn would put the habitats under
community-based management, also for a period of seven years. The communities would be
responsible for the operations and maintenance of the restored habitats. DOF has assembled a
short list of habitats for which restoration could be initiated in the second year of the project;
(c)   the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) to allow borrow pits to be leased through DOF to
groups of poor fishing families and groups of women on a long-term basis (seven years) with the
assistance of NGOs. The MOFL has confirmed with MOWR that any borrow pits developed
under the project would be made available as noted above for a period of seven years;
(d)    MOWR/BWDB to permit construction of fish passes and modifications to existing sluice gates to
make them more suitable for fish migration. Beneficiaries would be responsible for the routine
operations and maintenance costs of the structures. A list of FCDI projects where fish passes
and/or fish-friendly structures could be constructed has been identified by BWDB based on the
work done under the Second Small Scale Flood Control Drainage and the Irrigation Project and
Flood Action Plan (FAP) 6 study. BWDB, with DOF, has prepared a short list of 12 fish passes
and eight regulators from which those to be developed under the project would be selected;
(e)    MOL to permanently not renew leases of channels in polders taken up for shrimp development
under the project. The project would only work in polders where leases have expired and are not
renewed. The beneficiaries would be responsible for routine operations and maintenance of the
water management works. The Government provided to IDA during negotiations the status of
lease of channels inside the proposed shrimp polders -- most of the channels are free of leases;
and
(f)    BWDB to transfer the operation and maintenance (O&M) responsibility of project financed water
management works in shrimp polders to community-based organizations once the works are
2  Small lake, low-lying depression, a permanent body of water in a floodplain or a body of water created by rains
or floods that may or may not dry up in the dry season.



10
completed. No works would be taken up for polder improvement under the project until
agreement is reached with the respective community of its commitment to taking on routine
O&M responsibilities of the water management works. Any required major repairs would be
done by BWDB. A draft National Water Policy, which provides guidelines for stakeholders'
participation, has been prepared which would allow BWIDB to transfer O&M responsibilities to
community-based organizations/local government.
The project would also support NGO involvement in the implementation of various components of the
project.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would be inclusive, supporting broad-based actions, which would improve opportunities and
services generally while addressing issues of equity and barriers to participation of poor men and women.
The long-term benefits of the project would be sustained access to fish for food and income for people in
Bangladesh. Those for whom fishing is a significant source of livelihood would be assured of that
livelihood into the future by interventions to arrest the decline of the resource and ensuring sustained
access. Enhancement of the resource, and the support of aquaculture development, would also lead to the
increase in financial and nutritional benefits from fisheries and the creation of employment opportunities.
The resource management approaches used would empower communities to take responsibility for the
resources they depend on and increase their self-reliance. Fish is the major source of animal protein for
many poor rural families and improved access to fish would ensure better nutritional status.
Environmental degradation, in the form of overexploitation of floodplain fisheries and poor water
management in shrimp producing areas would be arrested and reversed. Biodiversity would also be
conserved in these areas. The capacity of DOF, NGOs and other institutions to effectively and
sustainably support the fisheries sector would be strengthened and a service orientation encouraged.
At full operation, the project would be expected to account for incremental fish and shrimp production of
about 22,000 metric tons and 2,500 metric tons per annum, respectively. The project would also create
about 440,000 additional jobs per year.
Involvement in fisheries, and consumption of fish, is so diffused in Bangladesh that benefits from the
improvement of the sustainability of fisheries and enhancement of production would reach many people.
But the primary stakeholders in fisheries are mainly poor rural households. Those most dependent on
capture fisheries resources are almost entirely very poor households who suffer from low social status
and poor access to resources and alternatives. The project's interventions to set up appropriate,
beneficiary-led management mechanisms would benefit these people most, as they would be assured of
more secure access to sustainable fisheries and participation in decision-making over resource use.
Likewise, the implementation of management measures through these mechanisms, such as the
enhancement of fisheries production through stocking, habitat restoration, construction of fish passes and
the establishment of fish sanctuaries, would be of particular benefit to these primary resource-users. But
many equally poor landless rural laborers and small or marginal farmers who rely on fisheries on a
seasonal or occasional basis would also benefit. The resolution of conflicts over resource-use and the
definition of rights and management responsibilities would also benefit these users and ensure more
equitable access to fisheries benefits. The components that promote in-migration of fish (fish passes,
habitat restoration) would increase the proportion of smaller fish sizes which would benefit subsistence
fishermen.
Aquaculture and shrimp production components would involve mainly small-scale farmers - men and
women --who have access to land and ponds, and would create opportunities for employment for
laborers, resolve conflicts and arrest environmental degradation which have seriously affected the poor.



11
Shrimp seed collectors mostly come from the poorest strata of rural society and include many women and
children These would benefit by receiving training in more sustainable methods of collection and by
linking up with institutions and organizations which can provide them with services and support which
they currently lack. Increased fish production from all of these components would benefit rural and
urban consumers. NGOs would be involved extensively in the project, playing a key role as the interface
between the project, national level institutions, and the project's beneficiaries. They would benefit from
gaining vital experience in dealing with natural resource-management issues and providing better services
to their client populations and members.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The project would be implemented over a five-year period. However, the need
to plan for longer term support in order to establish sustainable community-based mechanisms for aquatic
resource management is recognized and would be addressed by a study to plan for future work beyond
the end of the project.
Executing Agency. Department of Fisheries (DOF) of the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL)
would be the main executing agency.
Project Implementation Plan. DOF has prepared a P,oject Implementation Plan (PIP). PIP and its
accompanying annexes record agreed-upon and time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria to be
used by DOF and other agencies for project implementation and the indicators to be used in project
monitoring and evaluation. It also shows how the various components would be managed and
coordinated and how the funds would be handled. In addition to the PIP, an annual implementation plan
including: (i) detailed implementation program for various components; (ii) procurement plan;
(iii) project management reporting requirements; and (iv) training plan covering contracts for training,
agreed and satisfactory to IDA, would be prepared. While this implementation plan would be as complete
as possible, community-based resource management such as that being undertaken by the project requires
a considerable amount of flexibility and adaptability during the course of implementation. Different
resource-user groups have different capacities for taking on resource management responsibilities and
time-frames may vary considerably from site to site. It would therefore be difficult to develop precise,
time-bound plans for many key components in the project. The process of implementation of the project
and the adjustments required by key institutions, such DOF and NGOs, would constitute important
learning and special attention needs to be paid to this aspect of implementation. Mechanisms for ensuring
constant review of progress, issues which arise and adjustment of planning to accommodate new learning
have been incorporated. The project team has appraised the draft PIP and determined that it is
satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the annual plans would be prepared.
Project Oversight. A Project Steering Committee comprising two NGOs, two private sector, and public
sector representatives has been set up under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MOFL, to guide project
preparation. GOB delegation confirmed during negotiations that the present Steering Committee would
be reconstituted by June 30, 1999 to guide the project during implementation.
Project Coordination. Project Coordination Committees comprising representatives of the
implementing agencies would be established at the ilational, district and thana levels.
Project Management Unit. Under ideal circumstances, project implementation should be carried out
through normal units of DOF, with a small Project Management Unit (PMU), under the direction of a
Project Coordinating Director (PCD), established to handle project financial management and reporting,
procurement and administration. However, the current organizational structure and staffing patterns of
DOF are far from ideal. Almost all staff are fisheries officers, and few staff with accounting skills or



12
expertise in social issues are available. The administrative arrangements do not provide adequate
independent internal controls. The present financial management capability in DOF is very weak. DOF
has an Accounts Officer and a Budget Officer. They are responsible for the budgeting and accounting of
the entire department and are not necessarily available to handle any project work. The department has
about 20 projects. The budget and accounts of the projects are separate from those of DOF. The
accounts of the projects are handled by each project's own personnel. There are no procurement
personnel in DOF, excepting an Engineering Cell which is mostly responsible for civil works. The
expertise of this cell is not suitable to handle multi-dimensional procurement. Given these deficiencies
and the large number of components included in the proposed project, a PMU would be established in
DOF. It would be headed by a Project Coordinating Director (a senior official of DOF with previous
experience in implementing donor-assisted projects) who would be assisted by four Deputy Project
Coordinating Directors for: (i) Open-water Fisheries Management; (ii) Freshwater Aquaculture;
(iii) Shrimp and Coastal Aquaculture; and (iv) Procurement, Administration, and Accounts. The PCD
would directly supervise: (i) Monitoring and Evaluation Cell through an Assistant Director; and
(ii) Engineering Cell through an Executive Engineer. The PMU would be responsible for planning and
carrying out tasks including financial management, accounting, procurement, administration, and
traini.ng. It would also be responsible for coordination of all project activities in accordance with a time-
bound action plan and for the annual review of project implementation plans. It would also coordinate
the activities of different government agencies and NGOs involved in the project, recruitment of
consultants and commissioning of special studies. It would be the main contact with the donors for all
project-related matters. Some of the deficiencies in DOF would be remedied by reallocation of
authorized positions, without violating GOB decisions against increasing staff numbers. The staffing of
the PMU would therefore be larger than usual. However, steps will be taken to ensure that the PMU does
not become an isolated entity within DOF and close links between project components and executive
branches of the DOF must be established and operational. The broader objectives of institutional capacity
building within the DOF more widely will necessitate close working relationships between the project
and other stakeholders. GOB delegation confirmed during negotiations that PCD and Deputy Project
Directors had been appointed. The Deputy Project Directors are those officers currently holding
executive positions for inland open-water, shrimp and coastal aquaculuture and freshwater aquaculture
extension and training.
Implementation Responsibilities by Component. BWDB and the Local Government Engineering
Department (LGED) would be responsible for all proposed civil works except for DOF facilities. For
such civil works, DOF would work closely with BWDB or LGED and with the NGOs involved. The
NGC)s would link the project and concerned institutions with the communities. They would play a leading
role in initial surveys, organization and capacity-building among resource-users and monitoring and
evaluation of project impacts. The following GOB departments, local communities, and selected NGOs
would work together in implementing the proposed project components as follows:
(1)    community-based inland open-water fisheries management:
1.1 stock enhancement -- DOF, local fishing communities, and NGOs;
1.2 pilot fish pass construction -- BWDB, DOF, local fishing communities, and NGOs;
1.3 fish habitat restoration (channel and beel re-excavation) -- LGED, DOF, local fishing
communities, and NGOs; and
1.4 aquatic sanctuaries -- DOF, local fishing communities, and NGOs;
(2)    coastal shrimp aquaculture -- BWDB, DOF, local fishing communities, and NGOs;



13
(3)   freshwater aquaculture extension and training -- DOF, NGOs, and private sector;
(4)   aquatic resources development, management, and conservation studies -- DOF, Bangladesh
Fisheries Research Institute (BFRI), and BWDB; and
(5)   institutional support to DOF and training of NGOs -- DOF.
Accounting and Financial Reporting Arrangements: PMU of DOF and BWDB agreed to design,
develop and maintain project financial management systems to meet IDA's requirements under OP/BP
10.02 and the guidelines under Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Accounts and records to
be maintained by PMU and BWDB will be capable of disclosing a true and fair view of the financial
position and of facilitating progress in monitoring the project. PMU and BWDB will prepare Project
Financial Statements and Project Management Reports separately, details are provided in Annex 6 and
included in the PIP.
The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) through its Directorate of Audits, Foreign Aided Projects,
(DOAFAP) would carry out the audits for the Project Accounts, Special Accounts and Statement of
Expenditures and two separate audit reports (DOF and BWDB) would be submitted to IDA within six
months from the end of each fiscal year. In addition, GOB agreed to carry out performance audits by
June 30, 2001(three months before the mid-term revievv) and December 31, 2003 (six months before the
closing date). A private firm of Chartered Accountants, acceptable to IDA, would be appointed to
conduct such audits. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that audit reports would be submitted
to IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. Assurances were also given during
negotiations that performance audits would be conducted.
Disbursements: Disbursements are projected over a period of five years, FYOO-FY04. Details on credit
proceeds are provided in Annex 6. Until June 30, 2001 current disbursement procedure will continue,
thereafter PMR based disbursement will introduced. Three Special Accounts will be opened -- two for
DOF (one for IDA funds and one for GEF), one for BWDB in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOB would implement a system satisfactory to IDA
for channeling funds required to implement the project..
Procurement. Procurement would be in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA as summarized
in Annex 6. Procurement would be in accordance with the procurement schedule presented in PIP,
Annex 9. Standard procurements, agreed with GOB, would be used. Procurement progress would be
included in the quarterly progress reports. In order to permit DOF to pay small bills, while awaiting
reimbursement from the IDA Special Account, GOB would have to finance a small revolving fund in
addition to normal matching funds through the Annual Development Program. Reimbursements from the
Special Account for such expenditures would be deposited back into the revolving fund.
Procurement of fingerlings would be done by the communities, based on procurement arrangements
acceptable to GOB and IDA (expected in most cases to be procured from small producers in the vicinity).
DOF staff, Floodplain Management Coordination Committee, and the NGOs working with these groups
would jointly certify actual delivery and acceptable quality. GOB would make payments directly to the
suppliers upon receipt of such certification. In the case of BWDB and LGED, procurement activities
under the project would be carried out by respective BWDB and LGED hierarchy. For BWDB works,
the engineering consultants, in association with representatives of the community, would certify the .
quantity and quality of works. For works implemented through LGED, the design and supervision would
be done by their own departmental engineers while the community representatives



14
would participate in design concepts, selection of canals and water bodies, general supervision and
operation and maintenance.
Monitoring and Evaluation. PMU would have overall responsibility for monitoring and evaluation.
The project objectives would be regularly monitored against agreed perfonnance indicators. Key
development indicators are presented in Annex 1. In order to monitor a project of this kind, and provide
information to project planners and stakeholders regarding impacts, project participants at various levels
would need to be involved. To monitor project impacts at the Project Development Objective level, some
monitoring down to the household and fishing unit level would be necessary. The involvement of NGOs
at the interface between the project and beneficiary communities would provide the opportunity for their
involvement in the monitoring and evaluation process. Monitoring and evaluation at this level can take
advantage of NGOs involvement with beneficiaries to use altemative, participatory approaches to
monitoring. These can also play a role in increasing beneficiary ownership of and involvement in the
entire process. For monitoring project implementation at a higher level, more detailed indicators required
would be presented in the PIP but there would be a need to revise and update these indicators as the
project develops. A consulting firm, to be funded under TA, would assist PMU in the area of monitoring
and evaluation.
Reporting, Mid-term and Completion Reviews. PMU would be responsible for preparing six-monthly
reports to be submitted to IDA and DFID not later than (date) and (date) of each year for the preceding
period. A Mid-term review would be held no later than half-way after credit signing (date). DOF, in
consultation with other implementing agencies, IDA, GEF, and DFID, would prepare in advance a
working paper to facilitate the review. The review would establish progress toward the main project
objectives and not merely an inventory of disbursements. The review would focus on the key indicators
presented in Annex 1. Recommendations of the review would include, if necessary, project restructuring
and would incorporate outputs from monitoring activities at all levels.
Project Supervision and Completion Report. IDA and DFID would conduct two joint supervision
missions per year. The first mission would correspond with a project launching workshop. DOF staff,
especially PMU staff responsible for monitoring and evaluation, would play a key role in these
supervision activities. Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
(outlined in the PIP) and would involve monitoring a number of key development objective indicators.
An implementation completion report (ICR) would be prepared within six months after the project closes
and would focus on the achievements of the project and its impact in relation to its objectives as reflected
by the indicators presented in Annex 1.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The management of fisheries resources by those dependent on those resources is central to the project.
The principal rationale behind this approach is that it is the people dependent on the use of a resource
who have the greatest vested interest in ensuring the sustainability of that resource. Provided they can be
assured of long-term control over the flow of benefits generated by the resource, it will be in their
interests to ensure that the resource is not depleted. But where external agencies control access and
apportion use-rights to local users for limited periods, resource-mining is encouraged. In the case of
floodplain fisheries, local fishers have no incentive to undertake, or observe, any measures to protect the
resource if they have no guarantee of continued access to that resource in the future, when the benefits of
protection would be reaped. This is particularly the case in inland fisheries in Bangladesh where the
majority of resource-users come from poor or vulnerable rural households whose priorities are dominated
by immediate survival, who have few alternatives available to them and whose access to all resources
tends to be precarious.



15
Experience from past projects in the sector, both in Bangladesh and elsewhere, has shown that resource
users can change their behavior from resource depletion to sustainable use provided they are able to exert
sufficient control over the resource. Experience from the IDA-funded Third Fisheries Project (TFP) in
Bangladesh showed how, with proper preparation and organization, communities can take responsibility
for the management of their local fisheries and take action to enhance the resources available. Several
other projects in Bangladesh involving local NGOs and international institutions such as the International
Centre for Living Aquatic Resources Management (ICLARM) have created a significant body of
experience and precedents where management by resource-users has proven to be a viable altemative to
centralized management by government. International experience recently reviewed and synthesized in
FAO publications has reinforced this learning3.
The alternatives, such as the establishment of an effective centralized system of fisheries management in
Bangladesh, with all the enforcement mechanisms required, would require unsustainable levels of
resources. Past experience also indicates that such systems are not appropriate for dealing with the
complexity of tropical floodplain fisheries dominated by artisanal fishers.
The adoption of a community-based approach to the management of fisheries in open-water floodplains is
further justified by the need to resolve the conflicting demands on water resources in general. These
demands change rapidly and require immediate responses and this means that locally-based, locally-
accountable and transparent organizations are generally better adapted than agencies based outside the
resource-user community. Experience in projects in the water sector, such as the CPP in Tangail, has
shown how locally developed user organizations can be effective in ensuring distribution of benefits from
a resource such as water which is equitable and widely accepted within the user community. Past
problems in shrimp production areas have shown how the needs of different user groups can conflict.
Where local level organizations are not in place to take such conflicts in hand, it is usually the poor who
lose out. By contrast, locally-based institutions are in a better position to reflect the diverse needs and
priorities of different interest groups. Both in floodplains and in shrimp polders the needs of fishers and
shrimp producers will have to be resolved with those of farmers, water transport and other rural sectors.
This is best done at the local level responding quickly to changing demands and circumstances.
A strategy of working through NGOs in setting up these resource-user organizations has been adopted,
rather than working directly with communities through DOF and project staff. This choice is based on
the experience of past projects, notably TFP, where NGOs played a key role in addressing the social
issues raised by resource enhancement. DOF also has limited resources to work at the field-level and has
limited skills in facilitation and mobilization at the community level. The twin role of fisheries officers as
extension agents and enforcers of regulations also leads to problems in community-level work. NGOs,
provided they have the capacity and experience, are more likely to have the sort of long-term
commitment to, and skills needed for working with, the community that are critical for supporting
community fisheries management.
All institutional arrangements and technical interventions developed under the project would need to be
appropriate for local resource-users and within their management capacity. The need for an approach
where interventions can be adjusted to adapt to local conditions and capacity has led to the adoption of a
process orientation to project planning. This is instead of a more traditional, and rigid, approach where
all project activities and inputs would be determined, in detail, prior to implementation. Instead, several
key aspects of the project, such as the exact location where different types of intervention would be
3      Petr, T. (ed), 1998. Inland Fisheries Enhancements. FAO Fisheries Technical Paper No.374. Papers
presented at the FAO/DFID Expert Consultation on Inland Fishery Enhancements. Dhaka, Bangladesh, 7-11 April,
1997. FAO, Rome; Hoggarth, D.D. et al., (in publication). Management Guidelines for Asian Floodplain River
Fisheries: Parts I and 2. FAO Fisheries Technical Paper xxx(number to be determined). FAO, Rome.



16
carried out, have been left open as their selection would ultimately be dependent on the people who
would be taking responsibility for them on the ground.
Technical recommendations adopted by the project would be affected by similar considerations. Where
communities select floodplain stocking as an option, lower densities would be recommended to avoid
problems of fingerling supply and make it easier for local fishers and other users to take over the costs by
the end of the project. Where sanctuaries are selected, it would be recommended that they protect only
key habitats or parts of local fishing grounds as opposed to larger areas covering complete water bodies
or floodplains. This would mitigate the potentially negative short-term impacts of reducing fishing effort
and leave areas open for fishing so as to ensure fisheries access at the same time as enhancing
sustainability. For similar reasons, the establishment of traditional, centrally-controlled protected areas
was rejected in favor of areas identified and managed by beneficiaries themselves. This was because the
intensity of resource-use, the level of dependence on the resource, and the constraints facing agencies
responsible for environmental protection and fisheries enforcement makes a traditional protected areas
approach impractical in Bangladesh. The potentially negative social and economic consequences of
establishing protected areas would also be avoided in this way.
In the planned completion of shrimp polders initiated by the TFP, great attention would be paid, not only
to creating appropriate beneficiary-group management institutions, but to ensuring that general consensus
among beneficiary-groups is obtained before proceeding with civil works. This approach has been
selected in preference to placing emphasis on technical interventions by outside agencies in order to
avo:id some of the conflicts which shrimp development has caused in the past. All interventions would be
conditional on the establishment of technical feasibility, with special attention to possible environmental
impacts, and general agreement among all potential stakeholders on the type of interventions required.
Local stakeholders, supported and guided by local NGOs, would be advised by experts from the relevant
technical agencies and the project on possible options but would be able to establish their own priorities
in the design of structures. This approach was selected to allow local people to establish ownership of the
project and ensure an equitable distribution of its benefits. It is also expected to lead to communities
taking on the bulk of responsibility for operation and maintenance of structures with BWDB only
intervening when required for major works.
Inclusion of shrimp processing in the project was considered in light of the recent EU embargo on shrimp
exports. Although this embargo has been lifted future disruption is a risk. The shrimp processing sector
is however receiving financial and technical assistance from other donors, notably EU and FAO. The
project did not include marine fisheries. Other donors, principally UTNDP and DFID are preparing
initiatives in coastal resource management and on the basis of those experiences a follow-on to this
project may be able to offer effective assistance, possibly as part of a sector investment program.
A sector investment project approach that would provide more leeway to deal with institutional and
policy issues was considered. While the approach would have significant advantages to the project
approach it was assessed to be too early to consider sector-wide financing at this stage. A National
Fisheries Policy has only just been approved and has not yet been translated into a rational strategy. The
institutions are weak and reorganization is necessary. This project will support such change and pave the
way for possible sector-financing as a follow-on initiative.



17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                        Project                 Latest Supervision (Form
590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementati  Development
on Progress    Objective
(IP)         (DO)
Bank-financed
Group formation; operation &    Shrimp Culture (Completed -- PCR         NA            NA
maintenance                     rating Satisfactory);
Technical viability of improved  Oxbow Lakes Fishery (Completed --       NA            NA
breeding and lake management    OED rating Unsatisfactory)
Technical, economic and social  Third Fisheries (Completed -- ICR and    NA            NA
viability of stocking open inland    OED rating Satisfactory)
waters with fingerlings
Fisheries research              Agricultural Research Management          S             S
Mitigation of damage to fisheries   Water Sector Improvement (planned);  NA            NA
Gorai River Restoration (planned);
Design to avoid environmental   Coastal Embankments Rehabilitation II    NA            NA
damage, including fisheries     (planned)
NA            NA
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank          Second Aquaculture Development
Project
DANIDA                          Aquaculture Extension in Mymensingh,
Phase I and II; Patuakhali Project
DFID                            Fisheries Training and Extension, Phase
II; Northwest Fisheries Extension
Project, INTERFISH,CAGES,GOLDA,
GMF, RDRS,SUFER
CIDA                            FAP 6
GEF/DOE                         Biodiversity and Conservation
ICLARM                          Community-based Fisheries
Management
IFAD/DANIDA                     Northwest Fishculture Extension
Oxbow Lakes Small Scale Fisheries
Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), IJ (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are several aspects of the current project which reflect learning from past experience. First of all,
the process by which the project has been formulated has brought together the borrower, the donors and,
most importantly, the principal stakeholders in identifying the key issues that the project should address.
Past projects were often formulated with relatively limited involvement of borrowers and eventual
beneficiaries, leading to a limited sense of ownership for both the borrower and beneficiaries and poor
sustainability as a result. This involvement of all key players from an early stage has been particularly
important given the complexity and scope of the project. The design process has involved inter and intra
departmental meetings; briefings with the local consultative sub-group on fisheries; extensive field visits
were undertaken at thana and district levels to collect field information, stakeholder meetings at thana and
district levels; Divisional workshops; inter-ministerial meetings, national seminar followed by a process
of continuous dialogue and consultation. The leadership provided by DOF in project preparation is
indicative of how experience from previous projects has been internalized by DOF and mainstreamed into
the project design process.
TFI' identified beneficiary involvement from an early stage as being critical. Long-term sustainability of
community-based floodplain fisheries management relies on the beneficaires ultimately being willing to
bear the cost of management themselves. Experience has shown that they are willing to do this if: (i) the
benefits are clear; (ii) long-term control over the resource is assured; (iii) appropriate mechanisms are
identified to distribute costs among potential beneficiaries; and (iv) those costs somehow reflect the
benefits obtained by different beneficiary groups. This final point was of considerable importance and
has led to the recommendation which the project would make to participating communities that
maniagement interventions be accompanied by the introduction of gear-based licensing system which
would allow cost sharing and a transparent and equitable distribution of access and benefits.
An appreciation of the critical role of NGOs has also been derived from experience from TFP,
International Centre for Living Aquatic Resources Management (ICLARM) Community-based Fisheries
Management Project, and IDAJDANIDA supported Oxbow Lakes Project. Where NGOs were not
originally involved in such projects it has generally been necessary to bring them in at a later date to help
resolve the problems and conflicts which can arise where fisheries enhancement and management has
been imposed from outside. Independent of donor funding, there are also other NGO-supported activities
in several locations in Bangladesh which have provided valuable experience in the NGO-sector in
fisheries and water-resource management.
TFP was also involved in the promotion of smallholder shrimp culture and many important lessons have
been learned from this experience. Failure to anticipate possible social conflicts can have serious
implications for projects in this sector. Thorough consultation with different stakeholders and the
identification and recognition of their conflicting interests is critical if a commonly acceptable solution is
to be found. Technical solutions need to be simple and manageable and over-intensification should be
avoided. NGOs have been shown to be able to play an important role as they can also assist poorer, more
vulnerable stakeholders to protect their interests in the face of pressure from more powerful elite. The
need for this careful preparatory work has been recognized in project design.
In the aquaculture extension component, one of the principal objectives would be to take the extensive
learning about aquaculture extension accumulated in Bangladesh over the last two decades and integrate
it into a coherent extension strategy for the country. It has been seen that "blueprint" approaches are not
adequate and a more flexible strategy needs to be developed. Experience from a DFID-funded projects
has suggested that a experiential learning approaches can be particularly effective in helping to promote
a more equitable distribution of benefits among community members. Experience from an ADB-funded
Second Aquaculture Development Project and various DANIDA-supported projects in aquaculture, as
well as on-going aquaculture extension and training programs have all provided valuable learning which



19
would assist the project in developing a viable strategy. Close co-ordination with on-going projects
would be important to ensure consistency and effective implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
A Steering Committee comprising representatives of public, private, and NGO sectors has been set up
under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MOFL, to guide project preparation. It has been agreed that the
committee would to be retained to guide project implernentation. DOF, with support of consultants, is
responsible for project preparation. An extensive participatory approach is being followed to ensure
ownership by key stakeholders. Staff of implementing agencies have been involved in intensive
discussions with IDA missions. GOB's commitment is also reflected in the cabinet's recent approval of a
National Fisheries Policy and agreement to transfer management of water bodies selected to be supported
under the project to DOF for a period of seven years. I)OF would transfer fisheries management to
communities for the same length of time. GOB has also agreed not to renew leases to canals in polders
selected for shrimp development. It has also approved the Project Concept Paper.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
A strong leadership role is required given the magnitude of issues and the number of donors working in
the sector and the impact of investments of other sectors on fisheries. Collectively, the Bank and DFID
are in a unique position to play that role given their role in coordinating policies and donor activities in
the sector and their accumulated understanding of whal. is needed to develop the sector (acquired through
project and sector work). They are also in a position to build partnerships with experts in the sector and
NGOs (including local, regional, national, and foreign NGOs), other institutions, and donors.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4 and Annex 4A):
[X I Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 106.6 million; ERR= 48%4
Economic analysis was carried out for all project components that have direct and quantifiable benefits.
The main project benefits would be increased fish and shrimp production through various investment
interventions and better resource management; increased employment opportunities; and aquatic
biodiversity conservation. All this would be expected i.o contribute to rural poverty alleviation.
Sensitivity, risk, distributive, and fiscal impact analyses were also done. Details on methodology and
assumptions are given in Annexes 4 and 4A. Results of the economic analysis are presented Annex 4A,
Table 7. The project's overall net present value (NPV) discounted at 12% is Taka 5,263.4 million (about
US$106.6 million) and the overall economic rate of return (ERR) is 48%. The ERRs for each component
are much higher than 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh. The project
significantly enhances the net economic wealth of Bangladesh. The increase in availability of fish for
domestic consumption, and the foreign exchange earned through export of shrimp generate substantial
benefits to society. In fact, the economic NPV is larger than the financial return on investment.
Inland open-water fisheries component, including the training program, enhances the net wealth of the
economy through the increase in fish production. The people in Bangladesh are better off, since the
project is able to increase the supply of a staple food. ERRs for the inland open-water fisheries sub-
components range from 30% (fish passes and regulators) to 183% (aquatic sanctuaries). The shrimp
component shows a marked improvement since the economic value of the shrimp exports is higher than
the export price, due to the foreign exchange premium gained through exports. The investment costs are
lower as well, since the economic costs of most of the investments are lower than their financial values.
Two sub-components (hilsa conservation and shrimp fry collection) for which incremental benefits are difficult to
estimate were excluded from the economic analysis reported in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan. The
overall ERR falls to 39% when these two sub-components are excluded.



20
Therefore, the economic NPV of the shrimp component is 50% greater than the financial NPV. ERRs for
the shrimp sub-components are 70%, 22%, and 59% for completion of TFP polders, development of a
new polder, and improvement in shrimp fry collection methods, respectively. Freshwater aquaculture
extension component has an NPV of Taka 1,149 million and ERR of 77%. Hilsa conservation shows a
high ERR of 282% due to high returns associated with low investments.
The economic outcome is sensitive to a reduction in production factor (yield) and cost overruns (Annex
4A, Table 9). A reduction in the production factor substantially affects the economic outcome as well as
the financial results. A catastrophe in the form of fish or shrimp disease or serious drought, which would
significantly alter the expected yields would affect the economic NPV in two ways: the lower economic
return due to less fish that may be available for consumption and the loss of positive economic
externalities through shrimp exports which gain a foreign exchange premium. A 50% reduction in yield
can compromise the economic viability of the project. A combination of negative changes in production
and investment cost can impact the project adversely (Annex 4A, Table 10). For example, a combined
40% decrease in fish yield and 30% increase in investment cost or 35% decrease in yield and 60%
increase in cost would make the NPV become negative and ERR fall below 12%. The likelihood of such
high negative changes in yield and cost occurring at the same time is low.
The riskiness of the NPV can be inferred from the standard deviation that result from the risk analysis
(Annex 4A, Table 16). Based on the selected risk variables, the economic and the financial returns are
equally affected by the possible fluctuations. It is significant to note that neither analysis yields a
probability of obtaining a negative NPV (Table 17). However, this does not mean that it would be
impossible for this project to fail. This analysis is based on the assumption that the project has the
institutional capacity and management to operate the facilities in a manner so that costs would be
contained and the production yields would be realized within the assumed range and distribution for these
key variables and that fish and shrimp disease outbreak is unlikely. The project seeks to manage risks
associated with this assumption by concentrating efforts on increasing institutional capacity. While
incremental production is difficult to accurately forecast, sensitivity analysis confirms the robustness of
the results. Also, the project remains strong even when those components for which incremental
production is difficult to estimate (hilsa management and shrimp fry collection) are excluded from the
anal,ysis. Shrimp disease has been common in Bangladesh but the project will promote only semi-
intensive forms of production, minimizing the risks of disease.
There is an opportunity cost to using credit and grant money in any project. Although grants do not
require repayment, the project is utilizing financial resources that would otherwise be used elsewhere in
the economy. The financing of the project with IDA credit and DFID and GEF grants can be justified in
this case, however, since the project is able to increase the net economic wealth of Bangladesh.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and 4A): NPV=US$ 83.7 million; FRR= 37%
Financial analysis was also done for all components with direct and quantifiable benefits. The results are
presented in Annex 4A, Table I.The project is extremely robust in its potential to increase fish and
shrimp yields and provide a sound financial return on these investments. Since there are various
stakeholders, the project was evaluated from an unleveraged total investment point-of-view. Each
component that increases the catch generates a positive NPV. In the inland open-water fisheries
component, stocking and aquatic sanctuaries show very high returns. In fact, aquatic sanctuaries provide
an NPV that is three times greater than the present value (PV) of its investment. The fish passes sub-
component also has a NPV similar to the aquatic sanctuaries, but requires substantially higher
investments in order to obtain such a return.
The coastal shrimp aquaculture component provides substantial revenues due to the increases in yield
and the high export price. The completion of the polders begun in the previous project captures all the



21
revenue but only incurs the cost of completion, since the benefits would be absent in the event it is not
completed. The costs are small relative to the benefits since a large part of the investment was already
undertaken during the previous project. This is indicated by the higher NPV/PV-of-Costs ratio. The new
polder that is expected to be developed by the project provides an adequate albeit relatively lower rate of
return, because the entire cost of building infrastructure in the polder is attributed to the project. The
NPV/PV-of-Cost ratio indicates that the return relative to investment is significantly lower than the
previous sub-component.
Past experience shows that extension and training programs generally lead to more efficient fish
cultivation techniques and practices that benefit fishernen. The project includes such a component
designed to harness all the potential of the other components by further increasing the yields. This
component generates an NPV of Taka 1,108.4 million and an FRR of 69%.
The fisheries studies and the project management investments do not generate a positive NPV since we
are unable to allocate the costs of these general expenditures to any specific project components. They
are expected, however, to have a significant impact on the project's returns, since support to DOF is
deemed necessary to harness all other project benefits. Therefore, these investments are best evaluated as
a part of the complete project rather than as individual components. When analyzed together, the project
remains robust as it generates an NPV of Taka 4,134.4 million and an FRR of 37%.
Fiscal impact:
Externalities received by GOB are some of the fiscal irmnpacts of the project. GOB gains incremental tax
revenue on all taxable project costs. It also gains incremental tariff revenue on any importable input
utilized by the project, while it bears the foreign exchange premium costs. The contribution that would
be made by the beneficiaries is another source of revenue for GOB.
The project provides GOB with Taka 11,290 lakh in net revenues through the externalities generated by
project components as detailed in Annex 4 (see also Ainex 4A,Table 12). The Completion of TFP
Polders provides the greatest fiscal revenue since it generates tax and tariff revenues from the large
investment as well as the foreign exchange premium that result from shrimp exports. GOB's fiscal
budget is also affected by outflows due to project costs since GOB bears most of the investment costs.
DOF only receives the fishermen's contribution to the investment. The revenues from increased
production are captured solely by the fishermen. The resulting budgetary shortfall is expected to be
funded through the IDA-led financing package as well as the extemality revenues generated by the
project. The remaining deficit, estimated to be Taka 8,810 lakh in present value terms must be supplied
in the form of subsidies by GOB (Annex 4). The operational budgetary shortfall has a present value of
Taka 6,794 lakh. GOB's yearly budget cash flows prior to and with financing are illustrated in Annex
4A, Tables 13 and 14, respectively. This is in addition to the investment financing being arranged with
the various funding agencies. The average net real annual GOB budget outlay during the operation phase
of the project would be about Taka 700 lakh. Even though this is not a substantial outlay, GOB must
have a plan to finance the operational costs it would incur on behalf of the project.
Some components/sub-components of the project would require net subsidies from GOB after collecting
tax revenues and including external financing (Annex 4). Hilsa conservation has the highest subsidy
element (Taka 216.3 million), followed by inland open-water fisheries stock enhancement (Taka 194.9
million), fish passes (Taka 174 million), aquatic sanctuaries (Taka 142.4 million), habitat restoration
(Taka 51.4 million), and development of new shrimp polder (Taka 29.2 million). These subsidies are
justified because the benefits to society from the project are substantial. In spite of high financial reiurns,
the private sector would not be expected to invest in hilsa conservation due to non-excludability of those
not sharing in the investment. The same argument applies to fish passes, aquatic sanctuaries, and habitat
restoration. While the Government may be able to exclude some people from fishing in the floodplains



22
through licensing, an individual investor cannot do it. The shrimp component would be attractive to large
private investors. However, government subsidy is justified on social grounds. Social problems have
arisen where larger investors in shrimp farning, often from outside the local community, attempt to
enforce their own priorities for management on local farmers. Land for shrimp culture has, on occasions,
been expropriated by larger investors at the expense of small landowners. This has led to small-holders
either being excluded from shrimp farming or being unable to practice mixed shrimp and rice farming.
Public provision of the infrastructure would remove the barrier to entry for the small-holders.
3. Technical:
All of the activities proposed under the proposed Inland Open-water Fisheries, Coastal Shrimp
Aquaculture, and Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training components have all been
demonstrated to be technically feasible in Bangladesh under IDA and other operations and initiatives in
the country. Details of the design of each of these components can be found in Annex 2. Of these, the
stocking of open-water bodies has been tested by TFP and Second Aquaculture Development Project.
The proposed aquaculture extension strategy has been tested in Northwest Fisheries Project. The
establishment of aquatic sanctuaries, the establishment of fish passes and fish friendly regulators and the
habitat restoration components have data from a limited number of test operations carried out by
ICLARM, FAP 6 and CNRS, respectively. These sub-components would be developed as pilot
operations under the project with intensive monitoring to verify the estimated production and
environmental benefits of their implementation. The Hilsa Conservation and Management sub-
component's design -- a study under the Aquatic Resources Development, Management and
Conservation Studies (ARDMCS) component -- has little prior experience in Bangladesh. That sub-
component would be carefully monitored to determine the extent to which the anticipated incremental
benefits are realized. The proposed ARDMCS are a critical element in project design. The information
gained from these studies would help in making adjustments to operation and management of the Open-
water Fisheries and Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture components to improve production efficiency and to
mainstream aquatic biodiversity conservation into inland fisheries management and coastal shrimp seed
collection.
A key element in the formulation of the production components under the project has been the
comprehensive consultation and participation of all stakeholders in their design. In addition, the
operation of most of the components envisaged in the Inland Open-water Fisheries and Coastal Shrimp
Aquaculture components would be handled directly by the primary beneficiaries, with assistance from
NGC)s in organizing the communities to assume their respective responsibilities. The importance of this
participation, and the mobilization and organization required to articulate it, to the success of the
technical interventions planned by the project means that close co-operation between the technical
components of the project and the social and institutional components would be essential. The project
would also include a strong institutional strengthening component with the PMU specifically and DOF
morc generally receiving technical and management support from an expert team of expatriate and
national consultants.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies. DOF would be the main executing agency for the project under the overall
leadership of the Director General, DOF, who reports to the Secretary, MOFL. DOF has a presence in all
parts of the country up to the thana level. It has implemented a large number of donor-assisted projects -
currently there are about 20 projects under implementation. DOF is a long established department with a
strong focus on fish biology and production. However, the staff lack skills in social, economic, and
institutional development and community participation for effective fisheries management. DOF is also
weak in procurement, accounting, and financial management. These skills are important and need to be



23
strengthened. The traditional role of DOF has been protection and control of the fisheries resource. The
new role implied by thevrecently issued National Fisheries Policy requires a fundamental change in
approach, from regulation and control to participation and cooperation with local communities, the
private sector, and NGOs, and provision of advice. The project would foster this emerging change in
approach. National and international consultants would be recruited in professional areas in which DOF
lacks expertise and which are particularly important for project success. To ensure that DOF's
dependence on TA is gradually reduced, partnerships would be established between individual
consultants and DOF officers who would both have offices within DOF headquarters building and
through the training program that would be supported by the project.
While it would be desirable to implement this project through the existing executive branches of the
Department of Fisheries, after careful appraisal the decision was made to establish a Project Management
Unit (PMU). The outcome of appraisal also determined the type of expertise from national and
international consultants required to assist in project implementation as well as the training program to be
supported by the project. Consideration was also given on how to wean DOF from its dependence on TA.
Project activities would continue through the PMU while overall institutional capacity building would be
going on in parallel. A training specialist would be recruited to develop training programs with other
technical specialists for DOF and NGO staff who in turn would train the project beneficiaries. Thus, the
strategy is not only to build capacity in DOF, but also in NGOs and in CBOs. In the long-term, the latter
would undertake some of the tasks currently dealt with by DOF. Unlike in previous cases, the consultants
and DOF staff will have offices within the DOF headquarters building to establish partnerships and
ensure team work. In addition to supporting the PMU and paying for consultants, the project would also
assist in translating the recently issued National Fisheries Policy into action.
BWDB and LGED are the other implementing agencies. BWDB is familiar with implementation of
donor-assisted projects. It was also involved in the implementation of the IDA-assisted Shrimp Culture
Project and the shrimp component of TFP. While BWDB has some weaknesses, it is capable of
implementing the components assigned to it with the assistance of a consulting firm. LGED is a well
respected department which has a demonstrated record of ability to carry out civil works.
NGOs are going to be involved in the implementation of almost all components. NGOs made vital
contributions to TFP. Their involvement would significantly improve the chances of a successful
implementation of the project and ensure the longer-term sustainability of project interventions as they
are in a position to commit themselves to supporting resource-user communities for longer periods.
While the technical knowledge of some NGOs is limited, their community skills are high and they would
constitute a key element in the project structure. At the local level, NGOs would also help the project
achieve closer co-operation with supporting services, particularly micro-credit institutions, and local-level
coordinating agencies. These may be extremely important in ensuring project sustainability. The
capacity of NGOs to provide these linkages would be included in the criteria used for NGOs selection for
co-operation with the project.
b. Project management. A PMU would be established in DOF and would be responsible for
coordinating all project activities and for planning and carrying out tasks including financial
management, accounting, procurement, administration, and training. It would be headed by a Project
Coordinating Director who would be assisted by four Deputy Project Directors. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that full professional staffing of the PMU would be made.



24
5. Social:
The main social development goals of the project are: increased domestic fish consumption, increased
rural employment, and decrease in rural poverty. The preparation of the project has taken these social
development goals into consideration, for example, through the use of local and international consultants.
Likewise, TFP provided a wealth of data and experiences that were brought to bear on the present project.
All project components have been assessed with regard to these social development goals. A detailed
social assessment is presented in Annex 12.
The social framework for the project has been designed to provide the project authorities with an overall
framework to guide the identification, preparation, appraisal, and implementation of the project taking
sociaLl issues into account. The framework provides the basis for an ongoing social assessment process
which will guide decision-making related to designs, community involvement, and maximizing the
positive social impact of the project. It also contains the principles upon which support mechanisms are
to be based if the project causes negative and involuntary impacts of a socio-economic nature. The
framework can be found in the project files.
One of the special emphases of the proposed project is rural poverty alleviation. However, it is
recognized that increased production alone does not necessarily guarantee a reduction in poverty. Thus,
the project design puts a great deal of emphasis on access to fisheries resources by the poor. The
project's social development goals would be achieved through targeted activities in the individual
components. Project design, implementation, and operation would follow a collaborative management
(also referred to as co-management) system that integrates all key stakeholders in the project activities.
The project's overall strategy for inland open-water fisheries management provides the local fishing
communities with a variety of options to address the problems facing the sub-sector through different
management measures consisting of stocking, habitat restoration, establishment of fish sanctuaries,
construction of fish passes, or a combination of these options; and shrimp farming. The unifying feature
of these interventions would be the central role of the communities in determining the appropriateness of
different management measures, and the subsequent assumption of responsibility for their management
and the accompanying costs. The communities, with technical guidance from DOF, BWIDB, and LGED
on the one hand, and NGO assistance on social issues on the other hand, would be allowed to choose
which of these options or combination of options is most appropriate for their circumstances. The
communities would be fully involved not only in the selection of options, but also in their design and
implementation.
Stocking. TFP experience shows that stocking of floodplains with fingerlings can have a combination of
positive and negative impacts, especially on the poorer resource users. The nature of the impact depends
on a complex interplay of factors in which social and management aspects clearly are of paramount
importance. Given this experience, the proposed project places emphasis on the development of
appropriate management mechanisms at the community level. The stocking density as well as the species
composition would largely be decided by the community that would pay for it in the long run. The
emphasis in the fisheries stock enhancement sub-component would be on the smaller water bodies where
fishing communities can be more easily organized into groups to manage project activities, hence
ensuring that the benefits are available directly to fishermen and equitably distributed. TFP experience
also zshows that NGOs can play a critical role in helping organize the fishing communities to ensure
access to the water bodies. Hence an NGO would be recruited to assist each community in determining
what option, or a combination of options, offered by the project would be appropriate for their situation,
in advance of commencement of project-assisted activity in the community.
Habit restoration. There is potential for conflict between rice farmers and fishermen in the areas
selected for habit restoration. Project design provides for creating mechanisms beforehand in



25
communities to resolve possible conflicts that may arise, for example, from attempts to restore fish
habitat.
Fish passes. The site selection for fish passes and regulators would have to take into account the
feasibility of establishing workable management mechanisms. These would have to mediate between the
varied, and often conflicting, interests of different water user groups within the command area.
Sanctuaries. In view of economic and social consequences of permanently banning fishing over an
extended period of time in large water bodies to be declared aquatic sanctuaries, the serious problems of
enforcing such a ban, and the likely sustainability after the credit closes, a decision was taken to delineate
the sanctuary in only a portion of the fished area as a place for the natural spawning and nurturing of fish.
This would ease the difficulties of restricting fishing by regulation and of finding alternative livelihoods
for the people affected in the reserved area. Protection would be organized and provided on a voluntary
basis by local fishermen.
Shrimp farming. Social problems have arisen where larger investors in shrimp farming, often from
outside the local community, attempt to enforce their own priorities for management on local farmers.
Land for shrimp culture has, on occasions, been expropriated by larger investors at the expense of small
landowners. This has led to smallholders either being excluded from shrimp farming or being unable to
practice mixed shrimp and rice farming. The shrimp development component would aim at addressing
some of the social problems facing this rapidly developing sub-sector and which undermine its
sustainability. The thrust would be on helping smaller landowners to participate more directly in shrimp
farming. Community consultation and organization with the assistance of an experienced NGO is the
foundation upon which this component would be implemented, based on prior experience in the sub-
sector. Any civil works would be preceded by agreement with the community involving them in the
design concepts, site selection, general supervision of i.mplementation work, and operation and
maintenance.
Project design takes gender into account. While women would be encouraged to participate as much as
possible in all project activities, the component most directly benefiting women would be the training in
shrimp fry collection, an activity which provides employment to tens of thousands of poor women and
children in the coastal areas. Because of the limited requirements in terms of skills and equipment
required for fly collection, it has attracted the involvement of many poor people for whom it has come to
represent either an important supplement to their incomes or their sole source of livelihood. Many
women and children are known to be actively involved in fry collection. Unfortunately, the catch methods
used, inappropriate handling, and poor transportation result in considerable wastage. Promoting more
environmentally friendly collection techniques would lhelp make their livelihoods sustainable. Re-
excavation of canals and beels would also provide an important source of income for groups of targeted
poor, including poor women, who are usually employed in earthworks. Aquaculture extension will also
consider the role of women in managing homestead ponds, and experience from other projects will
inform this targeting.
Land acquisition needs under the project would be minimal (about 20 ha). Provision has been made in
project costing for compensating those whose land may be acquired. On the issue of possible
resettlement of families because of the 20 ha that would be acquired, GOB and IDA would agree (during
negotiations) that procedures and guidelines outlined in the social framework would be followed in
dealing with resettlement issues.



26
6 Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     [] A   [X] B  []C
The main environmental concerns are reviewed in Annex 11 to this PAD. They are described in detail in
the: Environmental Assessment Report for the proposed project that can be found in the project file. IDA
concluded from the latter report that the project is an Environmental Category B project since the project
components were found to have relatively limited environmental impact potential; and for those adverse
impacts which could potentially occur, there exists reasonably straightforward and understood mitigation
measures to mitigate impacts.
Generally, the improvement in sustainable management of the aquatic environment and fisheries in
Bangladesh is one of the major objectives of the project, and the project design has been formulated to
achieve this objective to the degree possible. Nevertheless, some of the proposed project components
coul,d have potential adverse impacts on the environment if not implemented properly and monitored
careiFully to make any needed adjustments in component implementation and management. The issues
by component are as follows:
(a) Inland Open-water Fisheries Management:
i. possible adverse impacts on indigenous biodiversity due to the potential introduction of exotic
species;
ii. potential adverse impacts upon non-stocked species due to introduction of large numbers of the
few stocked species released in open waters;
iii. potential adverse impacts on genetic diversity of stocked indigenous species due to
introduction of large numbers of hatchery-produced fingerlings derived from a limited gene
pool;
iv. possibilities of pathogen transmission to wild stocks due to stocking of diseased fingerlings;
and
*v. potential change in hydrology within polders in which fish passes, fish friendly regulators, and
habitat restoration would be established.
(b) Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture:
i. the shrimp culture period extends into the rice growing period reducing the time needed for
paddy to mature; and
ii. the collection of wild shrimp seed increases fishing pressure on shrimp larvae and other larvae
further threatening coastal biodiversity and marine and inland fisheries productivity.
(c) Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training:
i. escape of fish stocked in ponds;
ii. degradation of pond water quality and effluent management; and
iii. potential bio-accumulation in culture fish of naturally occurring arsenic in groundwater, if is
used to fill aquaculture ponds.
Overall, these potential adverse environmental impacts that could result from implementation of the
project components have been identified and minimized in the project design. In addition, the project
would include the Global Environmental Facility (GEF)-assisted Aquatic Resources Development,
Management, and Conservation Studies (ARDMCS) component. This component includes all required
environmental monitoring activities that would be necessary to assess the above potential impacts and
provide the knowledge necessary to make adjustments, where possible, in project design should estimated
impacts of the project be exceeded. The ARDMCS would also strengthen the institutional capacity of
DOF, BWDB, and Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) to mainstream



27
aquatic biodiversity in their development activities, as result of their participation in and support gained
toward this objective under the project.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
A recently approved National Fisheries Policy has features that show a fundamental change in DOF's
approach from regulation and control to participation and cooperation with local fishing communities and
NGOs. The way in which the project is being prepared shows a marked strategy shift in DOF. DOF has
made a serious attempt to initiate partnership as a basic fisheries development strategy. This is reflected
in project design. There has been extensive consultation, collaboration, and information sharing between
DOF and other government ministries and agencies, beneficiaries/community groups, private sector,
NGOs, academic institutions, and donor agencies during the identification and preparation of the project.
A series of participatory workshops that included all categories of stakeholders have been conducted at
the local, thana, district, divisional, and national levels to share information with key stakeholders and to
seek their views on project design. This consultation, collaboration, and information sharing would be
expected to continue during the implementation and operation phases of the project. The project would,
in turn, contribute to fostering this emerging major change. Implementation responsibilities by
component shows that all major stakeholders (communities, DOF, BWDB, NGOs) would be involved in
implementation.
The resource-users themselves are the key stakeholders in sustainable fisheries development. Their
participation and adoption of management roles would be a key feature of inland fisheries management
and coastal aquaculture components. Their participation would be institutionalized through a range of
appropriate mechanisms. Past examples of such mechanisms developed in the TFP and other projects
have been Beel Management Committees (BMCs), but, depending on the particular case, they might be
called Floodplain Management Committees, Sluice Gate or Fish Pass Management Committees,
Sanctuary Management Committees or Canal or Water Management Committees where the issue is not
just one of fisheries access but of water control and resolution of multiple water-use issues. These
committees would be the main decision making body in the floodplain stocking program. Particular
attention would be paid to the inclusion and representation of vulnerable groups, such as the very poor
women, to ensure that their concerns are accommodated and that they share in the benefits generated by
the project.
Bangladesh has a network of rural-based NGOs with strong involvement in fisheries development. The
experience with TFP showed that NGOs have a comparative advantage in organizing local communities,
conducting participatory activities, and facilitating the participatory process. Since the communities
would be expected to play a greater role under the proposed project than they did under TFP, the role of
NGOs would be expected to be even more critical. For this reason, two NGOs are represented on the
Steering Committee guiding preparation of the project. The NGOs would be involved in the
implementation of all components. Some of their key functions would include: community organization
and mobilization; capacity building and skill development; participatory action oriented education and
extension; providing linkages among themselves and between them and DOF/GOB; creating linkages,
where required, between existing credit mechanisms and resource-user groups; creating environmental
awareness in the communities; and giving feedback to DOF.



28
b. Other key stakeholders:
While DOF is the lead institution within GOB responsible for the project, important roles would also be
played by several other GOB ministries and agencies. The cooperation of other ministries and agencies
(MOL, MOWR, MLGRD, Finance, BWDB, LGED, FRI) is sought in the project through consultations
and interactions. BWDB would be involved where water bodies under their control are targeted for
improvement or management and where the improvement of flood-control structures would be required.
MOL, which controls the leases for fisheries in key water bodies, would also play a fundamental role in
ensuring that access rights on selected water bodies are transferred to DOF that, in turn, would transfer
such rights to the fishing communities immediately. LGED would also be engaged in the planning and
implementation of engineering works which would be required for habitat restoration. The private sector
is represented on the Steering Committee. DOF would continue to share project information with the
Local Consultative Group on Fisheries.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Projiect sustainability would be addressed at three levels: technical, institutional, and financial.
Technical sustainability. Inland open-water fisheries management (stock enhancement, habitat
restoration, fish passes/regulators, and aquatic sanctuaries), coastal shrimp aquaculture, and freshwater
aquaculture extension and training components of the project appear technically sustainable. There
would be special focus on appropriate management of the fisheries resource and promotion of approaches
and technologies that would increase fish and shrimp production in a sustainable manner. Giving
beneficiaries longer term, instead of one-year, leases of water bodies would provide the incentive for
resource conservation. Mainstreaming of aquatic biodiversity concerns into the development of the
fisheries sector would also contribute to long-term sustainability.
Institutional sustainability. The sustainability of community-based fisheries management as an
institution is less certain. Concerted efforts by those opposed to the principles of user control over
resources can undermine even the best planned attempts to set up community-based management
institutions. In some areas or even specific communities, the social and political context may prove
unconducive to developing this type of management approach. Thorough identification of potential sites,
involving local NGOs and looking carefully at both the technical aspects and the social feasibility of
community-based management, would help to minimize these risks. Careful assessment of NGO
capacity to deal with opposition would also play a role. GOB's commitment to long-term leases of water
bodies to the communities would constitute a basic precondition for initiating the community-based
management process. Institutional sustainability would be strengthened by the significant involvement of
NGOs in assisting the communities in organizing themselves to implement and operate the project, and
by GOB's commitment to beneficiary participation and agreement to lease water bodies to the
communities for a period of seven years. The project would nurture broad-based support among major
stakeholders (GOB, communities, private sector, and NGOs).
Financial sustainability. The likelihood that the project would be financially sustainable after the close
of the credit is substantial. All components have high financial rates of return and positive net present
values. Most O&M responsibilities would be borne by the beneficiaries. The net benefits accruing to the
beneficiaries (after allowing for O&M costs) are on the order of Taka 79,310 lakh (Annex 4A, Table 11).
The fishing families in the project area stand to gain significantly as the project is designed to increase
fish production and train fishermen regarding better fishing methods, which together will significantly
improve the yields. Although most of the O&M responsibilities would fall on the beneficiaries, GOB
would still be expected to carry out periodic maintenance and major repairs in the case of shrimp
infrastructure, fish passes and water regulators and pay for incremental staff and logistics.



29
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  GOB maintains a policy and institutional         S        The project would nurture broad-based support
framework that is conducive to community-                among the major stakeholders (GOB,
based management of inland open-water                    conmmunities, private sector, and NGOs).
fisheries and community-based coastal shrimp
culture
*  Changes in beneficiaries' attitudes take place to  S      Giving beneficiaries longer term instead of one
move from resource depleting to resource                 year leases of water bodies would provide the
conserving behaviors                                     incentive for resource conservation.
*  Consensus on appropriate institutional           M        The social context within which technical
arrangements and technical interventions                 interventions are applied is less certain but the
achievable.                                              project will work with an experienced NGO in
this area to ascertain social feasibility.
*  Socially acceptable and technically viable        S       While technical options exist, their suitability
methods for improving the sustainability of              and accessibility for poor fry collectors is less
small-scale shrimp fry collection can be                 certain. Care will be taken to identify improved
identified.                                              methods that are accessible to poor fry
collectors
*  Excessively prolonged or repetitive floods, or   M        Management strategies mitigate the effects of
major disease outbreak do not seriously                  floods as far as possible. Other work is in hand
constrain aquaculture development.                      to improve regional cooperation on animal
health and quarantine to minimize disease risks.
Improved extensive production is promoted
which carries less risk with regard to disease.
*  Management and staff of DOF internalize          H        Organizational change within DOF in past has
change process                                           been elusive. Technical inputs of this project are
much more focused but institutional inertia will
remain a significant risk. Project design,
emphasizing community empowerment and use
of NGOs, would minimize effects of slower
than desirable DOF reform.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  Community-based management of inland              S       NGOs would assist the beneficiaries to form
fisheries development is sustainable                     groups to manage the resource and to stand up
to the more powerful segments of the
community.
*  Smallholder shrimp development is socially and    S       Group formation supported by NGOs;
environmentally sustainable; no major shrimp             Promotion of improved traditional rather than
disease outbreak                                         intensive shrimp farming, use of existing canals
to return the ecological condition closer to that
which existed prior to embankment
construction, extension services on how to deal
with shrimp disease outbreaks, conservation of
wild seed and larvae, and promotion of
hatcheries for fry production.



30
Risk                    Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
*  More productive/higher yielding aquaculture  M      Promoting aquaculture technologies that the
technologies adopted                               intended beneficiaries can afford.
.  Management and staff of DOF internalize     S       Involvement of community groups in all stages
change process                                     of the project would make it difficult for DOF to
renege on its comnunitment to developing
partnerships with beneficiaries, private sector
and NGOs.
Coverall Risk Rating                        S       _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
It is a fact that the predominant current methods of shrimp culture in Bangladesh contribute to social and
environmental problems in the shrimp farming areas. The purpose of the shrimp component is to
demonstrate on a small-scale alternative methods of shrimp culture, carried out by smallholders with a
vested interest in preserving their land, and using more environmentally friendly techniques. The impact
would be expected to be positive. Also, the concerned NGOs have been involved in the discussions
during project preparation, and NGOs would be used in organizing and training the community
participants. In spite of all this, opposition to shrimp farming is likely to continue to be strong in some
quarters. It is therefore important that the design, and implementation of subprojects in this component
be done in a fully participatory and transparent manner. DOF would also need to be proactive in sharing
information with all key stakeholders. Another possible controversial aspect relates to a conceivable
negative impact of floodplain stock enhancement on biodiversity and genetic diversity. Experience from
TFP shows that fingerling stocking is technically viable. Studies of floodplains stocked in TFP showed
improved performance of non-stocked species, presumably resulting from improved floodplain
management following stocking. Only indigenous species would be stocked during the initial years to
minimize the potential adverse impacts that exotic species might cause to the country's aquatic ecology.
A review of existing information on the impact of exotic aquatic species on open-water
ecosystems/habitats would be supported by the project. Should the findings of this review show that the
impact of stocked exotic species is negligible, the use of these exotic species in later years of the
floodplain stocking program would be considered.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* All actions precedent to the effectiveness of DFID Grant Agreement would have to be fulfilled for
IDA to declare the Development Credit Agreement and the GEF Grant Agreement effective.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Board Presentation
GOB has approved two Project Proformas, one for DOF and LGED and the other for BWDB, which
was a condition for Board presentation.
Implementation
*  Ministry of Land (MOL) would transfer management ofjalmohals in selected floodplains under the
project to DOF for a period of seven years. DOF would, in turn, transfer the management of fisheries
to fishing communities for the same length of time;



31
*  MOL to transfer fisheries management of selected rivers, channels, and beels for fish habitat
restoration to DOF for seven years. DOF would in turn put the habitats under community-based
management, also for a period of seven years;
*  MOL to permanently not renew leases in polders taken up for shrimp development under the project.
The project would only work in polders where leases have expired and are not renewed;
*  Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) to permit construction of fish passes and modification to
selected existing sluice gates on existing embankments to make them more suitable for fish
migration;
*  MOWR would allow borrow pits developed under the project to be leased through DOF to groups of
poor fishing families for a period of seven years;
*  GOB would ensure that any civil works, other than DOF facilities, would be preceded by agreement
with the community involving them in the design concepts, site selection, general supervision of
implementation work, and operation and maintenance;
*  GOB would implement a system satisfactory to IDA and DFID for channeling funds required for
carrying out the project;
*  GOB would ensure that beneficiaries under the stocking program pay gear-based fishing licensing
fees sufficient to cover DOF lease payment to MOI, forjalmohals in the floodplains transferred to
DOF and that the beneficiaries contribute their share of fingerling stocking according to agreed
percentages;
*  GOB would ensure that beneficiaries of the fish passes/fish-friendly regulators and fish habitat
restoration programs pay gear-based fishing licensing fees sufficient to cover estimated average
annual operations and maintenance of the facilities;
*  Stocking of the floodplains would be with indigenous species only unless the results of planned
studies under the project demonstrate that the use of exotic species is not harmful to biodiversity;
*  GOB would ensure that a full feasibility study, including economic, financial, technical, social,
environmental, and community organizational aspects is carried out before commencing civil works
in the shrimp component of the project;
*  Fish Seed Multiplication Farms to be rehabilitated under the Project would only be used for the
purposes of developing improved brood stock of the major fishes artificially propagated in the
country and not for seed multiplication for commercial purposes;
*  A joint project mid-term review would be carried out by GOB, IDA, and DFID no later than two
years from the date project effectiveness. DOF, in consultation with other implementing agencies,
IDA, GEF, and DFID, would prepare in advance a working paper to facilitate the review;
*  Project Management Unit would monitor and evaluate implementation of the project in accordance
with agreed performance monitoring indicators.



32
Management
*  GOB would ensure that the Project Management Unit is adequately staffed during project
implementation, and would consult IDA and DFID prior to replacing any of its key staff;
*  GOB would maintain until completion of the project a Project Steering Committee comprising NGO,
private sector, and public sector representatives under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Ministry of
Fisheries and Livestock, to guide the project during implementation;
*  For the purpose of assisting in carrying out inland open-water fisheries management and coastal
shrimp aquaculture components of the project, NGOs would be selected in accordance with
procedures and criteria agreed with IDA and DFID;
*  Project Management Unit would maintain a computerized financial management, accounting,
disbursement, and reporting system for the project within one year from date of project effectiveness;
Reporting
*  Project Management Unit would maintain policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators outlined in Annex 1, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
*  Project Management Unit would prepare quarterly progress reports to be submitted to IDA and DFID
no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter for the preceding period.
Audits
*  Project Financial Systems would be audited annually in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to IDA. Annual audit reports would be submitted to IDA and DFID no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year;
*  A private firm acceptable to IDA and DFID would be used to conduct performance audit of the
project including verification of procurement documentation and review of the financial management
system. Such audit would be carried out before the mid-term review of the project and after the
fourth year of project implementation. The first auditor would be appointed by March 31, 2001 while
the second auditor would be appointed by June 30, 2003 to carry out performance audit by September
30, 2001 and December 31, 2003, respectively; and
Involuntary Resettlement
* There would be no involuntary resettlement under the project, but there would be acquisition of about
20 ha of non-homestead land. Such land acquisition would follow procedures and guidelines set out
in the agreed social framework which has been included in the PIP. All land acquisition proposals
would be consistent with GOB provisions and would be agreed with IDA in light of the Bank's OD
4.20 and OD 4.30.



33
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ The engineering design documents for the first year' s activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[ x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Team Leader: Robert Epworth
Sector Ma ager: Rwan Ali
A.(Country Director: Frederick Thomas Temple



34
Annex 1
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                     Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring and Evaluation         Critical Asumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Increase in crop, fisheries, and livestock     Periodic agricultural census data from    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty alleviation through  production                                     Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics; Annual   Benefits from agricultural
accelerated agricultural                                                    production data collected by the          growth and rural development
growth and rural development  Increase in employment opportunities in the rural  Departments of Agriculture, Fisheries,  contribute to poverty
areas                                         and Livestock; and Project Monitoring      alleviation.
and Evaluation (M&E) Reports
Project Development                                                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To support sustainable and    1. Production of fish from floodplains targeted  Baseline reports, Independent livelihood  Benefits of increased
equitable growth in the      by project increased by 100% by project end    monitoring.                               production reach the target
benefits generated from                                                                                               groups
increased fish and shrimp
production
2. Production of shrimp from shrimp polders    Baseline production surveys;
targeted by project increased by 20% by project   Production monitoring by project and
end                                           resource-users; Independent monitoring
by national NGO; Quarterly Progress and
3. Production from aquaculture increased by 50%   supervision reports Evaluation (mid-term
in target communities of 200 thanas by project    and final) reports.
end.
4. By end of project at least 80% of project
benefits resulting from increased production will
accrue to beneficiaries from moderately and
extremely poor categories'.
5. Forum for representing user-group
management institutions in project oversight
and decision-making established by year I and
sustained.
Outputs:                                                                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
I. Sustainable and equitable    1.1 40 beel/floodplain, 5 water regulator, 8 fish    1.1 Quarterly Progress Reports; M&E  GOB maintains a policy and
community-based systems of   pass, and 50 fish sanctuary management         Reports; Supervision Mission Reports;     institutional framework that: is
managing and enhancing       committees established through a participatory  Evaluation Mission Reports (Mid-term      conducive to community-
inland open-water fisheries  process by project end and sustained beyond    and Final), Ex-post evaluation.           based management of inlan J
established and operational.    project completion.                                                                    open-water fisheries
1.2. A total of (i) 60,000 ha of floodplains   1.2 Quarterly Progress Reports; M&E      NGOs with capacity to
stocked with fingerlings each year, (ii) 8 fish  Reports; Supervision Mission Reports;   support community
passes constructed and 5 fish-friendly regulators   Evaluation Mission Reports (Mid-term  management can be identified
installed, (iii) 10 fish habitats rehabilitated and  and Final);Baseline production surveys;
(iv) 50 fish sanctuaries established by the end of   Production monitoring by project and
project.                                      resource-users; Independent monitoring
by national NGO; Ex-post evaluation and
impact assessment
2. Institutional arrangements   2.1 Feasibility studies completed for 4 TFP  2.1 Feasibility study report; Quarterly  *    Feasibility studies ablr
for sustainable and equitable   polders by year I and I additional polder by  Progress Reports                        to identify appropriate
management and               year 3.                                                                                  interventions for 3 TFP
development of shrimp                                                                                                 polders and I additional
polders established and                                                                                               polder
operational
Indicators based on a combination of daily calorific intake; land ownership; per capita annual income; and food deficit status.



35
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring and Evaluation         Critical Asumptions
2.2 Plan for institutional arrangements and  2.2 Plan document; Documentation of      *   Consensus on
technical interventions prepared and agreed by  agreements between stakeholders and    appropriate institutional
all stakeholders by year 2 in 3 TFP polders  project                                   arrangements and technical
and by year 4 in I additional polder                                                  interventions achievable
2.3 Total of 50 Block/polder management      2.3 As above                             *   GOB maintains a
committees established in 3 TFP polders by year                                        policy and institutional
2 of project and in I additional polder by year 3                                      framework that is
conducive to community-
based management of
coastal shrimp culture
2.4 219 Regulators / sluices constructed/    2.4 Quarterly Progress Reports; M&E
rehabilitated, 363 km canal excavated, 35 jetties   Reports; Supervision Mission Reports;
/ stair constructed / rehabilitated, 9 landing  Evaluation Mission Reports (Mid-term
platform constructed / rehabilitated and 860 km  and Final);Baseline production surveys
afforestation by project end.
2.5 Number of smallholders directly involved and  2.5 Quarterly Progress Reports; M & E
receiving benefits from shrimp production in  reports; Mid-term review and final
polders increased by 30% by project end      evaluation; Independent monitoring by
national NGO
3. Environmental             3.1 Sustainable methods of shrimp fry        3.1 Quarterly Progress Reports; M & E    Socially acceptable and
sustainability of shrimp    collection developed and adopted by at least  reports; Mid-term review and final       technically viable methods
fry collection increased    35% of targeted fry collectors by year 3      evaluation; Adoption surveys             for improving the
sustainability of small-scale
shrimp fry collection can
be identified
3.2 Appropriate institutional arrangements for  3.2 Quarterly Progress Reports; M & E
participation by shrimp fry collectors in decision-  reports; Mid-term review and final
making established by year 1.                evaluation; Independent monitoring by
national NGO.
3.3 Training program for shrimp fry collectors  3.3 As above
developed and implemented by project reaching:
10,000 fry collectors by Year 2; 20,000 by Year
3; 30,000 by Year 4. At least 75% of all fry
traders trained will be women.
3.4 Linkages between fry collectors          3.4 As above
institutions and support services established
and utilized by year 2
4. A national aquaculture    4.1 Extension strategy developed,            4.1 Strategy document; Quarterly         Approval of national
extension strategy          documented and approved by end of year 3      Progress Reports;                        aquaculture extension
developed, approved,                                                                                               strategy forthcoming by
coordinated and                                                                                                    MOFLIDOF
implemented
4.2 Framework for aquaculture support network   4.2 Quarterly Progress Reports; M&E   Relevant agencies involved
prepared for 200 thanas by year 2            Reports; Supervision Mission Reports;    in aquaculture willing to co-
Evaluation Mission Reports (Mid-term    operate.
and Final);
4.3 Co-ordinated aquaculture extension       4.3 As above plus ex-post evaluation and  Excessively prolonged or
programmes involving network members         impact assessment                        repetitive floods or major
developed, resourced and implemented in 50                                            disease outbreak do not
thanas by end of year 3 and a further 150 thanas                                      seriously constrain
by end of year 5 and sustained beyond project                                         aquaculture development.
life.



36
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Asumptions
4.4 35% adoption of improved aquaculture    4.4 Baseline production surveys;
technology in 670 ha of ponds in 200 thanas  Production monitoring by project and
increasing productivity to 3 tonnes per ha by end  resource-users; Ex-post evaluation and
of project.                                impact assessment
4.5 At least 25% of project participants in  4.5 Project monitoring reports.
pond aquaculture development will be
women.
5. Understanding of        5.1 Studies completed and documented by      5.1 6' 5-year plan; relevant fisheries  Policy and planning
aquatic resource and       year 3 of project                           policy and planning documents; Quarterly  recommendations based on
biodiversity conservation                                              Progress Reports; M&E Reports;         studies receive political
improved.                                                              Supervision Mission Reports; Evaluation   support
Mission Reports (Mid-term and Final)
5.2 Action plans to mainstream biodiversity  5.2 Same as in 1I.1
conservation into fisheries sector completed
6. Socially and            6.1 Relevant studies completed and           6.1 Plan documentation; Quarterly     Stakeholders agree to
ecologically sound hilsa   documented by year I                        Progress Reports; M&E Reports;         management plan.
management plan                                                        Supervision Mission Reports; Evaluation
developed and                                                          Mission Reports (Mid-term and Final);
implemented
6.2 Hilsa management plan completed, discussed  6.2 Documentation of agreements with
with stakeholders, approved and resourced by  stakeholders; Quarterly Progress Reports;
year 2                                      M&E Reports; Supervision Mission
Reports; Evaluation Mission Reports
(Mid-term and Final)
6.3 Hilsa management plan implemented by year  6.3 As above                       Sufficient resources available
2                                                                                 for plan implementation
7. Capacity of DOF to      7.1 Action Plan for the implementation of the  7.1 Quarterly Progress Reports; M&E  Management and staff of
manage and support the     National Fisheries Policy completed and     Reports; Supervision Mission Reports;  DOF intemalize change
sector and implement       documented by year I                        Evaluation Mission Reports (Mid-term   process
National Fisheries Policy                                              and Final)
strengthened
7.2 Assessment of organisational and human  7.2 As above.
resource capacity and needs of DOF completed
by year 1
7.3 Plan for organisational and human resource    7.3 Plan documentation; As above.
development prepared and approved by year 2
and implemented by year 3.
7.4 Strategy and program for post-project   7.4 Strategy and program
development of the fisheries sector prepared and   documentation; as above.
approved by end of project



37
Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicator                  Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Components (see Annex 2     Inputs: (budget for each component)                                                  (Cornponents to Outputs)
for project description)
1. Inland Open-water        1. US$17.1 million                            Quarterly Progress and Disbursement    *  Access to and control of
Fisheries Management                                                      Reports                                    water bodies is assured
1.1 Community-based         1. I US$ 7.9 million                                                                 *  No unusual drought/flood
Stock Enhancement                                                                                                   or outbreaks of disease
1.2 Pilot Fish              1.2 US$ 4.6 million
Passes/Water Regulatory
Structures
1.3 Fish Habitat            1.3 US$2.3 million
Restoration
1.4 Pilot Aquatic           1.4 US$ 2.3 million
Sanctuaries
2. Coastal Shrimp           2. US$8.5 million                             Quarterly Progress and Disbursement
Aquaculture                                                               Reports
2.1 Completion of           2.1 US$4.8 million                                                                    *  Canals in polders are free
Polders under Third                                                                                                  of leases
Fisheries Project
2.2 Development of New      2.2 US$3.4 million
Polder
3 Shrimp Fry Collectors     3 US$0.3 million                                                                         Consensus can be
achieved among
stakeholder on appropriate
interventions
4. Freshwater               4. US$5.7 million                             Quarterly Progress and Disbursement     *  Access to financial
Aquaculture Extension                                                     Reports                                    support are readily
available
5. Aquatic Resources        5. US$3.9 million                             Quarterly Progress and Disbursement     *  DOF maintains staffing
Policy Development                                                        Reports                                    strength for aquatic
biological and genetic
diversity assessments
after credit closes
5.1 Management of Hilsa     5.1 US$1.1 million                                                                    *  Ecologically sound and
Fisheries Areas                                                                                                      socially feasible
management interventions
can be identified
5.2 Aquatic Biological      5.2 US$2.5 million                                                                    *  Support from agencies
and Genetic Diversity                                                                                                concemed with
Assessments and Database                                                                                             enforcement is
forthcoming
5.3 Studies to Develop      5.3 US$0.3 million
Future Projects
6. Institutional Support    6. US$25.8 million                            Quarterly Progress and Disbursement     *  Appropriate and efficient
Reports                                    manpower made available
for PMU
6.1 Project Management      6.1 US$1.0 million                                                                    *  Timely recruitment of
Unit                                                                                                                 appropriate consultants
6.2 National and            6.2 US$10.6 million
Expatriate Consultants
(Monitoring and
Evaluation)
6.3 Transport, Machinery    6.3 US$7 1 million
and Equipment
6.4 Training                6.4 US$1.4 million
6.5 DOF District Offices    6.5 US$1.1 million
6.6 Flood                   6.6 US$ 4.7 million
Rehabilitation/Genetic
Managment                                                                                  _



38
Annex 2
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Inland Open-Water Fisheries Management US$17.1 million (to be funded as
follows: IDA US$8.2million; GEF US$1.3 million; DFID US$3.6 million; GOB US$ 1.0 million; and
Beneficiaries US$ 3.0 million)
The open-water fisheries management component would attempt to address the problems facing open-
water inland fisheries through different management measures consisting of stocking, habitat restoration,
establishment of fish sanctuaries, construction of fish passes or a combination of these options. The
unifying feature of these interventions would be the central role of resource-user communities in
determining the appropriateness of different management measures and the subsequent assumption of
respcnsibility for their management and, eventually, their costs by the resource-users who would benefit
from their implementation.
While choices regarding what management interventions are appropriate and how and where they should
be implemented must ultimately rest with the communities concerned, the project would aim to encourage
the implementation of a range of possible management interventions which past experience has suggested
may be applicable. The key interventions to be proposed are: floodplain fisheries stock enhancement;
aquatic habitat restoration- re-excavation of canals and beels; construction of fish passes/fish-friendly
regulators; and establishment of aquatic sanctuaries in a variety of ecosystems.
The objectives of this component would be to reduce poverty and improve local people's nutrition
through the sustainable development of open-water fisheries resources in an environmentally sound
manner. The communities would be directly involved in the design, site selection, management, and
monitoring of the investments and actions taken. The beneficiary communities would bear full costs of
operation and maintenance, the funds for which would be derived from a gear-based, fishing license
system that would be formulated with assistance from the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) with full participation of the receiving community in the design and
operation of one or more of the above actions. The charges under the gear-based licensing system would
be set based on two components, reimbursement of DOF lease payment to Ministry of Land (MOL) and
estimated average annual operations and maintenance costs (O&M), respectively. The first one would be
paid to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and the second would be deposited into an account that
would be owned and managed by the community to cover annual O&M costs. These payments would be
made via direct bank deposits to a GOB account and a community-managed account, respectively.
Copies of the deposit slips into these two accounts would be provided to the Thana Fishery Officer for
issuance of individual fishing licenses, which would be floodplain-specific. In addition to the fish
production monitoring of stocked and non-stocked species that would be conducted in each floodplain
developed by the project, at least one representative floodplain in each Division where the project would
be implemented and not receiving assistance for open-water fisheries development would similarly be
monitored as control areas. The participation of the community would aid DOF in ensuring that the
provisions of the Fish Conservation Act are implemented in floodplains covered under the project.
Fisheries Stock Enhancement (US$7.9 million of which IDA US$3.0 million; DFID US$2.0 million;
GOB US$0.1 million; and Beneficiaries US$2.8 million). This sub-component would involve the
stocking of fingerlings of indigenous species in the floodplains, primarily comprised of hatchery-
produced rui (Labeo rohita), catla (Catla catla), and mrigal (Cirrhinus mrigala). The rationale for using
these indigenous species is that hatchery production of these species is feasible and well known in



39
Bangladesh, and it minimizes the potential adverse impacts that exotic species can cause to Bangladesh's
aquatic ecology. Though exotics have been deliberately and inadvertently released in Bangladesh in
previous years, the potential impacts of these introductions on indigenous species have not been
quantified; and, therefore, the strategy of stocking indigenous species would be followed to minimize
risks and preserve the country's aquatic ecology. A review of existing regional information on the
impact of exotic aquatic species on open-water ecosystems/habitats would be supported by the project.
Should the findings of this review show that the impact of stocked exotic species is negligible,
reconsideration would be given concerning the use of exotic fishes in the floodplain stocking program.
The objective would be to use stocking programs as catalysts for improved fisheries management in
floodplains with a water area of up to 3,000 ha and water depth of one meter or more at maximum flood.
Based upon experience with the Third Fisheries Project (TFP), this size floodplain can be managed by
one community. One larger floodplain, such as Boronal-Kola-Salimpur-Bashukhali (BKSB) or another,
which was assisted under TFP, would also be included as a pilot to test methods for sustainable multi-
community participation in management of a larger floodplain. The project would finance a maximum
stocking density of 10 kg/ha/year, approximately comprised in the first year of rui (40%), catla (40%),
and mrigal (20%). The stocking density would be determined through consultation with the receiving
community through the Floodplain Management Committee. It is assumed that the ratios may vary to
some degree from one floodplain to another and this would be adjusted based on catch/recovery statistics
on returns from stocking. (The data from some floodplains previously stocked under TFP was used in
setting the proposed initial-year stocking proportions.) The following criteria would be used in
determining the stocking density to assure sustainability of floodplain stocking: (a) the capacity of the
communities to share in the costs of stocking; and (b) the required quantity of stocked fingerlings can be
procured relatively close to the stocked floodplain, which would further reduce stress and mortality
during and after transport. The procurement of fingerlings would be done by the communities through
the Bank's national shopping method. The objective of these criteria is to permit quick (within four
years) transfer of control and responsibility of the stocking program to the communities managing the
fisheries.
In addition to the maximum of 3,000 ha floodplain area with a water depth of one meter or more, the
following criteria would also be required for selected floodplains: (a) the effective water area would
have a depth of 1 m or more for a duration of about 120 days, following an area, depth, and duration
analysis of each floodplain by a capable agency (e.g. EGIS, SWMC, etc.) in Bangladesh; (b) the water
quality and nutrient richness should be suitable for optimal fish growth; (c) easy accessibility by road or
boat for stocking and marketing; (d) the local fishing community is interested to participate in the
program, willingness to establish a representative Floodplain Management Committee, and contribute to
the stocking costs per the project guidelines; (e) absence of internal or external social conflicts that
cannot be resolved and would adversely affect the stocking program; and (f) presence of an interested
NGO that meets the project's selection criteria.
The proposed IDA credit would finance up to 90% of the stocking costs in the first year of the operation
of a specific floodplain, 60% the second year, and 30% the third year, with the balance financed by the
communities. Communities would finance 100% of the stocking costs from the fourth year of operation
onwards. It is expected that a majority of the fingerlings would be procured in the vicinity of the
floodplain stocked. The members of the fishing communities responsible for fisheries management in the
beels would be encouraged to participate in fingerling production. The fingerling stocking densities may
also be increased if the communities decide to do so during or after the project, but the proportion of
financing noted above would be based on a maximum of 10 kg/ha/year, if the amount actually stocked is
above the 10 kg/ha/year target. All floodplains to be taken up under the project should be initiated in the
first three years of the project to allow for the financing plan noted above to be completed during the five-
year project period. It is estimated that 24,000 ha would be stocked in the second year and 36,000 ha



40
would be stocked in the third year for a total of 60,000 ha under the project. The first year's floodplains
would largely be derived from those areas stocked under TFP, where at least one year's monitored data of
fish catch would be available from prior years' fisheries assessments of these areas. An NGO would be
recruited to work with each community involved in the first year's stocking for at least 6 months in
advance of the stocking date. For new floodplains, a full year's monitoring and NGO assistance would
need to be conducted and provided, respectively, in advance of stocking.
Habitat Restoration (US$2.3 million of which IDA US$1.8 million; DFID US$0.2 million; GOB
US$0.3 million). As a floodplain delta of the Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Meghna rivers,
Bangladesh has one of the world's richest and most diverse inland aquaculture environments, supporting
a varliety of living aquatic resources. Fish migration and recruitment in natural water depend on good
ecological condition, but in recent years, for both natural and man-made reasons, the environment has
been seriously degraded, one of the major consequences being the siltation of rivers and canals. Canals
are a crucial element in interconnecting the open-water network and maintaining the migration of fish for
breeding in the floodplains. Due to siltation, many formerly perennial canals and tributaries now flow
only seasonally, and without these connections, stocks and production and species diversity will
eventually decline.
The objective of this component is to increase productivity and biodiversity by reopening important
routes by which riverine fish reach floodplains to breed and graze. The component would include up to
10 pilot habitat restoration sub-projects for more effective fish migration through them. In addition to
technical considerations, for instance, giving priority to the routes with productive fisheries yields over
the largest area, criteria for the selection of the sites would include the willingness of communities to
participate in construction, management and maintenance. Attempts would also be made to minimize
potential conflicts between farmers and fishermen.
As in the case of floodplain stocking, an NGO would be required to be present in the area to establish if
there is community support for and willingness to participate in the activity. Similar arrangements would
be made to these sub-projects, as noted above for fisheries stock enhancement, in that the beneficiaries
would agree to take responsibility through community management of the 0 & M of the habitats restored,
including payment of the 0 & M costs via inclusion in the fishing license fees. Some adjustments may
need to be made, on a case-by-case basis, in cases where beneficiaries are dispersed or difficult to identify.
Where communities, in consultation with the project, opt for habitat restoration, the Local Govemment
Engineering Department (LGED) would be responsible for implementing the civil engineering works of
this component. DOF, together with consultants and LGED, has narrowed the number of potential sites
from the original list of 125 to 15. The 10 sites would be selected from this short list. However, there is
a need to be flexible. In the course of detailed design exercise, there may be a need to drop some of the
sites in the short list.
Construction of Fish Passes/Friendly Regulators US$4.6 million of which IDA US$3.4 million;
DFID US$0.6 million; GOB US$0.6 million). In order to increase foodgrain production, many flood
control, drainage and irrigation (FCDI) projects have been implemented in the country. These projects
were implemented without assessing their impact on fisheries. Some of the projects have blocked fish
migration routes. The inclusion of properly designed fish passes to allow passage of fish through FCDI
embankments and water regulators is one way of resolving this problem. A pilot program to establish a
fish pass in FCDI project was taken in the Flood Action Plan. This limited experience has demonstrated
that fish pass construction is economically viable and socially acceptable if potential conflicts among
resource users are adequately addressed.



41
This component would aim to extend the experience of this pilot and restore some of the former
migration routes between selected rivers and protected floodplains by constructing up to eight pilot fish-
passes. Twelve possible FCD/I schemes where fish passes would be technically and socially feasible have
already been identified and sites would be provisionally selected from this list. Where feasible, improving
the management and structure of existing water regulators to allow fish to migrate freely would also be
considered. Up to five selected water regulator structures would be modified with fish-friendly sluices.
Eight possible schemes for this work have also been identified. If successful, solutions of this kind could
be replicated in over 500 sites around the country in the future.
The site selection for fish passes and regulators would have to take into account the feasibility of
establishing workable management mechanisms. These would have to mediate between the varied, and
often conflicting, interests of different water user groups within the command area. Special consideration
would be given to mitigation measures prepared under the Second Small-Scale Drainage and Irrigation
Project and Northeast Regional Study (FAP 6). As in the open-water fisheries component of the project,
NGOs would be called upon to work with communities in analyzing options for the water management
mechanisms and establishing appropriate committees. Beneficiaries would be expected to pay any
operation and maintenance costs involved such as for operation, removing weeds from the channels and
restoring fish habitats in channels. This could be done through licensing arrangements for fisheries or
other appropriate mechanisms identified in conjunction with resource-users and other stakeholders.
BWDB Guidelines for Peoples' Participation would be followed in setting up these water management
mechanisms but some adjustments may need to be made, on a case-by-case basis.
The project will also employ one biologist per pass to be responsible for monitoring impact. The office
accommodation of the biologist would be in local BWIDB office. After the project period, this
responsibility would be handed over to the local TFO.
Implementation of the civil works involved would be by the BWDB.
Aquatic Sanctuaries (US$2.3 million of which GEF US$1.36 million; DFID US$0.8 million;
Beneficiaries 0.2 million). The entire Ganges/Brahmaputra floodplain, which accounts for half of the
land area of Bangladesh, is a wetland of international importance . Within this area, 50 semi-permanent
freshwater systems have been identified as being particularly significant but, due to their hydrological
dependence on surrounding areas they cannot be viewed as independent habitats for conservation
purposes. In any event, population pressures and the associated need for food and fiber are so intense
throughout the delta, that it is neither practical nor feasible to manage these areas as totally protected
areas. In this context, the only feasible option for protecting biodiversity values is to try and mainstream
aquatic biodiversity conservation within the day to day activities of the fisheries and related sectors. The
Bangladesh Conservation Strategy (1992) endorses this approach, contemplating a series of activities to
protect ecosystem integrity and biodiversity conservation at a variety of levels; policy, zoning, water
resources management, fisheries management and targeted research. One element of the strategy is to
promote establishment of aquatic sanctuaries to conserve fish stocks, preserve biodiversity and increase
fish production. The benefits of such sanctuaries accrue locally, through the preservation of breeding
stock for commercial species, and globally, through the preservation of breeding stock subsidiary species.
They have the added attraction that, as a form of fisheries management, they are relatively easy for
communities to implement and enforce
Under this component, up to 50 pilot-scale community-managed aquatic sanctuaries would be established
by the project in small rivers and channels with flowing waters and in areas where fishing rights are not
6 Of which US$0.7 million is for monitoring floodplain fisheries productivity, genetic diversity, and biodiversity in
project areas. In addition to project-specific monitoring, this activity would include independent basic biological
charaterization and monitoring of aquatic biodiversity in all project areas.



42
leased. IDA funds will be used to cover baseline costs and GEF funds will be used to finance incremental
activities required to broaden the scope of protection provided including: exclusion of all extractive
activities in the sanctuaries; enforcing restrictions on hunting; increasing community awareness; and,
independent biodiversity monitoring.
Following the process identified for the entire open-water fisheries component, local resource-users
would be involved from the start in identifying appropriate sites and mechanisms for managing them.
Actual sites would be selected once the Project Management Unit (PMU) and consultant teams are in
place. Selection criteria would include community interest, ecological considerations (global biodiversity
importance), geographical and ecological representation, etc. The strategy would follow experience
gained under a pilot project assisted by the International Centre for Living Aquatic Resources
Management (ICLARM) which reduces the prospect of potential social conflicts by delineating the
sanctuary in only a portion (around 50 ha) of the fished area as a place for the natural spawning and
nurturing of fishes. This should ease the difficulties of restricting fishing by regulation and of finding
alternative livelihoods for the people affected in the reserved area. Protection would be organized and
provided on a voluntary basis by local fishermen.
The declared sites for aquatic sanctuary would be demarcated. Baseline surveys of the sanctuary areas
would be undertaken in the first year of the project while NGOs work with communities to prepare
appropriate mechanisms for managing the sanctuaries. Sanctuary Management Committees (SMC) at
each site have been shown by the CBFMP to be successful mechanisms where they are comprised of
elected community members. The SMC would be supported by the NGO involved, the DOF and
consultants. Final selection of appropriate sites would be based upon the communities' agreement to
establish and manage the sanctuaries and observe the restrictions on fishing required to make them
effective.
Re-stlocking of the sanctuaries along the lines of the floodplain restocking component would represent a
further option for communities electing to develop aquatic sanctuaries. Species composition and stocking
densities would be determined after reviewing the relevant previous studies and the results of the baseline
studies, but for costing purposes, a stocking rate of 2 kg/ha/year of the same species as in the floodplain
stocking component is assumed. In cases where communities do take up this option, costs would be
recovered progressively using the same system described above for floodplain stocking. Any associated
licencing arrangements would aim to cover the costs of DOF leasing from MOL.
Project Component 2 - Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture US$8.5 million (to be funded as follows: IDA
US$6.3 million; GEF US$0.1 million; DFID US$0.7 million; GOB US$1.5 million)
The contribution of coastal aquaculture, and particularly shrimp culture, to both the local and national
economies is very significant. The sub-sector not only generates important export earnings but has also
created a new source of employment and income in coastal areas, which have traditionally been among
the most marginal and impoverished in the country. The Shrimp and Coastal Aquaculture component
would aim to address some of the environmental and social issues facing this rapidly developing sub-
sector and which undermine its sustainability.
Unplanned development of shrimp culture has had negative environmental impacts in terms of water
quality, disease, mangrove deforestation and the degradation of agricultural land. In particular, the
practice of alternating shrimp culture and rice farming has often been upset by more intensive use of land
areas for shrimp. The combination of seasonal shrimp culture and rice farming would be possible and
sustainable but requires better water management. Potentially destructive methods of shrimp fry
collection, on which the sub-sector depends, also have significant environmental implications.



43
Social problems have arisen where larger investors in shrimp farming, often from outside the local
community, attempt to enforce their own priorities for rnanagement on local farmers. Land for shrimp
culture has, on occasions, been expropriated by larger investors at the expense of small landowners. This
has led to smallholders either being excluded from shrimp farming or being unable to practice mixed
shrimp and rice farming.
Appropriate infrastructure combined with adequate management mechanisms can resolve some of these
conflicts and reduce negative environmental impacts. Past efforts to do this have often been marred by
poor design and construction and a failure to take social and institutional aspects into consideration. The
involvement of local resource-users at all stages, both in designing appropriate structures and managing
them is critical if the concerns and priorities of all stakeholders are to be accommodated.
The Shrimp and Coastal Aquaculture component would therefore consist of two sub-components: Polder
Development and Management and Training of Shrimp Fry Collectors.
Polder Development and Management (US$8.3 million of which IDA US$6.1 million; DFID US$0.7
million; GOB US$1.5 million). The Third Fisheries Project initiated work on developing 4 polders in the
coastal region of Khulna where smallholders could control the entrance of brackishwater allowing them
to carry out both extensive shrimp culture and rice farming at different times of the year. Block
Committees were set up as mechanisms for the management of structures and the representation of local
users in decision-making. TFP experience showed that there is a need to involve stakeholders in the
design, general supervision and management of water control structures. Further, for the water
management structures to be fully operational, canals within polders should not be leased out.
The involvement of NGOs, brought in to mediate in conflicts between user groups and address the issues
raised, has increased success in resolving problems and helping smallholders manage their shrimp
farming activities effectively.
There is potential to improve the productivity of these smallholder farmers, and increase both their
earnings from shrimp and agriculture, and their contribution to overall shrimp production, if these polder
structures are completed and their management further improved.
The shrimp and coastal aquaculture component would therefore aim, in the first place, to learn and build
on the experience of TFP in addressing the issue of smallholder shrimp production. NGOs with
appropriate experience would be called upon to help the project carry out a detailed appraisal of current
conditions in the four polders and one new polder. Thorough consultations with local stakeholders in
order to understand the issues and perceptions of different stakeholder groups would be used as a basis
for identifying future interventions in the area. Agreement must be reached with local people on
appropriate interventions to complete work on the polders and establish sustainable mechanisms for their
management so that the needs of all concerned groups can be accommodated. In addition, arrangements
for the permanent non-renewal of leases on canals within polders taken up for development under the
project must be made. The project would only work in polders where leases have expired and are not
renewed and confirmation on the existing lease situation in polders selected for the project must be
provided prior to project appraisal.
Following these agreements, a full feasibility study, covering engineering, aquaculture, socio-economic
and community organizational aspects would be carried out incorporating the results of consultations with
the community and looking in detail at the environmental and economic feasibility of proposed
interventions and the formal mechanisms required to ensure that smallholder farmers would be able to
benefit from them. This study would be carried out during the first year of the project and development



44
would start from the second year. BWDB has prepared preliminary cost estimates for additional
investment in engineering works, which would be validated during that study.
BW:DB would employ an engineering firm to handle the design of civil works, assist in evaluation of
bids, and supervise construction. The contractual arrangements, managed through an NGO, would ensure
community participation in design concepts and in general supervision to help assure appropriate design
and adequate quality of the works as described above.
BWIDB has made preliminary cost estimates of US$3.9 million for completing work on the four TFP
polders, and US$2.8 million for developing one new polder (in both cases, including a provision for
NGO and DOF costs).
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods (US$0.3 million of which IDA US$0.2 million;
GEF US$ 0.1 million). The shrimp culture industry in Bangladesh depends almost entirely on fry
collected from the wild. Because of the limited requirements in terms of skills and equipment needed for
fry collection, it has attracted the involvement of many poor people for whom it has come to represent
either an important supplement to their incomes or their sole source of livelihood. Many women and
children are known to be actively involved in fry collection. Unfortunately, despite the scarcity and high
price of the product, the catch methods used, inappropriate handling and poor transportation all result in
colossal wastage. The collection process also causes mortality of a large number of non-target aquatic
organisms leading to the destruction of other aquatic species and adverse effects on biodiversity in the
marine and estuarine environment. The potential long-term impacts of this activity, which is in constant
expansion to keep pace with growing demand from shrimp farmers, are therefore extremely serious.
Past extension efforts to deal with this problem have started to address the problem but the complexity of
the situation is clear. Means of reducing the mortality of shrimp fly and other non-target species do exist
but approaches to encouraging people to adopt them need to be developed. The poverty of many of the
people engaged in the activity means that tangible benefits from altemative methods are required if they
are t;o change their practice. Obvious alternatives for the large numbers of poor people if they were to
stop fry collection engaged are not available.
This component would encourage adoption of alternative fry-harvesting systems to reduce present
wastage and inadvertent impacts on non-target species. Clearly, some benefits accrue locally to the fry
collectors themselves and to the fishers they supply and the costs associated with achieving those limited
objectives will be financed by IDA (the techniques are already known). The GEF will fund the additional
work necessary to adapt the approach so as to maximize benefits to non-target species.
Any work with the fry collector community would have to be initiated by participatory appraisals of the
comrmunities involved to identify possible avenues for action to improve shrimp fry collection methods
and reduce the damaging effects of the trade. The intention would be to develop a training program for
shrimp fry collectors aiming to reduce wastage of both the fry resource and non-target organisms by
promoting improved collection, handling and transportation methods for the fry. This training program
would be developed in close consultation with concerned agencies working in the area and with
experience of the fry collector communities. Care would be taken to identify improved methods that are
accessible to poor fry collectors. Where additional expense or effort is required in the use of improved
methods, means of encouraging fry collectors to adopt them would need to be developed. These would be
discussed and identified in consultation with concerned agencies and the fry collectors themselves.
The incremental activities necessary to extend the benefits to cover non-target species include:
identification of the impacts of harvesting activities on the different life-stages of non-target species;
development of a conceptual model to quantify these impacts; development and pilot-testing of modified



45
procedures to reduce impacts on non-target species; and, incorporation of the results into the overall
training program.
The development of the training strategy (including the analytical work on non-target species), in
consultation with all stakeholders, would take up the first year of the project with a view to commencing
training activity in the second year. The expected target population for this training would up to 29,500
post-larvae collectors and 500 post-larvae and prawn fry traders. These would be trained and low cost
equipment developed for temporary storage of shrimp post-larvae at the collection centers and scientific
transportation of the post-larvae to the farming areas.
There is a potential saving of 617 million Bagda and Galda fry from reduced handling and transportation
mortality and 61,650 million non-target shrimp and fish fry saved from immediate mortality. If saved
and released into the river or sea, and only 1% mature and are caught, the potential incremental annual
output is over 2000 tons of fish per annum.
Project Component 3 - Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training US$5.7 million (to be
funded as follows: IDA US$4.3 million; GOB US$1.4 million)
This component would provide a significant opportunity for sustainably increasing fish production in
Bangladesh. Production can be increased in two ways: first by increasing the area of water currently
under culture and secondly by increasing productivity through improved pond management. The
component would assist with the development of a national aquaculture extension and training strategy to
develop consistent and co-ordinated approaches across the sector, which promote collaborative efforts
between DOF and other extension agencies in the fisheries sector. Direct efforts would adopt group
experiential learning approaches accessible to all pond farmers within targeted communities. Its
objective would be to increase fish supplies from aquaculture through intensified yields and increased
areas under production, to strengthen extension links by which newly researched technologies reach
farmers, and to improve management of fisheries at the thana level through greater co-operation between
DOF and the private sector.
The approach would be based on the village model, as used in the DFID-assisted Northwest Fisheries
Extension Project (NWFEP). The project would work in 30 districts, covering 200 thanas of 8,000
villages, over the life of the project. Districts would be selected where there are no similar ongoing
programs of other donors, and the extension models, and the extension package offered, would be
consistent with those used in other programs. Two hundred incremental extension staff are costed into the
project. Credit needs to support aquaculture development would be provided by NGOs. DOF, through
the project, would implement collaborative extension approaches that would enable training to reach
selected NGOs, schoolteachers, fry traders and Department of Agricultural Extension staff. Training
would be provided at the renovated Fisheries Training Centers (FTC) and Fish Seed Multiplication Farms
(FSMF) and at the new district offices.
A linkage would be established between the Fisheries Training & Extension Project (FTEP- DFID) &
FFP so that the trained manpower could be used properly. DOF manpower trained under FTEP would be
utilized in this project and newly recruited manpower would also be trained through FTEP.
The model would work as follows: The principal effort: would be in the first year in each village, starting
with an initial rally, followed by four group-training sessions and seven follow-up advisory visits. These
would be provided mainly by the full-time Extension Officer on contract in each thana, supported by
regular thana-level staff. In the second (and final) year, part-time support would be provided by the
regular staff only - say, two training and four advisory visits per village/group. Each Extension officer
would cover 10 new villages each year, making forty villages per thana over the project life (assuming 6



46
months set-up time, and allowing time for the follow-up year to take place in the last 10 villages). The
village/group is assumed to comprise an average of 25 farmers, of whom 35% would have adopted
improved practices by the second year. Further drop-outs in successive years are assumed to be balanced
out by new adopters. On this basis, a total of 70,000 farmers would benefit directly from the project.
The project would fund the cost of salaries and allowances for the Extension Officers, daily allowances
for participating regular staff, 2 motor-cycles per thana (one for regular staff) and the cost of running
rallies, training and advisory sessions. For the purposes of the economic appraisal, it is assumed that the
production model to be promoted would be "improved extensive," with fertilization but no feed.
Project Component 4 - Aquatic Resources Development, Management, and Conservation Studies
US$3.9 million (to be funded as follows: IDA US$0.8 million; GEF US$3.0 million; GOB US$0.1
million)
This component would assist in strengthening the basis for aquatic resources policy development.
Presently, DOF is a traditional fisheries department with a skills-mix reflecting this heritage; quite a
strong focus on the biology and ecology of commercially and artisanally exploited species but lacking the
knowledge base and technical capacity required to transform itself into an integrated manager of aquatic
ecosystems as a whole, which is what it must become if the global values of Bangladesh's wetland
resources are to be protected. This component is designed to provide DOF with the basic tools it needs
to make this transformation. The component would consist of five sub-components: Management of
Hilsa Fisheries Areas; Assessment of Ecosystem Integrity and Sustainability; Ecological Relations of
Exotic Species; Action Plans and Aquatic Database; and Studies to Develop Future Projects. Through
this and the following component, the project would support the establishment of a long-term foundation
for successful mainstreaming through institutional support, capacity building, ecological assessments, and
policy development.
Management of Hilsa Fishing Areas (US$1.1 million of which IDA US$0.5 million; GEF US$0.5
million, and GOB US$0.1 million). Hilsa is an important species of fish in Bangladesh, annual
production being 80,000 metric tons from the inland waters and 126,000 metric tons from the marine
waters, accounting for 16.5% of total national fish production. The hilsa fish life-cycle involves
migrating upstream from the sea for breeding in freshwater. Hilsa is exploited by intensive fishing of the
migrating adults during May to October, and during January to April each year in the estuaries and the
lower and upper reaches of the Meghna and Padma rivers. In the last forty years, changes in ecological
conditions have changed the migratory route, and during the peak breeding season, thousands of nets are
used to harvest this species. Annually around 3,707 metric tons of juvenile hilsa (known asjatka) are
being captured illegally by fishermen violating the Fish Act. A rough estimate is that if 10% of illegal
fishing were stopped, there would be an estimated extra production of 23,000 tons per year.
Since hilsa is the single most important source of fish in Bangladesh, measures for its sustainable
management and conservation are essential. There is already a case for the reduction in thejatka fishery
but other measures are almost certainly needed to safeguard the resource and obtain optimum yields. In
order to protect and conserve the hilsa stock, this sub-component would operate in two stages.
During the first year of the project, consultants would prepare a management plan which would outline
technical, legal and institutional activities that DOF and other parties involved would need to take to
sustain the fishery. The management plan would use accumulated data from DOF and FRI, particularly
from the Chandpur Station, together with a survey conducted within the project to ascertain the results of
recent changes as well as the current patterns of catch and effort. This survey would involve working
with fishing groups to assess catches and also monitoring selected landing centers, amongst which one of
the largest is Dhaka. From these sources of information a diagnosis of the status of the hilsa stocks



47
would be made along with the most likely future of the stocks. The study would characterize the life-
cycle of the hilsa and its associated biodiversity, as well as the economic and social dimensions of hilsa
exploitation. This information would be used to develop and implement a management plan for hilsa that
is biodiversity-friendly, including time-bound actions required to optimize yields and safeguard stocks.
The result of the study could lead to a regional initiative to conserve the hilsa in the Bay of Bengal. The
second stage of the sub-component would be to commence implementation of the management plan, for
which a provisional lump sum is included in the projecit budget.
Ecosystem Integrity and Sustainability (US$1.1 million of which GEF US$1.1 million); Ecological
Relations of Exotic Species (US$0.3 million of which GEF US$0.3 million); Action Plans and
Aquatic Database (US$1.1 million of which GEF US$1.1 million); and Studies to Develop Future
Projects (US$0.3 million of which IDA US$0.3 million). Despite the strong attention that the fisheries
sector has received in Bangladesh, the current information base is not adequate to make sound long-term
decisions regarding sustainable aquatic ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation. Therefore
comprehensive studies would be undertaken on ecological issues of national and global significance, and
policy recommendations would be developed. These studies would include assessments of baseline
conditions and data on aquatic biological and genetic diversity of selected inland and coastal ecosystems.
They would be designed to generate vital information and data which would be used for developing and
formulating future fisheries projects, ecosystem protection and conservation programs, and policy
recommendations and for mainstreaming aquatic conservation into the fisheries sector.
Key research and monitoring activities would be conducted to help scope the dimension and complexity
of these mainstreaming needs. These studies would also identify key linkages between the fisheries
sector and freshwater biodiversity conservation that would serve as a strong basis to develop future
fisheries projects. The studies would include:
*  Assessment of ecosystem integrity and sustainability within the context of large-scale water
projects. Emphasis would be on the relations between aquatic biodiversity conservation and
inter-connections between deepwater areas, baors, beels, and sanctuaries, (including
understanding the food webs) as well as additional biological and ecological information in
relation to the annual hydrological cycle. This sub-component would allow a full understanding
of the root causes of biodiversity loss and would serve as the foundation for developing policy
recommendations designed to mitigate these losses;
*  Formulation and testing of ecological management practices for Hilsa fishing areas. Current
fishing practices are indiscriminate and thought to be destructive to associated biodiversity.
Therefore, this activity would characterize the life-cycles of biodiversity associated with Hilsa
fisheries which are of important culture value in Bangladesh. This information would be used to
develop and implement a management plan for Hilsa that is biodiversity-friendly and which is
expected to be considered as an innovative and pilot initiative;
*  Monitoring of floodplain fisheries productivity and biodiversity in project-assisted areas. In
addition to project-specific monitoring, this component would include independent basic
biological characterization and monitoring of aquatic biodiversity in all project areas7; and
*  Dynamics of introduced exotic species and evaluation of impacts upon native biodiversity.
Previous fisheries projects introduced a variety of exotic species which are believed to have had a
negative impact upon native biodiversity. This study would scope and describe these impacts,
develop policy recommendations and plans as well as pilot actions for eradication if possible.
This activity would be funded under Component 1, Inland Open-water Fisheries Management.



48
Studies would also be undertaken to consider future opportunities for aquaculture and fisheries
development and to prepare project proposals for future consideration. This will look specifically at the
appropriateness of a sector investment approach to future development.
The results of these studies/assessments would be used to develop policy recommendations and prepare
strategic and technical action plans. An important tool to be used would be a freshwater biodiversity
database to integrate, monitor and manage existing information, plan future activities and prioritize areas
for action, assess dynamics and changes in freshwater ecosystems, evaluate and measure impacts of
human activities, etc. The information generated would be used to fine-tune project activities during the
life of the project, develop new policies, and serve as the basis for future fisheries projects preparation
and implementation.
Project Component 5 - Institutional Support: Manpower, Training and Equipment US$25.8 million
(to be funded as follows: IDA US$8.5 million; GEF US$0.6 million; DFID US$11.2 million; GOB
US$5.4 million)
This component would cover two forms of assistance to DOF -- activities that are directly necessary to
implement the project, and activities intended for the long term institutional strengthening of DOF.
Activities, which would support project implementation, include additional staff for the PMI, national
and intemational consultants to implement and monitor the impact of the project and essential transport,
machinery and equipment. Staffing for the PMU would be drawn, as far as possible from within the
executive branches of the DOF. Special attention would be paid to preventing the establishment of a
parallel unit within DOF but rather to integrate project implementation within the everyday functions of
the Department.
The project would also have a broader impact on the sector and on DOF organization. A National
Fisheries Policy, which provides direction for the sector, has recently been approved by Cabinet. DOF
now needs the capacity to translate the newly approved policy into action and to develop the necessary
execution plan. Toward this objective, the project would provide a consultant to assist with formulating
any specific organizational changes needed to implement the National Fisheries Policy. Additional
activities to support DOF would include training for DOF staff to strengthen its capacity to manage
fisheries development and provide adequate aquaculture extension; improved DOF office facilities in
districts covered by the project; and the rehabilitation of flood-damaged buildings, including Fish Seed
Multiplication Farms and Training Centers.
Project Management Unit (US$1.0 million of which IDA US$0.2 million; GOB US$0.8 million). The
project would have a number of components involving different agencies. The PMU at the national level
would co-ordinate the activities of different government agencies and NGOs. It would be headed by a
senior official of DOF with previous experience of implementing aided projects.
The staff required for the PMI at HQ and Divisional level would involve 86 posts, of which five would
be existing posts and a further 29 would be filled by serving officers on deputation. Costs for staff will be
shared between the GOB and IDA. GOB would pay the full costs of the existing posts, the salary costs of
the deputed officers, and a contribution (rising from 25% to 80%) of the balance of salaries and
allowances.
Consultants (US$10.6 million of which DFID US$10.5 million; ). National and international
consultants would be recruited in professional areas in which DOF lacks expertise and which are
particularly important for project success. These would include community management, fisheries socio-
economics, fisheries resource management, training and extension for freshwater and shrimp aquaculture,
monitoring and evaluation, financial management, institutional development, and training management.



49
The level of technical assistance (TA) requested by DOF was much higher. This level was reduced in the
course of project appraisal in consultation with DOF. DOF considers the reduced level of TA as the
minimum needed to carry out the Project. To ensure that DOF's dependence on TA is gradually reduced,
partnerships would be established between individual consultants and DOF officers who would both have
offices within the DOF headquarters building and through the training program that would be supported
by the project. Project activities would continue through the PMU while overall institutional capacity
building would be going on in parallel. A training specialist would be recruited who would work in
developing training programs with the other technical specialists for DOF staff and NGO staff who in
turn would train the project beneficiaries. Thus, the strategy is not only to build capacity in DOF, but
also in NGOs and in community-based organizations. In the long-term, the latter would be doing some of
the tasks that are currently being done by DOF. The NGOs will still be there long after our project. The
consultants would project would also assist in translating the recently issued National Fisheries Policy
into actions.
Transport, Machinery and Equipment US$7.1 million of which IDA US$3.4 million; GOB US$3.7
million; ). This sub-component would fund the cost of vehicles and office and other equipment,
including all items required to implement those components under the direct control of DOF - equipment
for components implemented by LGED and BWDB are included in the component budgets.
Training (US$1.4 million of which GEF US$0.6 million; DFID US$0.8 million). Staff within DOF
currently have a strong biological focus. In order to strengthen DOF's capacity to manage fisheries
development, provide effective aquaculture extension and implement the project, staff training would be
provided to strengthen, in particular, economics, social development, comrmunity development, and
participation skills. Training would include some overseas courses (masters and short courses), support
to attend international meetings and seminars, and in-country courses, some of which would be provided
by overseas institutions. Wherever possible, split center courses would be encouraged, with field work
being undertaken in Bangladesh. Details of the proposed training program are included in the PIP. For
example, GEF would finance incremental costs defined as those that would increase staff capacity
beyond those required to support management activities with an exclusive fish production vision in order
to incorporate full consideration and understanding of biodiversity issues. These skills include freshwater
and aquatic ecology, population biology and modeling, taxonomy, cultural aspects, traditional knowledge,
and genetics.
DOF District Offices (US$1.1 million of which IDA IUS$1.0 million; GOB US$0.1 million). In order
to support project activities and to further strengthen the DOF, it is proposed to construct up to 10 new
District Fisheries Offices (DFOs) in districts that lack these buildings. Priority would be given to the
three districts comprising the Chittagong Hill Tracts and those districts in which major project-assisted
investments would be implemented. DOF has prepared a list of selected DFOs to be constructed under the
project. Estimated cost of the 10 DFOs is US$0.8 million.
Flood Damage Rehabilitation (US$4.7 million of which IDA US$3.9 million; GOB US$0.7 million).
The project would also assist in the renovation of DOF facilities (including Fish Seed Multiplication
Farms and Fisheries Training Centers) damaged by the 1998 floods. Eight Fish Seed Multiplication
Farms (FSMFs) were divested under the Third Fisheries Project. FSMFs to be rehabilitated under the
proposed project would be used for the purpose of maintaining a diverse genetic population of fish brood
stock. This objective is different from that of being public sector commercial seed producers. Genetic
diversity has been raised as a serious concern for the cultured fishes in the country. The quality of fish
seed has declined due to inbreeding within species and use of unsuitable brood stock. Accordingly, a
new initiative was included in the project to develop improved brood stock management of the major
fishes artificially propagated in the country. Thus, FSMFs to be rehabilitated would be used as part of
this initiative. The activity requires a high degree of technical expertise concerning genetics and would



50
be supported in part by Fisheries Research Institute (FRI) scientists and complement a similar DFID-
assisted program currently under implementation in Parbatipur. Assurance was given during negotiations
that the facilities rehabilitated under the project would be used only for the specified functions and not for
general fish seed multiplication. However, any excess production from fish genetic improvement
activities, including hatchlings, fry, fingerlings, and brood stock may be sold.. DOF engineers would
make estimates of the costs of renovation for project costing purposes, and these estimates would be
reviewed by an engineering design consultant financed by the project after it becomes effective. For
budgeting purposes, a preliminary amount of US$4.7 million has been allocated.



51
Annex 3
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                              Local            Foreign        Total
-U----------- --- --l US $ million---------
1. Community-based Inland Open-water Fisheries
Management                                                         12.9              0.6           13.5
1.1 Community-based Stock Enhancement
1.2 Pilot Fish Passes/Water Regulatory Structures             6.1              0.0            6.1
1.3 Fish Habitat Restoration                                  3.6              0.1            3.7
1.4 Pilot Aquatic Sanctuaries                                 1.8              0.0            1.8
1.4             0.5            1.9
2. Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture                                       6.9              0.0           6.9
2.1 Completion of Third Fisheries Project Polders             3.9              0.0            3.9
2.2 Development of New Polder                                 2.8              0.0            2.8
2.3 Training of shrimp Fry Collectors                         0.2              0.0            0.2
3. Freshwater Aquaculture                                           4.7              0.0           4.7
3.1 Extension and Training                                    4.7              0.0            4.7
4. Aquatic Resources Development, Management, and
Conservation Studies                                                2.0              1.1           3.1
4.1 Management of Hilsa Areas
4.2 Assessment of Ecosystem Integrity and Sustainability       0.8             0.1            0.9
4.3 Ecological Relations of Exotic Species                     0.5             0.4            0.9
4.4 Action Plans and Aquatic Database                          0.1             0.1            0.2
4.5 Studies to Prepare Future Projects                        0.5              0.4            0.9
0.1             0.1            0.2
5. Institutional Support to DOF and Training of NGOs               11.9              9.2          21.1
5.1 Project Management Unit                                   0.9              0.0            0.9
5.2 National and Expatriate Consultants                        1.7             6.8            8.5
5.3 Transport, Machinery, and Equipment                       4.2               1.7           5.9
5.4 Training                                                  0.4              0.7            1.1
5.5 Construction of DOF District Offices                      0.9              0.0            0.9
5.6 Flood Damage Rehabilitation                               3.8              0.0            3.8
Total Baseline Cost                                                38.4             10.9          49.3
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                           3.7              0.7            4.4
Price Contingencies                                              5.5              1.5            7.0
Total Project Cost                                                 47.6             13.2           60.8



52
Annex 3A
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Estimated Project Costs by Component and Financing Plan
(Including Contingencies)
(US$ Million)
COMPONENT                                                 of which:            Total
IDA  GEF DFID  GOB  Ben8 Total
I Community-based Inland Open-water Fisheries
Management                                        8.2  1.3   3.6   1.0  3.0  17.1
1.1  Community-based stocking                   3.0          2.0   0.1  2.8   7.9
1.2  Restoration of fish habitats               1.8          0.2   0.3          2.3
1.3  Aquatic sanctuaries                             1.39   0.8          0.2   2.3
1.4  Fish passes and regulators                 3.4          0.6   0.6          4.6
2  Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture                        6.3  0.1   0.7   1.5            8.5
2.1  Completion of TFP polders                  3.4          0.5   1.0          4.8
2.2  Development of new polder                  2.7          0.2   0.5          3.4
2.3  Improvements in shrimp fry collection      0.2  0.1            0.0         0.3
methods
3  Freshwater Aquaculture                            4.3                 1.4         5.7
3.1  Aquaculture extension and training         4.3                 1.4         5.7
4 Aquatic Resources Development, Management, and
Conservation Studies                              0.8  3.0           0.1          3.9
4.1  Management of hilsa fisheries areas        0.5  0.5            0.1         1.1
4.2  Assessment of ecosystem integrity and            1.1                       1.1
sustainability
4.3  Ecological relations of exotic species           0.3                       0.3
4.4  Action plans and aquatic database                1.1                       1.1
4.5  Studies to prepare future projects         0.3                             0.3
5 Institutional Support to DOF and Training of
NGOs                                              8.5  0.6  11.2   5.4           25.8
5.1  Project Management Unit                    0.2                 0.8         1.0
5.2  National and expatriate consultants                    10.5               10.6
5.3  Transport, machinery, equipment            3.4                 3.7         7.1
5.4  Training                                         0.6   0.8                 1.4
5.5  DOF district offices                       1.0                 0.2         1.1
5.6  Flood rehabilitation/genetic problem       3.9                 0.7         4.7
6  Total cost                                       28.0  5.0  15.5   9.3  3.0  60.8
8 Ben stands for Beneficiaries.
Out of US$1.3 million, US$0.7 million is for monitoring floodplain fisheries productivity, genetic diversity, and
biodiversity in project assisted areas.



53
Annex 3B
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Incremental Cost Analysis for GEF Funding
Baseline
Under the baseline scenario, it is expected that Bangladesh will continue to invest its own resources and
borrow from development agencies to increase fish production with emphasis on employment generation,
poverty alleviation, and protein production. Even the long-term sustainability of the important inland
fisheries sector depends upon the maintenance of natural hydrological and ecological processes.
Important institutional, capacity, and information barriers remain that impede the internalization of these
issues in the decision-making process. Therefore, under the baseline scenario it can be expected that
further investments in the inland fisheries sector will occur with the objective of increasing production
and productivity, while ignoring broader ecological goa].s. Under this scenario, it is possible that the
ecological sustainability of the system will suffer, although because of the high productivity of the delta it
may be possible to maintain some degree of production within a much simplified and biologically
impoverished system.
Global Environmental Objectives
The global environmental objectives of the GEF components of this project are to conserve globally
important wetlands and aquatic biodiversity in Bangladesh by mainstreaming biodiversity and aquatic
ecosystem conservation within the inland and coastal fisheries sector. Importantly, this project will also
help develop a model with broader applicability for mainstreaming biodiversity considerations in a sector
with crucial social, economic, and environmental dimensions throughout tropical regions.
GEF Alternative
Under the GEF scenario, substantial information, capacity, and experience will be developed to promote
the mainstreaming of aquatic biodiversity conservation and its sustainable use within the fisheries sector.
The GEF approach relies on removing barriers for successful mainstreaming through demonstration,
capacity building, enhancement of the information base for sound decision making, and policy
development. The GEF components (in phases) will support the piloting of community-based aquatic
sanctuaries to benefit both fishing resources and freshwater biodiversity; enhance local capacity for
addressing aquatic ecosystem management issues; enhance the knowledge base for sound ecosystem
management and decision-making, including monitoring and evaluation for sustainable long-term aquatic
ecosystem management; and develop feasible policy recommendations for mainstreaming. It is expected
that these steps will have substantial multiplicative effects and provide the foundation for mainstreaming
biodiversity considerations within Bangladesh's important fisheries sector.
Incremental Costs
The incremental costs are calculated as the difference between the GEF scenario and the baseline
scenario. The results are presented in the matrix below.



54
Incremental Cost Matrix for GEF Funding
Component          Cost           Cost US$    Domestic Benefit        Global Benefit
Category      Million
1. Inland Open Water Baseline    15.8        Increased inland fish   Habitat enhancement and improvement
Fisheries                                    production               of overall aquatic habitats condition
Management
GEF                 17.1                          Pilot experiences on aquatic sanctuaries
Alternative                                       with applicability throughout Bangladesh
Incremental          1.3
2. Coastal Shrimp  Baseline              8.4  Environmentally-friendly  Loss of habitats due to shrimp cultivation
Aquaculture                                  shrimp aquaculture       eliminated
GEF                  8.5                          Conservation of aquatic biodiversity
Alternative                                       dependent associated with shrimp
industry
Incremental          0.1
3. Freshwater      Baseline              4.5  Enhanced and innovative  Opportunities to mainstream aquatic
Aquaculture,                                 experiences with         biodiversity considerations
Extension and                                 sustainable aquaculture
Training
GEF                  4.5                          Same as above
Alternative
Incremental          0.0
4. Aquatic Reources  Baseline            0.9  Enhanced capacity at all   Enhanced capacity for aquatic ecosystem
Policy Development                            levels for sustainable  management
fisheries management;
ability to deal with
productive aspects of
inland fisheries sector
GEF                  3.9                          Ability to mainstream aquatic
Alternative                                       biodiversity of global importance;
information generation for policy
development to achieve mainstreaming
Incremental          3.5
5. Institutional   Baseline             25.2  Enhanced capacity to    Enhanced appreciation of national
Support and                                  translate policy into   biodiversity conservation among policy
Capacity Building                            action and to develop the  makers.
necessary execution plan.
GEF                 25.8                          Enhanced appreciation of global
Alternative                                       biodiversity conservation among policy
makers.
Incremental          0.6
TOTALS             Baseline             55.8                    .
GEF                 60.8
Alternative
Incremental          5.0



55
Annex 4
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Taka million, 1998)
Components          Net Present Value of Flows       Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial
Analysis      Analysis10     Taxes      Subsidies"
1. Inland Open-water
i) Stock Enhancement
Benefits          1354.1         1354.1        58.6        194.9
Costs             1003.8         1062.5
Net Benefits:     350.3          291.7
IRR:              42%            36%
ii) Fish Passes
Behefits          707.1          707.1         34.8        174.0
Costs             467.5         502.3
Net Benefits:     239.6          204.8
IRR:              30%           26%
iii) Habitat Restoration
Benefits          319.4          319.4         14.8        51.4
Costs             220.1         235.1
Net Benefits:     99.1           84.2
IRR:              35%            30%
iv) Aquatic Sanctuaries
Benefits          664.3          664.3         22.4        142.4
Costs             390.4         412.8
Net Benefits:     273.8          251.5
IRR:              183%           143%
2. Coastal Shrimp
i) Compl. of TFP Polders
Benefits          3943.9         3556.2        527.2      (36.6)
Costs             1801.5         1941.0
Net Benefits:     2142.4         1615.1
IRR:              70%            57%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
" Additional subsidy that is needed from the Government of Bangladesh after collecting tax revenues, and including
extemal financing.



56
Components          Net Present Value of Flows       Fiscal Impact
Economnic     Financial
Analysis      Analysis"      Taxes      Subsidies"
ii) Dev. Of New Polder
Benefits          786.9         710.0          126.6       29.2
Costs             618.3          667.9
Net Benefits:     168.6         42.1
IRR:              22%            15%
iii) lmprovement in
Shrimp Fry Collection
Benefits          116.3          116.3         2.0        (1.3)
Costs             9.8            18.1
Net Benefits:     102.5          98.2
IRR:              71%            54%
3. Freshwater Aquacul.
Extension & Training
Benefits          2141.9         2141.9        40.6       (4.4)
Costs             9928           10335
Net Benefits:     1149.0         1108.4
IRR:              77%            69%
4. Aquatic Resource
Hilsa Conservation
Benefits          2099.6         2099.6        30.3       216.3
Costs             724.8         755.2
Net Benefits:     1374.7         1344.4
IRR:              282%           261%
TOTAL PROJECT14
Benefits          12133.4        11668.7       1129.0      881.0*
Costs             6866.0         7532.1
Net Benefits:     5263.4        4134.4
IRR:              48%            37%
* Includes net subsidies on other cost components as well. The subsidy already includes the impact of the tax
revenues.
Summary of benefits and costs:
The main project benefits would be increased fish and shrimp production through various investment
interventions and better resource management; increased employment opportunities; and aquatic
biodiversity conservation. All this would be expected to contribute to rural poverty alleviation. Project
12 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
3 Additional subsidy that is needed from the Government of Bangladesh after collecting tax revenues, and including
external financing.
4 The total benefits and costs include the fisheries studies and the institutional support costs as well.



57
costs include: fingerlings, civil works, transport, machinery and equipment, consultants, training, and
studies.
Main Assumptions: The underlying assumptions employed in the analysis are:
Prices. All values have been expressed in constant 1998 prices. The real prices of fish and shrimp are
expected to remain constant, but all data are adjusted to reflect the effects of inflation. Most of the
shrimp from the project was assumed to be exported, while most of the fish was assumed to be consumed
domestically. All traded commodities were valued at import parity prices and non-traded goods were
based on domestic financial prices. Non-traded outputs and inputs were expressed in border prices
through application of conversion factors. Detailed explanation of how conversion factors for various
items were arrived at is in the project file. Assumed output prices are also in the project files.
Adjustments were also made for foreign exchange premium.
Investment Costs. After removing price contingencies, taxes, and duties, all investment costs have been
included in the analysis. Since these distortions are transfers within the economy, they do not constitute a
true resource cost. Details on cost items and their respective values assumed in the analysis are in the
spreadsheets kept in the project files. Labor was separated into skill categories. The wage rates were at
the prevailing rates for equivalent labor. Expatriate labor was assumed to repatriate a portion of their
income. The economic cost of labor is also distorted by income taxes. These were excluded in order to
arrive at conversion factors for different skill categories of labor.
Project Life. A 20-year project life was assumed for all, components except for restoration of fish
habitats for which a 10-year life was assumed. A five-year implementation period was assumed.
Fish and Shrimp Yields. The increases in yield due to project impacts were derived from past
experience in Bangladesh with similar projects. For example, an eightfold increase was assumed for the
fingerling stocking program. Details are in the spreadsheets kept in project files.
Overhead Costs. Whenever possible project costs have been allocated to specific components in the
financial and economic analysis. However, it was not possible, for example, to allocate the cost of
investment in Project Management Unit, national and foreign consultants, transport, machinery, and
equipment to any of the components for which it was possible to estimate a rate of return and net present
value. These overheads amount to about 40% of the cost of the other components, and DOF has allocated
them on a pro-rata basis. Thus, the costs of the components for which NPV, FRRs and ERRs could not
be estimated are somehow built into the estimation of these parameters in other components of the project
where the parameters could be estimated. Details are in. the speadsheets in the project files.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items
The most critical variables are cost over-runs and decreases in fish and shrimp yields. The table below
shows the percentages by which these variables would need to change in order to reduce the overall
project FRR and ERR to 12% and financial and economic NPV to zero. The table also shows the
percentages by which the same variables need to change in order for the FRR and ERR for each sub-
component to fall to 12% and for the respective NPV to fall to zero.



58
Switching Values of Critical Items
Investment Cost Over-run           Decrease in Yield
Overall project FNPV                      185%                            -35%
Overall project ENPV                      280%                            -43%
Investment Cost Over-run          Decrease in Yield
Stock Enhancement FNPV                     94%                            -22%
Stock Enhancement ENPV                     119%                           -26%
Fish Passes FNPV                           93%                            -29%
Fish Passes ENPV                           121%                           -34%
Habitat Restoration FNPV                   81%                            -26%
Habitat Restoration ENPV                   104%                           -31%
Aquatic Sanctuaries FNPV                   249%                           -38%
Aquatic Sanctuaries ENPV                   292%                           -41%
Co:mpl. of TFP Polders FNPV                599%                           -45%
Co:mpl. of TFP Polders ENPV                859%                           -54%
Dev. Of New Polder FNPV                    26%                            -6%
Dev. Of New Polder ENPV                    112%                           -21%
Improvement in Shrimp Fry                  625%                           -86%
Collection Methods FNPV
Improvement in Shrimp Fry                 1088%                           -92%
Collection Methods ENPV                                                                      .
Extension & Training FNPV                  414%                           -52%
Extension & Training ENPV                  478%                           -54%
Hilsa Conservation FNPV                   2605%                           -64%
Hilsa Conservation ENPV                   2858%                           -65%



59
Annex 4A
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
1.     Methodology
The approach adopted in this study is to carry out the appraisal of this project through the evaluation of
its five major components. The analysis addresses the financial, economic and distributive aspects of
each of these components. 15 The analysis is also conducted from the viewpoint of the fisheries sector,
the economy, and the fishermen themselves, who are expected to be the main beneficiaries of the project.
It is important to distinguish between each aspect and consider them separately, since each viewpoint
focuses on a different aspect of the costs and benefits of the project. We further analyze the budgetary
impacts of the project on DOF, the project's implementing agency.
Financial analysis is based on discounted cash flows. The net present value (NPV) of the project is
estimated from the total investment point-of-view, which evaluates the project from an unleveraged
perspective. Such an analysis helps assess the financial robustness of the project and its ability to
generate sufficient funds to repay any debt obligations. This analysis is conducted for each component of
the project.
Following the financial analysis, economic prices are estimated for inputs and outputs to derive the
statement of net economic benefits. While the financial analysis focuses on the net financial benefits of
the project, the economic analysis aggregates all benefits and costs to the entire economy. Furthermore,
we calculate the premium on foreign exchange placed upon the economy as a result of distortions in the
market for foreign exchange in Bangladesh. The commodity specific conversion factors are estimated for
the major inputs and outputs of the project. Applying these variables, the financial cash flow statement is
converted to reflect the economic resource flows generated by the project.
The analysis is further expanded to assess the allocation of externalities (costs or benefits) of the project.
It is important to ascertain whether certain groups in the economy benefit from the project at the expense
of others.
Risk analysis is an important enhancement applied to the financial, economic and distributive analysis. It
is useful for decision-makers to assess the potential variability of key variables and their effects on the
project outcomes. Project parameters such as real exchange rates, input prices, and inflation can be
important in determining future returns of this project. To measure the extent of various risks and their
effect on the project, a Monte Carlo analysis16 is used to model a probable distribution of the risk
variables and the resulting outcome.
'5 Jenkins, Glenn P., "The Valuation of Stakeholder Impacts in Cost-Benefit Analysis", Development Discussion
Paper #631, HIID, Cambridge, MA, April 1998.
16 Using Crystal Ball risk analysis software developed by Decisioneering Inc., Denver, Colorado.



60
2.     Financial Analysis
The project is extremely robust in its potential to increase fish and shrimp yields and provide a sound
financial return on these investments. Since there are various stakeholders, the project was evaluated
from an unleveraged total investment point-of-view. Results of the financial analysis are presented in
Table 1. Nominal and real cash flows are presented in Tables 2 and 3, respectively.
Each component that increases the catch generates a positive NPV. In the inland open-water fisheries
cornponent, stocking and aquatic sanctuaries show very high retums. In fact, aquatic sanctuaries provide
an NPV that is three times greater than the present value (PV) of its investment. The fish passes sub-
component also has a NPV similar to the aquatic sanctuaries, but requires substantially higher
investments in order to obtain such a retum.
The coastal shrimp aquaculture component provides substantial revenues due to the increases in yield and
the high export price associated with the sale of shrimp. The completion of the polders begun in the
previous project capture all the revenue but only incur the cost of completion, since the benefits would be
absent in the event it is not completed. The costs are small relative to the benefits, since a large part of
the investment was already undertaken during the previous project. This is indicated by the higher
NPV/PV-of-Costs ratio. The new polder that is expected to be developed by the project provides an
adequate albeit relatively lower rate of return, because the entire cost of building a polder is attributed to
the project. The NPV/PV-of-Cost ratio indicates that the return relative to investment is significantly
lower than the previous sub-component.
Past experience shows that training programs generally lead to more efficient fish cultivation techniques
and practices that benefit fishermen. The project includes such a component designed to harness all the
potential of the other components by further increasing the yields. This component generates a
substantial NPV at a relatively small cost.
The fisheries studies and the project management investment do not generate a positive NPV since we are
unable to allocate the costs of these general expenditures to any specific project components. They are
expected, however, to have a significant impact on the project's retums, since support to DOF is deemed
necessary to harness all other project benefits. Therefore, these investments are best evaluated as a part
of the complete project, rather than as individual components. When analyzed together, the project
remains robust as it generates an overall NPV of Taka 4,134.4 million, with an FRR of 37%.



61
Table 1: Results of Financial Analysis
(in Taka Lakhs)
NPV          FIRR       NPV/PV
in 1998 Taka       %         Costs
Lakhs
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
Community-based Stockings                                    2,917          36         0.93
Restoration of Fish Habitats                                  842           30          0.81
Aquatic Sanctuaries                                          2,515          143         3.56
Fish Passes and Regulators                                   2,048          26          0.97
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTIURE
Completion of TFP Polders                                   16,151          57          5.99
Development of new Polder                                     421           15          0.26
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods                 1006           54          3.97
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
Aquaculture Extension and Training                           11,084         69         4.14
COMPONENT 4 - AQUATIC RESOURCES POLICY
DEVELOPMENT
Hilsa Management                                             13,444         261        26.05
Conservation and other Studies                               -1722
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Project Management Unit                                      -7361
TOTAL NPV         12%      (real)                   41,344         37



Table 2. Financial Net Cash Flows [Nominall
(in Taka Lakhs)
COMPONENT I - OPENWATER FISHERIES
COMMUNITY BASED STOCKINGS                    (137)      (660)     (540)     (21)      1,105      1,150      1,467      1,873
RESTORATION OFFISHHABITATS                    (67)      (389)     (309)    (140)       509        686         -         -
AQUATIC SANCTUARIES                            (81)      (14)      284      378        460        691        882       1,125
FISH PASSES AND REGULATORS                    (225)   (1,047)      (933)    579        838       1,090      1,392      1,776
HILSA MANAGEMENT                              (196)     (111)    2,331    2,487       2,611      3,279      4,185      5,341
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTURE
COMPLETION OF TFP POLDERS                   (1,428)   (1,272)      423    2,166       4,106      5,330      6,803     8,683
DEVELOPMENT OF NEW POLDER                     (123)     (924)     (978)      (94)     (271)       882       1,121      1,430
IMPROVEMENTIN SHRIMP FRY COLLECTION           (117)      (14)       35        89      149        351        448        571
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
AQUACULTUREEXTENSIONAND TRAINING              (959)      (114)     498    1,172       2,596      3,479      4,440      5,667
COMPONENT 4 -FISHERIES STUDIES
CONSERVATION AND OTHER STUDIES                (422)     (385)     (424)    (465)       (728)       -          -          -
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
PROJECT MANA GEMENT UNIVT                    (3,707)   (1,530)    (1,542)   (1,069)    (1,109)     -          -          -
TOTAL                                        (7,463)   (6,459)    (1,154)   5,081    10,266     16,938     20,737     26,467



Table 3: Financial net Cash Flows (Real)
(in Taka Lakhs)
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
COMMUNVITY BASED STOCKINGS                             (137)     (629i     (489)      (19)      909       741        741        741
RESTORA TION OF FISH HABITA TS                          (67)     (371)     (280)    (121)       419       442         -
AQUA TIC SANCTUARIES                                    (81)      (131      258      326        379       445        445        445
FISH PASSES AND REGULA TORS                            (225)     (997)     1846)     500        690       703        703        703
HILSA MANAGEMENT                                       (196)     (105)    2,114    2,148      2,148      2,114      2,114     2,114
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTURE
COMPLETIONOFTFPPOLDERS                                (1,428)   (1,211)     383    1,871      3,378      3,436      3.436     3,436
DEVELOPMEAITOFNEWPOLDER                                (123)     (880)     (887)      (81)     (223)      569        566        566
IMPROVE. IN SHRIMP FRY COLLECTION                      (117)      (13)       32       77       122        226        226        226
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
AQUACULTUREEXTENSION AND TRAINING                      (959)     (109)      452    1,012      2,136      2,243      2,243     2,243
COMPONENT 4 -FISHERIES STUDIES
CONSERVATfON AND OTHER STUDIES                         (422)     (367)     1384)    (402)      (599)       -          -         -
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
PROJECTMANAGEMENT UNIT                               (3,707)   (1,457)   (1,399)    (923)      (913)       -          -         -
TOTAL                                                 (7.4631   (6,152)   (1,0461   4,390     8,446     10,919     10,474     10,474
NPV @     12.0%                        41.344           IRR           36.6%



64
Sensitivity Analysis. The financial outcome of this project is highly sensitive to the expected fish and
shrimp yields (Table 4). The project would not provide an adequate return on the investments if the
production of fish were 40 percent lower than the current assumptions. The current level of production is
feasible since past projects have also had similar production factors. However, a substantial reduction is
also possible since fish and shrimp are prone to various diseases which could threaten overall production.
Therefore, careful planning, implementation, and monitoring of the fish and shrimp production is
necessary in order to ensure results similar to the base case analysis. The possibility of a change in the
production factor is further simulated in the risk analysis.
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to a Reduction in Production Factor (Yield) and
Investment Cost Overruns
Production          Financial          Investment          Financial
Factor             NPV             Cost Overruns           NPV
(% change from    1998 Taka Lakhs      (% change from     1998 Taka Lakhs
base case)                             base case)
0               41,344                 0                41,344
-4               35,510                10 3),105
-lo              29,676                20                36,866
-15              23,841                30                34,627
-20              18,007                40                32,388
-25              12,173                so                30,149
-30               6,338                60                27,910
-35                504                 70                25,671
-40              (5,330)               80                23,432
-50              (16,999)              90                21,193
-60             (28,668)               100               18,954
The project's outcome does worsen if it were to experience larger investment costs than originally
planned. For example, a 20% increase in investment costs would reduce the financial NPV of the project
by over 10%. It would take an investment cost overrun of 185%, however, to compromise the financial
viability of the project. However, a combination of cost overruns and other volatile variables may result
in a negative NPV.
The fishing costs account for significant portion of the expenditure incurred by the fishermen. If these
costs were to rise from the current Taka 8 per kg to Taka 10 per kg, the financial NPV would be reduced
by 8% (Table 5). It is reasonable to expect some fluctuation in the fishing cost since these costs are
determined by market forces.
The project outcome can be further altered if revenues were to change as a result of a change in the price
of fish. All the financial benefits of the project are based on the yield and the price of fish and shrimp.
The analysis indicates that a 10% change in the selling price of fish can alter the financial NPV by as
much as 13%. The price of fish, however, is not expected to decline significantly in the future since the
demand for fish, which is a staple food that provides substantial nutritional intake for the people in
Bangladesh, is expected to remain constant.



65
Table 5. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to Fishing Costs and Price of Fish
Fishing costs
Per Kg         Financial NPV       Fish Price      Financial NPV
(in Taka)      1998Taka Lakhs         (Taka)       1998Taka Lakhs
6               44,596              30              27,739
7               42,970              32              30,460
8               41,344              34              33,181
9               39,719              36              35,902
10              38,093              38              38,623
11              36,468              40              41,344
12              34,842              42              44,066
13              33,217              44              46,787
14              31,591              46              49,508
15              29,966
The largest impacts on the financial NPV result from changes in the production factor and investment
cost overruns. Therefore, it is helpful to assess the impact of simultaneous changes in these variables on
the project's financial outcome (Table 6). The sensitivity analysis indicates that a 30% decrease in yield
coupled with a 30% increase in investment cost would result in a negative NPV. Table 6 illustrates other
combinations of decrease in yield and cost overruns that would compromise the financial viability of the
project.
Table 6. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial NPV to Production Factor (Yield) and Investment Cost
Overruns (in 1998 Taka Lakhs)
Percentage increase in investment cost
0%        10%        20%         30%        40%        50%        60%
Percentage    0%     41,344     39,105      36,866     34,627     32,388      30,149     27,910
increase in   -5%    35,510     33,271      31,032     28,793     26,554     24,315      22,076
yield     -10%    29,676      27,437     25,198     22,959      20,720     18,481     16,242
-15%    23,841     21,602      19,363     17,124     14,885      12,646     10,407
-20%    18,007      15,768     13,529     11,290      9,051      6,812      4,573
-25%    12,173      9,934      7,695      5,456       3,217       978      (1,261)
-30%     6,338      4,099      1,860      (379)      (2,618)    (4,857)    (7,096)
-35%      504      (1,735)    (3,914)  ;(6,213)    (S,452)    (10,691)   (12,930)
-40%    (5,330)    (7,569)    (93808)    (12,047)   (14,286)   (16,S26 >   (18,765)
-50%   (1699)   (19,238)   (21,471)        3,716)   (25,955)   (28,194)   (30,433)
-60% j (28,668)   (30,997)   (33,146)   (35,385)   (37          393    (42,
3.     Economic Analysis
The initial step in conducting the economic analysis is to estimate the economic or the shadow price of all
the main project inputs and outputs. Then, we are able I-o derive conversion factors, which show the ratio
of economic price to financial price, which can be applied to the financial cash flows to derive the
economic benefits and resource costs.



66
The economic premium placed on foreign exchange due to various trade distortions is also estimated.
First, the premium that result from trade taxes is estimated. This is then enhanced by accounting for the
effect of the consumption taxes that exist in the country.
The domestic consumption of fish is expected to have the same economic value as the financial value.
This is because the project is not expected to alter the price of fish as a result of the project, which will
generate additional consumer surplus. Furthermore, the consumption of fish in Bangladesh is not taxed
or subsidized, which may cause the economic value to deviate from its financial equivalent.
Project input costs such as the purchase of fingerlings and fishing costs also have conversion factors of
1.00 indicating the absence of fiscal distortions. The sale of shrimp, on the other hand, provide an
economic benefit that is greater than the financial price of shrimp due to the foreign exchange premium
gained by the Government through its export.
Many other project components have economic values that are different from their financial costs due to
taxes and tariffs. Since these distortions are transfers within the economy, they do not constitute a true
resource cost to the economy. Therefore, the economic prices are lower than their financial equivalents, as
indicated by conversion factors that are less than one.
The economic cost of labor is also distorted by income taxes. Accounting for the tax effect results in
conversion factors that are less than one. Estimated conversion factors are detailed in one of the reports
(An Integrated Project Analysis) in the Project File.
Results of the economic analysis are presented Annex Table 7. The project's overall net present value
(NPV) is Taka 5,263.4 million (about US$106.6 million) and the overall economic rate of return (ERR) is
48%. The ERRs for each component are much higher than 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in Bangladesh. The project significantly enhances the net economic wealth of Bangladesh. The increase
in availability of fish for domestic consumption, and the foreign exchange earned through export of
shrimp generate substantial benefits to society. In fact, the economic NPV is larger than the financial
returm on investment.
Inland open-water fisheries component, including the training program, enhances the net wealth of the
economy through the increase in fish production. The people in Bangladesh are better off, since the
project is able to increase the supply of a staple food. ERRs for the inland open-water fisheries sub-
comrponents range from 30% (fish passes and regulators) to 183% (aquatic sanctuaries). The shrimp
component shows a marked improvement since the economic value of the shrimp exports is higher than
the export price, due to the foreign exchange premium gained through exports. The investment costs are
lower as well, since the economic costs of most of the investments are lower than their financial values.
Therefore, the economic NPV of the shrimp component is 50% greater than the financial NPV. ERRs for
the shrimp sub-components are 70%, 22%, and 59% for completion of TFP polders, development of a
new polder, and training of shrimp fry collectors, respectively. Freshwater aquaculture extension
component has an NPV of Taka 1,149 million and ERR of 77%. Hilsa conservation shows a high ERR
of 282% due to high retums associated with low investments. Net economic benefit flow statement is
presented in Table 8.



67
Table 7: Results of Economic Analysis
(in Taka Lakhs)
ENPV    ERR
1998 Taka Lakhs    %
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
Community-based Stocking                                        3,503     42
Restoration of Fish Habitats                                      991     35
Aquatic Sanctuaries                                             2,738    183
Fish Passes and Regulators                                      2,396     30
Completion of TFP Polders                                      21,424     70
Development of New Polder                                        1,686    22
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods                    1,025     59
Aquaculture Extension and Training                             11,490     77
Hilsa Management                                               13,747    282
Conservation and other Studies                                 -1,336
Project Management Unit                                        -5,030
TOTAL ENPV @        12%                                  52,634     48



Table 8: Net Economic Benefit Flow Statement
(in Taka Lakhs)
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
COMMUNITY BASED STOCKINGS                                (124)      (589)      (422)       49       977         831        831         831
RESTORA TION OF FISH HABITA TS                            (59)      (343)      (245)      (84)      438         459           -           -
AQUA TIC SANCTUARIES                                       (71)       20        299       365       411         469         469        469
FISH PASSES AND REGULATORS                                (196)     (905)      (728)      542       713         725         725        725
HILSA CONSERVATION                                        (174)     (101)     2,153     2,186     2,186       2,159       2,159       2,159
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP
COMPLETION OF TFP POLDERS                               (1,330)    (1,120)     701      2,479     4,275       4,322       4,322       4,322
DEVELOPMENT OFNEWPOLDER                                   (108)     (822)      (827)      (72)     (112)        827        824         824
IMPROVE. IN SHRIMP FRY COLLECTION                         (102)      (12)        33        79       124         226         226        226
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE                                                                                                        co
AQUACULTUREEXTENSIONAND TRAINING                          (861)      (35)       531     1,097     2,171       2,265       2,265       2,265
COMPONENT 4 - FISHERIES STUDIES
CONSERVA TION AND OTHER STUDIES                          (328)      (284)     (298)    (312)       (464)          -           -           -
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL
PROJECTMANAGEMENT UNIT                                  (2,059)   (1,193)    (1,149)     (739)     (731)           -          -           -
TOTAL NET BENEFIT FLOWS                                (5,412)   (5,384)        49     5,590      9,989     12,284      11,822      11,822
ENPV @  12.0                                52,63             IRR            48%



69
Sensitivity Analysis. The economic outcome is sensitive to a reduction in production factor (yield) and
cost overruns (Table 9). A reduction in the production factor substantially affects the economic outcome
as well as the financial results. A catastrophe in the form of fish or shrimp disease or serious drought,
which would significantly alter the expected yields would affect the economic NPV in two ways: the
lower economic return due to less fish that may be available for consumption and the loss of positive
economic extemalities through shrimp exports which gain a foreign exchange premium. A 50%
reduction in yield can compromise the economic viability of the project.
Table 9. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic NPV to a Reduction in Production Factor (Yield)
and Cost Overruns
Production Factor    Economnic NPV    Investnent Cost Overrun    Econonic NPV
(% change from base case)   1998 Taka Lakhs   (% change from base case)    1998 Taka Lakhs
0                 52,674                 0                    52,634
-5                46,607                 10                   50,746
-10                40,541                 20                  48,857
-15                34,474                 30                   46,969
-20                28,407                 40                   45,080
-25                22,340                 50                   43,192
-30                16,274                 60                   41,303
-35                10,207                 70                   39,415
-40                4,140                  80                   37,527
-50                -7,993                 90                   35_638
-60               -20,126                100                   33,750
The economic impact due to changes in the investment costs are similar to results from the financial
analysis. The economic effect of an equivalent change in cost overruns is lower than its financial impact,
since the economic value of investment resources are lower than the financial costs. A combination of
negative changes in production and investment cost can impact the project adversely (Table 10). For
example, a combined 40% decrease in fish yield and 30% increase in investment cost or 35% decrease in
yield and 60% increase in cost would make the NPV become negative and ERR fall below 12%. The
likelihood of such high negative changes in yield and cost occurring at the same time is low.
4.     Distributive Analysis
The stakeholders in this project are the fishermen and the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) represented
by DOF. The fishermen receive most of the benefits of the project, as they are able to gain all the
revenues that result from the increases in yield. The costs incurred by the fishermen include lease fees
and share of investment costs paid to GOB, fishing costs, and supervision costs. GOB's involvement in
the project comprise of three parts. First, the government receives fishermen's contribution towards the
project's investment. The lease fees are not included as an incremental income to the government, since
the present lessors already remit this amount. Additionally, GOB incurs most of the investment costs as
well. GOB also receives financing in the form of grants and an IDA credit, which make up the shortfall
between investment costs and the significantly lower revenues from the project. Finally, GOB receives
incremental tax revenue as well as the foreign exchange premium on exports as a result of the project.
As Table II illustrates, the fishermen in the project area stand to gain significantly as the project is
designed to increase the quantity of fish in the region and train fishermen regarding better fishing
methods, which together will significantly improve the yields. Specifically, the hilsa conservation,
completion of polders begun in the previous project, and the extension and training components provide



70
the greatest benefits to the fishermen. Furthermore, the fishermen do not incur the costs of the fisheries
studies and the institutional support components, but stand to benefit from these investments.
Table 10. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic NPV to Production Factor (Yield) and
Investment Cost Overruns (1998 Taka Lakhs)
Investment Cost Overrun
0%      10%     20%      30%      40%      50%       60%
0%      52,634  50,746   48,857   46,969   45,080    43,192   41,303
-5%     46,568  44,679   42,791   40,902   39,014    37,125   35,237
-10%     40,501  38,613   36,724   34,836   32,947    31,059   29,170
Production   -15%     34,434  32,546   30,657   28,769   26,880    24,992   23,103
Factor    -20%      28,368  26,479   24,591   22,702   20,814    18,925   17,037
-25%     22,301  20,412   18,524   16,635   14,747    12,859   10,970
-30%     16,234  14,346   12,457   10,569    8,680    6,792    4,903
-35%     10,168   8,279    6,391    4,502    2,614      725
_-40% _   4,101 _2,212 __324                        040
-50%                                                    7 
-60%_
GOB, as a stakeholder in the project, needs to evaluate the budgetary impact of the project. A revenue
source for GOB is the contribution that would be made by the fishermen. The analysis may overstate
actual collections, however, since GOB may be unable to collect payments from some fishermen.
Table 11: Project Impact on Fishermen
(in 1998 Taka Lakhs)
Net Benefits Accrued to
Fishermen
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
Community-based Stocking                                         8,212
Restoration of Fish Habitats                                     2,413
Aquatic Sanctuaries                                              4,363
Fish Passes and Regulators                                       5,399
Hilsa Management                                                 16,425
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTURE
Completion of TFP Polders                                        23,647
Development of new Polder                                        3,596
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods                     1,163
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
Aquaculture Extension and Training                               14,093
TOTAL IMPACT ON FISHERMEN                                        79,310
Another impact is the externalities received by GOB. GOB gains incremental tax revenue on all taxable
project costs. It also gains incremental tariff revenue on any importable input utilized by the project,
while it bears the foreign exchange premium costs. The project provides GOB with Taka 11,290 lakh in
net revenues through the externalities generated by project components, as illustrated in Table 12. The



71
Completion of TFP Polders provides the greatest fiscal revenue since it generates tax and tariff revenues
from the large investment as well as the foreign exchange premium that result from shrimp exports. A
sub-component such as the hilsa conservation which displays high financial and economic rates of return
does not provide a significant amount of externality revenues since it does not consist of many taxable
items.
Table 12: Value of Externalities Generated by the Project
(in 1998 Taka Lakhs)
PV of Total Externalities
Accrued to Government
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
Community-based Stockings                                          586
Restoration of Fish Habitats                                       148
Aquatic Sanctuaries                                                224
Fish Passes and Regulators                                         348
Hilsa Management                                                   303
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTURE
Completion of TFP Polders                                          5,272
Development of new Polder                                           1,266
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods                       20
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
Aquaculture Extension and Training                                 406
COMPONENT 4 - AQUATIC RESOURCES POLICY
DEVELOPMENT
Conservation and other Studies                                     386
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Poject Management Unit                                             2,331
TOTAL EXTERNALITY                                                  11,290
GOB's fiscal budget is also affected by outflows due to project costs since GOB bears most of the
investment costs. DOF only receives the fishermen's contribution to the investment. The revenues from
increased production are captured solely by the fishermen. The resulting budgetary shortfall is expected
to be funded through the IDA-led financing package as well as the externality revenues generated by the
project. The remaining deficit, estimated to be Taka 8,810 lakh in present value terms must be supplied
by GOB. The operational budgetary shortfall has a present value of Taka 6,794 lakh. Tables 13 and 14
show the project's annual impact on GOB's budget prior to and with financing and tax revenues,
respectively. Thus, GOB must have a comprehensive plan to finance the operational costs it would incur
on behalf of the project. This is in addition to the investment financing being arranged with the various
funding agencies.



Table 13: Budgetary Impact on the Government
(in Taka Lakhs)
Budgetary Impact Prior to Financing and Tax Revenues
..   . .. ....   .        .        .        ...                ..                          .        .       .         .         .. 
ASCAVU~                                                "     '~     ' A               '               "     4    '       '''''"
*COMMUNITY BASED STOCKING                                     -         31         178        438        724        724          724         724
AQUATIC SANCTUARIES                                                      3          17         41         67         67           67          67
Total Cantribution from Benetfciaries                                   34         195        478                     1          791         791
i _w      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  .. ...
COMMUNITY BASED STOCIONG               ,(137).(1,210).(1,360).    ( 470),                               443))      (710)f       (7l)        (710)
RESTORATION OF FISH HABITATS                                (7)        (371)      (463),     (486):    (169)        (165)
AQUATIC SANCTUARIES                                           1). (372)0          (460)      (392)      (33)        (273)        (273)      (273)
FISH PASSES MiD REGULATORS j               j22)                      (1i428)    (1,7,80       (434),    (44)       231) .       (31)1      703
HILSA CONSERVATION            .     .          .          . (196),.,    (1O51      423,81     (34S,     (89).   (424)            (424)      (424)
COMPLETION OFTEP POLDERSllR  0 0000 T 0   00000          (1l,420) 0 l(1,211)      (444)       ( 677)    (37)         26)         426)       4326):
OEVELOPMENTOFNEWPOLPER                                     (123)        90l).       7)         41).    (236)        (19)1       (31)        (319),
TRAINING OF SHRIMP FRY CATCHERS                                                                           (3
AQUACuTUREE NSIONAND TRANG                                 (1           (13)               . . ( .).. . (7 13) .. (13).                      40)
CONSERVATiON ANiD OTHER STUDIES                            (422)      (367)   j  (34)         (402) j   499)           -            -          -
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                                  (3.707)     (1,457)    (13399)       423)       13)    .        . .
Total ProjedtlCosta Incurred by Government                (1,4)      4,1 j)       313)0      5,92      p,52i       Q .         (,843)       ii.99)
tNET FLOW PF?E FFIAM2PiIG  II s CKAL UACTS               (4463)     (5,06)    -(131)      (5,9.03,. (3,720     (,217         (           (1.11)



Table 14: Budgetary Impact on the Government
(in Taka Lakhs)
Budgetary Impact with Financing and Tax Revenues
YEAR                             1          2          3          4          5         10          t5         20
N4ETFLOWPREFWVANCING 8HFISCAL IWACTS                   (7,463)    (*,004)    (S,118)    (3,503)    (3,728)    (2,2i7)     (2,052)    (1.118)
World Bank                                              3,730      4,068      3,682      1,42?       728        -            -          -
DFID                                                    1,425      1,691      1,804      1,407     1,284
GEF                                                      527        517        550        414        435
TOTAL EXTERNAL FINANCING                                5,682      6,277      6,036      3,243     2,447
IET rFLOW PRE FISCAL IAFACTS                           (1,780)    (1,781)    (2,0t3)    (2,260)    (1,281)    (2,217)     (2,052)    (1,118)
REVENUE FROM WCREMENTAL TAXES D UE TO F'ROJECI
COMMUNITY BASED STOCKING                                   14        40         67         68         68         90          90         90
RESTORATION OF FISH HABITATS                               8         28         35         37         19        17
AQUATIC SANCTUARIES                                        1D        32         41         39         32         24          24         24
FISH PASSES AND REGULATORS                                28         92         119        42         24         23          23         23
HILSA CONSERVATION                                        22          4         38         38         33         45          45         45
COMPLETION OF TFP POLDERS                                 99         91        318        608        897       BBs          886        838                                                       w
DEVELOPMENTOF NEW POLDER                                  15         56         60          9        111       258          258        258
TRAINING OF SHRIMP FRY CATCHERS                            15         2          2          2          2
AQUACULTURE ExTENSION AND TRAINING                        93         73         79         85         36         22          22         22
CONSERVATIONAND OTHER STUDIES                             94         82         86         90        136          -            -          -
PROJECT MANAGEMENT tlNT                                 1,648       265        250        184        182          -            -          -
TOTAL FISCAL IMPACTS                                    2,051       767       1,095      1,200     1,543      1,365        1,348      1,348
NET REAL CASH FLOW ON GOVT. BUDGET                       270      (1,0206     (988)    (1,060)       262       (852)       (104)       230



74
5.     Risk Analysis
The cash flow projections in the deterministic spreadsheet model of the financial and economic analyses
do not account for the uncertainties and fluctuations that may occur in various project parameters. These
changes add further risks to investing in the project as their impact can alter the final outcome.
Therefore, it is helpful for project investors, planners, and implementers to attempt to assess such
impacts. Monte Carlo simulations, a form of risk analysis, provide one of the most practical methods to
approximate the dynamics and uncertainties of the real world. 17 The risk analysis repeats the financial
and economic analyses many times using distributions for the values of the most sensitive variables that
affect the project. The information from the sensitivity analyses is used to help identify the variables that
significantly affect the outcomes of the project. The risk variables are summarized in table 15.
Table 15: Risk Variables and their Impact and Risk Significance
Risk variables                                  Impact and risk significance
Production Factor        The single most important risk variable. Much of the robustness of the base case
analysis is based on the high yields expected from the project.
Cost Overruns            A rise in investments will create uncertainty for the entire project, since further
financing will be needed. The higher costs can also change the final outcome as
well.
Price of Fish            The price of fish may change in the future, but not substantially. However, small
changes can have some impact on the project's NPV.
Price of Shrimp          There may be small fluctuations in the price of shrimp based on world market
trends. This is not expected to have a large impact on the project outcomes.
Inflation                Inflationary effects will also call for additional financing in nominal terms, and
can affect the NPV of the project through accounts payable and cash balances.
Table 16 summarizes the various parameters that were selected for the risk analysis. The riskiness of the
NPVr can be inferred from the standard deviation that result from the risk analysis (Table 16). Based on
the selected risk variables, the economic and the financial return are equally affected by the possible
fluctuations. It is significant that neither analysis yields a probability of obtaining a negative NPV (Table
17). This does not mean that it would be impossible for this project to fail. This analysis is based on the
assumptions that the project has the institutional capacity and management to operate the facilities in a
manner so that costs will be contained and the production yields will be realized within the assumed
range and distribution for these key variables. Efforts within project implementation are directed at
strengthening this management capacity.
The risk analysis confirms the sensitivity analysis finding that the production factor can lend a substantial
amount of uncertainty to the base case analysis. Ninety five percent of the variability in the outcomes
was due to the volatility in the expected yields (Figure 1). The riskiness in the production factor is
17 Savvides, Sawakis, "Risk Analysis in Investment Appraisal", Project Appraisal, Beach Tree Publishing, 1994.



75
realistic since the entire project is substantiated based on the high expected yields. All other selected risk
factors, including cost overruns, add little volatility to the outcome of the project.
Table 16: Distributions and Parameters for Risk Variables
Variable             Distribution                                     Range
Production Factor                Nornal                             Mean                  0%
Standard Dev.        7%
Cost Overruns                    Custom/                              Range       Probability
Step                              -10.0%  to -5.0%    0.10
-5.0%   to 0.0%    0.30
0.0%    to 5.0%    0.40
5.0%    to 10.0%    0.15
10.0%  to 15.0%    0.05
Price of Fish                    Normal                             Mean                40.00 Taka
Standard Dev.      1.00 Taka
Price of Shrimp                  Normal                             Mean                USS 6.40
Standard Dev.      US$ 0.20
Inflation                        Normal                             Mean                5.0 %
Standard Dev.       0.5 %
Table 17: Results of Risk Analysis for Entire Project
Financial Analysis         Economic Analysis
Taka Lakhs                 Taka Lakhs
Expected NPV                            40,715                      52,115
Standard Deviation (C)                   8,358                      8,675
Probability of NPV < 0                    0%                          0%
It may be more useful to isolate the risks associated with each component of the project and assess the
viability of each sub-component in the face of uncertainty. Table 18 summarizes the risk analysis effects
on each sub-component. The most significant fluctuations in NPV occur in the Community-based
Stocking, Hilsa Conservation, Completion of TFP Polders, and the Aquaculture Extension and Training
components. The large volatility in these components are due to their high yields and the large
investment costs. The development of a new shrimp polder appears to be the riskiest sub-component. It
has a 25.3% probability of a negative return despite a smaller volatility compared to other components.
The much lower expected value (380 Taka Lakhs) makes the sub-component susceptible to even smaller
fluctuations in the risk variables. Conservation and other studies and Project Management Unit, which
are some of the sub-components without directly quantifiable benefits, fluctuate little since production
factor volatility that affects revenues in other sub-components does not affect them.



76
Figure 1: Factors that Cause Volatility in NPV
Price of Shrimp  Price of Fish    Inflation    Cost Overruns
2%%            1            1%            1%
Production Factor
95%
Table 18: Results of Risk Analysis for Each Component
STD.
Expected FNPV      Deviation
(in 1998       (in 1998
Takalakhs)    Taka lakhs) Prob. NPV<0
COMPONENT 1 - OPENWATER FISHERIES
Community-based Stockings                                       2,837           1,012        0.1%
Restoration of Fish Habitats                                     819             240          0%
Aquatic Sanctuaries                                             2,485            489          0%
Fish Passes and Regulators                                       1,999           530          0%
COMPONENT 2 - COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACIJLTURE
Completion of TFP Polders                                       16,034          2,701         0%
Development of new Polder                                        380             560         25.3%
Improvement in Shrimp Fry Collection Methods                     977             79           0%
COMPONENT 3 - FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE
Aquaculture Extension and Training                              10,990          1,571         0%
COMPONENT 4 - AQUATIC RESOURCES POLICY
DEVELOPMENT
Hilsa Management                                                13,395          1,454         0%
Conservation and other Studies                                  -1,722            6          100%
COMPONENT 5 - INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Project Management Unit                                         -7,481           388         100%



77
Results of risk analysis impact on the externality to GOB is summarized in Figure 2. GOB can get
affected through several risks associated with the project. The production factor (yield) and the price of
shrimp affect government revenue due to the foreign exchange premium that may be gained or lost.
Changes in cost overruns also impact GOB's budget as it alters the taxes and tariffs collected on
investment items. It is also significant to note that higher investment costs would require additional
financing from GOB.
Figure 2: Risk Analysis Impact on the Externality to Government
Cost Overruns
21%
Inflation
4%
---   --    \    Roduction
Factor
64%
Rice of Shrimp/
11%
6.     Conclusion
The integrated analysis of the project indicates that it is economically and financially viable. The project
generates a substantial return on investment in financial terms. The financial benefits and costs are
allocated between the two stakeholders, namely GOB and the fishermen. GOB only receives a relatively
small contribution by the fishermen, not the project revenues. Therefore, it must rely on external
financing and the tax revenue generated as a result of the project in order to finance the undertaking. Any
shortfall needs to be funded in the form of a subsidy by GOB. The fishermen, on the other hand, pay a
modest share of the investment costs, but are able to harness the revenue generated from the increase in
yield.
The project also significantly enhances the net economic wealth of Bangladesh. The increase in
availability of fish for domestic consumption, and the foreign exchange earned through export of shrimp
generate substantial benefits to society. In fact, the economic net present value is larger than the financial
return on investment. However, despite its robustness, the risk associated with the yield and possible
disease outbreak makes the base case analysis volatile.
There is an opportunity cost to using credits and grant money in any project. Although grants do not
require repayment, the project is utilizing financial resources that would otherwise be used elsewhere in
the economy. The financing of the project with IDA credit and DFID and GEF grants can be justified in
this case, however, since the project is able to increase the net economic wealth of Bangladesh.



78
Annex 5
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(US$ million, 1998)
Implementation Period                       Operational Period
00/01   01/02   02/03   03/04   04/05   05/06   06/07   07/08   08/09   09/10
Project Costs
Investment Costs          14.7    11.9    10.4      4.3      3.5
Recurrent Costs            1.8     2.9      3.9      3.9     3.1
Total                  16.5    14.8    14.3       8.2     6.6
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                       48      57       53      34       21
GiEF                       7       7        8       10      12
D]FID                     18      24       26      34       38
Government                27      11       10       11       6
Beneficiaries              0        1       3       11      23
Total                 100      100     100      100      100  I



79
Annex 6
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A summarizes the project items, their related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement.
Table B summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and prior review. Procurement of works
and goods would follow procedures outlined in the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999). Consultants financed by IDA and GEF would be recruited according to the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1977, revised September
1997 and January 1999. Other consultants financed by DFID would be recruited according to DFID's
Guidelines.
Civil works are in dispersed locations and the estimated cost of each contract are small, ranging from
US$4,000 to US$500,000 (with two exceptions in polder 32 and rehabilitation of Raipur FTC), are
unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders, and, therefore, would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Bidding for goods has been packaged to the
extent possible and would be procured as follows: (a) individual contracts estimated to cost US$200,000
or more would be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures; (b) individual
contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be procured using NCB procedures, acceptable to
IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.0 million; and (c) individual purchases of off-the-shelf items
may be procured, through international or national shopping procedures, in packages with an estimated
value of less than US$20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$100,000. Books and journals
estimated to cost US$10,000 would be procured directly from the publishers or their authorized agents.
Procurement of fingerlings would be carried out through national shopping or direct contracting
procedure by the communities. Except for auditors, all firms providing consultants' services would be
selected through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Auditors would be appointed
through Least-Cost Selection method.
Civil Works by DOF and LGED (US$7.60 million): Civil works executed by DOF/LGED comprise
habitat restoration, aquatic sanctuaries development, DOF office buildings, and rehabilitation of
FSMF/FTC. Tentative sites for habitat restoration and aquatic sanctuaries development have been
identified and would be finally selected in consultation with the communities after they are organized and
made aware of the benefits of the program. Civil works for these are expected to start in FY2001. Civil
works for habitat restoration would be carried out in phases in 10 sites, with the estimated cost for each
site being US$143,000. The aquatic sanctuary development would be financed by GEF in about 50 sites
in phases, and the estimated cost for the development of each site is US$4,000. The construction of DOF
office buildings and the rehabilitation of FSMF/FTC are expected to start in FY2000. These are
estimated to cost US$3.52 million. Before bids are invied for these works, DOF should have clear
possession of land.
Civil Works by BWDB (US$9.00 million): Civil works to be executed by BWDB comprise
construction of eight fish pass (about US$223,000 per site), conversion of five regulators to fish friendly



80
structures (about US$81 ,O00 per regulator), completion of four polders started under the Third Fisheries
Project, and development of one new polder. The estimated cost for the completion of the existing
polders and the development of the new polder is US$4.0 million. Before bids are invited for civil works
in the polders, agreement would be sought with the community by involving them in the design concepts,
site selection, general supervision of implementation work, and operation and maintenance. In addition,
BWDB should have clear possession of land.
Equipment and Vehicles (US$7.61 million): Equipment includes office and laboratory items, and
vehicles. Computers, cross-country vehicles, motor cycles and speedboats would be procured through
ICB procedures. As an exception to the above and as indicated in the Procurement Plan, computers and
vehicles that are urgently required for project implementation mnay be procured through NCB and
National Shopping procedures. Other equipment costing less than US$200,000 per contract may be
procured through NCB, and those costing less than US$20,000 may be procured following National or
Interniational Shopping procedures (i.e., by soliciting price quotations from at least three qualified
bidders). Books and journals estimated to cost US$10,000 would be procured directly from the
publishers or their authorized agents.
Fingerlings (US$6.0 million): Procurement of fingerlings will be carried out by the cormmunities
through national shopping with assistance of the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and NGOs. Each
community will have a Management Committee. DOF and an NGO working with the community will be
represented on the Management Committee. In order to ensure financial and quality safeguards, DOF
and NGO representatives will certify that fingerlings are supplied according to technical specifications
and on time. The government will pay the suppliers directly upon the receipt of such certification.
Consultants' Services (US$21.5 million): Major consultants' services financed by IDA and GEF
include design and supervision of habitat restoration, fish passes/regulators, polders, DOF office
buildings, and FSMF/FTC. Further, auditors would be appointed to conduct performance audits. All
firms providing consultant services, except for performnance audit, would be selected using QCBS
method. Selection of auditors would be undertaken through Least-Cost Selection method. In addition,
DFID would finance technical assistance and training, for which their procedures would be applicable.
Miscellaneous (US$8.00 million): This includes cost for incremental staff, maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, and other operating expenses. GOB's own procedures would be followed for these
expenditures.
Procurement Plan: A draft Procurement Plan has been prepared by DOF covering the total project.
Based on comments from IDAIDFID, this is being revised. The revised Procurement Plan, especially for
the procurement of fingerlings, was discussed and agreed during negotiations. The final Procurement
Plan would be included in the PIP.
Use of Standard Documents: For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) is mandatory. For NCB procurement, the implementing agencies (DOF, BWDB and
LGED) would use the SBDs for Goods (trial edition August 1997) and Works (trial edition January
1998), prepared by the Bank's Dhaka Office (BDO). The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for
Goods and Works (April 1996, modified by BDO) would be followed for submission of evaluation
reports to IDA.
Procurement Capacity Review: Procurement capacity of the three implementing agencies (DOF,
BWDB and LGED) are varied. BWDB and LGED have been executing Bank and other donor funded



81
projects and, as such, officials have acquired expertise on procurement. Although DOF was involved in
earlier IDA financed projects with support from consultants, their institutional capacity, including
procurement, needs to be further strengthened for which 1DFID is providing TA support, including
training.
IDA prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Works: IDA would carry out prior review of all goods and works contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$200,000 or more. In addition, IDA will carry out prior review of the first two
contracts for goods and works procured under NCB, irrespective of value, for each of the three
implementing agencies. All other contracts would be subject to selective post-review by IDA. Such
selective post-review of contracts below the thresholds would be carried out for approximately up to five
percent of the contracts awarded.
Services: IDA's prior review would be required for all Services contracts financed by IDA/GEF and
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firms. IDA would review the terms of
reference (TOR) for all other IDA/GEF financed consultants' services. Appointment of individual
consultants with financing from IDA/GEF is not envisaged.
Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with the Bank's
Guidelines, would be monitored on a continuous basis by IDA. As part of the Projects' planned mid-term
review in CY2001, a comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out.
Based on this assessment, in consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold and the
procurement methods.
Acceptability of NCB:
The NCB procedures followed by GOB have been reviewed and found to be generally consistent with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. However, during negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB
confirming that the following procedures, irrespective of the value of the contracts, will be adhered to:
(a)    notice inviting bids should be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper. Bidders must have at least four weeks time from the date of publication of the invitation in
the newspaper or the date of availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, for submission of
bids;
(b)    bidding documents must be made available, by mail or in person, to all who pay the required fee;
(c)    evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed by IDA;
(d)    bids shall be opened in public immediately after the deadline for submission and the bid opening
statement shall be shared with the bidders. Receiving and opening of bids at more than one place is
discouraged. If this is unavoidable, all the bids must be assembled in one place and opened in public
within one hour of the bid submission deadline;
(e)   foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, and no preference (including domestic
preference) shall be given to national bidders;



82
(f)    qualification criteria (if prequalification was not carried out) shall be disclosed in the bidding
documents.
(g)    if a registration process is used, unregistered eligible foreign bidders shall be permitted to
participate in the bidding. A foreign firm declared lowest evaluated bidder should be afforded a realistic
opportunity to register and there must be no barriers for such registration;
(h)    contract must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder;
(i)    negotiations are not permitted with the lowest evaluated bidder or with any other bidder. Under
exceptional circumstances negotiations may be made with the IDA's prior concurrence. This negotiation
will be confined to reduction in scope and/or a reallocation of risk and responsibility, which can be
reflected in a reduction of the contract price.
(j)    no bid shall be rejected on the ground of pre-established percentage (greater or less) of the
estimated cost. If, in response to a properly advertised invitation to bid, a single bid is received, it is
found to be technically responsive and the price is reasonable, such a bid should be considered for
contract award;
(k)    re-bidding shall not be carried out without IDA' s prior concurrence;
(I)    contracts based on nationally negotiated rates are not acceptable;
(m)   all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the bidding/contract
documents;
(n)    a bidder's Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor's performance security
shall apply only to the specific contract under which it was furnished. They shall not be applied by the
purchaser against any other losses unrelated to the contract;
(o)    bids should not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated
cost;
(p)    extension of bid validity is not acceptable unless justified by exceptional circumstances; and
(q)    there should not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Financial Management Arrangements and Disbursement
Financial Management
An assessment of the financial management capacity of the implementing agencies of the project (DOF,
BWDB and LGED) has been carried out to ensure that the arrangements meet IDA's requirements under
OP/BP 10.02 and the guidelines under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). As a part of
appraisal, the PIP has also been reviewed and found acceptable.
Roles & Responsibilities: The PMU, to be established under DOF, will be responsible for maintaining
the project accounts and preparing financial statements and reports for DOF part. The respective



83
BWDB's Regional Accounting Centers will maintain the project accounting records and prepare the
financial statements and reports for BWDB's part. A designated Accounts Officer in BWDB's
Directorate of Accounts will consolidate these accounts a,nd reports. LGED will also separately maintain
their project accounts for their internal requirements. But, since they will be implementing the project on
behalf of DOF, all supporting documents and vouchers will be forwarded to PMU for incorporation in the
consolidated project accounts of DOF's part. Separate Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be
prepared by PMU and BWDB, and submitted to IDA.
Staffing: DOF does not have adequate number of suitably qualified accounting staff. As agreed with
GOB, a Budget and Accounts Officer, one Accountant and support staff will be in place by August 15,
1999. Appropriate accounting staff is not available in the divisional offices of DOF and, by December
31, 1999, an Accountant will be appointed in each of its five divisional offices involved in implementing
the project. DFID will also provide technical assistance under the project. As a part of the technical
assistance, they will provide, by August 15, 1999, a Financial Management Expert (FME) for the PMU.
BWDB has an established accounting department having 525 accounting staff. By august 15, 1999, an
Accounts Officer would be designated by BWDB for consolidating the project accounts and financial
statements, and preparation of PMRs. The PIP includes an organogram showing DOF's/BWDB's
financial management staffing requirements for the proj ect and the j ob descriptions of those staff. In
addition, the terms of reference for the FME has been reviewed by IDA and included in the PIP. LGED
has adequate staff for maintaining the project accounts.
Accounting: Both DOF and BWDB maintain books of accounts manually under the cash system of
accounting. This is acceptable, provided lists of outstanding liabilities are prepared by PMU and BWDB
at the end of each quarter and reflected in the Project Balance Sheets. With technical assistance provided
by DFID, a computerized accounting system will be designed for PMU for the computerization of the
project accounts of DOF and its accounting staff will be trained to run the system. Necessary hardware
and software will be procured by March 31, 2000 and computerization is expected to be implemented by
June 30, 2000. BWDB's accounting system is being computerized under a Canadian Intemational
Development Assistance (CIDA) financed project, that is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
While LGED still maintains their accounts in the field manually, all accounts are consolidated in its
headquarter through a computerized accounting system. This system enables them to generate financial
management reports.
Internal Controls: Adequate staffing and proper segregation of duties and defined responsibilities in
PMU and BWDB will ensure the project's intemal control. Policies, procedures and guidelines to
safeguard project resources and achieve project goals and objectives are included in the PIP. The
functional/reporting relationship among units and the implementing agencies is given in the PIP. After
modernization of the financial management system under CIDA assisted project, the internal control
arrangement of BWDB will improve significantly. L(GED have adequate intemal control arrangements in
place.
Reporting System: DOF and BWDB have agreed to submit PMRs to IDA separately as per agreed
formats within 45 days from the end of each quarter. LGED's project expenditure will be incorporated in
the PMRs of DOF. The agreed formats are included in the PIP and were confirmed during negotiations.
Each PMR will include: (a) Financial Statements, comprising Sources and Uses of Funds; Usage of
Funds by Project Activities; Project Balance Sheet; Cash Withdrawals; Cash Forecasts; and Special
Account Statements; (b) Output Monitoring Reports and (c) Procurement Monitoring Reports. The
Output Monitoring Reports will be designed by the consultants financed by DFID, agreed with IDA, and
submitted from the quarter ending December 31, 1999.



84
Project Audits: Separate audit reports on project accounts will be submitted for DOF and BWDB to
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures incurred. The project expenditures of LGED will be
incorporated in the accounts of DOF and, as such, separate audit reports for LGED will not be required.
The project audit reports will include receipts and expenditures incurred through the Special Accounts
and on reimbursements claimed on the basis of SOEs. The audit report shall provide a separate opinion
as to whether the SOEs submitted during such fiscal year, together with procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. All audit reports will
be submitted to IDA within six months from the end of each financial year. The Comptroller and Auditor
General (C&AG), through its Directorate of Audit-Foreign Aided Projects (DOAFAP), will conduct the
audit of the Project Accounts, Special Accounts, and SOEs. A draft TOR for such audit has been
prepared and discussed with DOAFAP. This was agreed with GOB during negotiations.
Performance Audits: In addition to C&AG's audits, GOB agreed to undertake two independent
performance audits including review of the financial management system and verification of
procurement. The first performance audit will be carried out by September 30, 2001 [three months
before mid-term review date] while the second performance audit will be carried out by December 31,
2003. To meet these deadlines, the first auditor will be appointed by March 31, 2001, while the second
auditor will be appointed by June 30, 2003. The cost for such audits will be eligible for financing under
the Credit. A private firm of Chartered Accountants, with qualifications and TOR acceptable to IDA, will
be appointed by PMIJ to conduct such audits.
Action Plan for Improvement of Financial Management Capacity: As indicated above, both DOF
and BWDB do not have adequate financial management capacity. Further, since the accounts of DOF
and BWDB are currently maintained manually, they are not suitable to generate accurate PMRs in a
timely manner. A time bound action plan for strengthening the financial management capacity of both
the organizations has been agreed with GOB and reflected in the PIP, and is provided below. Progress in
implementation of the action plan will be closely monitored and, subject to satisfactory progress, PMR
based disbursements will be introduced by June 30, 2001 or such later date agreed with IDA.



85
ACTION PLAN
Issues/Problems                                  Agreed Actions
Inadequate Staff
Departnent of Fisheries has        By August 15, 1999, DOF will provide one Budget and Accounts
inadequate staff for project financial    Officer, one Accountant and other Support Staff.
management.
By August 15, 1999, ]DFID will provide, under their technical assistance
component, one Financial Management Specialist for the PMU.
By December 31, 1999, DOF will appoint one Accountant for each of
its five divisional offices.
BWDB needs to designate an         By August 15, 1999, BWDB will designate one Accounts Officer.
accounting staff for consolidation of
project accounts and preparation of
PMRs.
Computerization of the Accounting  By March 31, 2000, ]DOF will procure necessary hardware and
Systems of PMU and BWDB is         software.
required to generate accurate and  By June 30, 2000, PMU will computerize its Accounting system.
timely PMRs.                       By June 30, 2000, BWDB, with assistance from CIDA, will complete
computerization of its accounting system.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of IDA proceeds and the financing for the various categories of
expenditures. Preparation of withdrawal applications would be the responsibility of DOF and BWDB.
The closing date of the proposed project will be June 30, 2004. Disbursement estimates of IDA proceeds
over a five years period is presented on page 2 of the PAD. GEF funds will be used for, consulting
services and training for DOF. While consulting services and training will be financed at 100% (net of
taxes), civil works will be financed at 85% of total expenditures.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Until PMR based disbursement is agreed upon, the current disbursement procedures will be applicable for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit and GEF. IDA would require full documentation for prior review
for those cases where contracts for civil works and goods exceed US$200,000 equivalent, and for
consulting firms exceeds US$100,000. Expenditures below the above thresholds and expenditures on
incremental and operating costs would be claimed on SOEs. Disbursement for procurement of
fingerlings will be based on receipt of certification from GOB that the communities have paid their share
of the cost of fingerlings as agreed.



86
Special accounts:
To ensure timely payments to contractors, consultants, suppliers and others for IDA's share of eligible
expenses, there would be two Convertible Taka Special Accounts (SAs), one for DOF and another for
BWDB. The authorized allocations to DOF and BWDB's SAs would be limited to the equivalent of
US$ 1.50 million and US$ 1.00 million respectively. In addition, another SA in Convertible Taka for
GEF's share of eligible expenditures, to be accessed by PMU, will also be opened. The authorized
allocation will be limited to US$250,000. All these three SAs would be opened in a commercial bank,
acceptable to IDA. If, during the mid-term review, agreement is reached on PMR based disbursement,
the allocations to the respective SAs would be revised.



87
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements/a
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB              NCB            OTHERld             GEF              DFID         Total Cost
Works                                                         16.60                              0.30                             16.90
(14.11)                                                             (14.11)
(a) DOF/LGED                                              7.60                               0.30                             7.90
(6.46)                                                              (6.46)
(b) BWDB                                                 9.00                                                                9.00
(7.65)                                                              (7.65)
Goods                                       5.50              1.20              0.91                                              7.61
(2.22)           (0.96)            (0.73)                                            (3.91)
Equipment & Vehicles
(a) DOF/LGED                           5.50              1.09              0.91                                              7.50
(2.22)           (0.87)            (0.73)                                            (3.82)
(b) BWDB                                                 0.11                                                                0.11
(0.09)                                                              (0.09)
Fingerlings                                                                    6.00/b                                             6.00
(3.10)                                            (3.10)
QCBS           Least Cost                            GEF              DFID
Services                                    1.26              0.04                               4.70              15.50          21.50
(1.26)           (0.04)                                                              (1.30)
(a) DOF/LGED                           0.96              0.04                               4.70             15.50          21.20
(0.96)           (0.04)                                                              (1.00)
(b) BWDB                               0.30                                                                                  0.30
(0.30)                                                                               (0.30)
Others                                                                          9.18                                              9.18
(5.58)                                            (5.58)
DOF Incremental Staff and Op. Cost                                              8.00                                              8.00
(5.58)                                            (5.58)
BWDB Opn. and Maintenance Cost                                                 1.00/c                                             1.00
Land                                                                           0.1 8/c                                            0.18
TOTAL                                       6.76              17.84             16.09            5.00              15.50          60.8
(3.48)           (15.11)           (9.41)                                            (28.00)
/a:       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
/b:       US$2.90 million is beneficiary financing for fingerling procurement.
/c        Not financed by IDA or other donors.
/d        US$2.7 earmarked for CD/VAT out of GOB's contribution.



88
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value (Threshold)     Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to
Category                                                                  Prior Review
Works          First two contracts of each of the three   National Competitive   Prior review
implementing agencies and          Bidding
subsequently each contract valued at
US$200,00 or more
Less than US$200,000               National Competitive   Post Review
Bidding
Goods          US$200,00 or more                  International         Prior Review
Competitive Bidding
First two contracts of each of the three   National Competitive   Prior Review
implementing agencies valued at    Bidding
US$200,00 or less
Less than US$200,000              National Competitive   Post Review
Aggregate US$4.0 million           Bidding
Less than US$20,000                National or          Post Review
Aggregate US$0.10 million          International Shopping
Fingerlings    Community Participation             National Shopping or   Post Review
Direct Contracting
Services
Consulting     (a) US$ 100,000 or more             Quality- and Cost-    (a) Prior Review
Finns                                              Based Selection
(b) Less than US$100,000                                (b) Only terms of
reference
Auditors       All                                 Least-cost Selection    Only terms of reference



89
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                    Amount in US$  IDA Financing Percentage
Million
1. Civil Works:                                         85%
(a) DOF and LGED                           5.85
(b) BWDB                                   6.95
2. Goods:                                                100% of foreign expenditure,
100% of local expenditure (ex-
(a) DOF and LGED                           3.45       factory) and 80% of local
(b) BWDB                                   0.10       expenditure
3. Fingerlings                               3.05        100%  of local expenditure
(excluding      expenditures
financed by communities)
4. Consultants' Services, including Auditors:            100% (net of taxes)
(a) DOF                                    0.90
(b) BWDB                                   0.30
5. Incremental Staff and Operation and       5.00        100% on withdrawal
Maintenance                                           applications (WAs) received
before July 31, 2000,80% on
WAs received before July 31,
2001, 60% on WAs received
before July 31, 2002,and 40%
thereafter
6. Unallocated                                2.40
TOTAL                                        28.00



90
Annex 7
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$335.4                    380.6
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        12                   11
First Bank mission (identification)            05/19/1997           10/17/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    06/01/1998           09/03/1998
Negotiations                                   09/14/1998           03/08/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/30/1998           08/02/1999
Prepared by: Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock, Government of
Bangladesh, with consultancy assistance
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Grants (TF029732 and TF029638)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Benson Ateng                             Economist
Imtiazuddin Ahmad                        Operations Officer
Henry Gassner                            Principal Operations Officer
Ronald Zweig                              Senior Aquaculturalist
Lars Soeftestad                          Anthropologist
S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman                      Irrigation Engineer
Gonzalo Castro                           Biodiversity Specialist
Mozammal Hoque                           Financial Management Specialist
Nurul Alam                               Procurement Specialist
Aminul Haque                             Procurement Specialist
Mohammad Sayeed                          Disbursement Officer



91
Annex 8
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
I1.    GOB's Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD Phase:
1. Project Concept Document
2. Minutes of the PCD Review Meeting
3. Comments of Peer Reviewers
Preparation Phase:
1. Terms of Reference for Consultants .Assisting GOB in Preparing the Project
2. Terms of Reference for Preparation Missions
3. Missions' Aide Memoires
4. Follow-up Letters to GOB
5. Project Appraisal Document
6. Financial and Economic Analysis -- Spreadsheets
7. An Integrated Project Analysis
8. Project Cost Tables
9. Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing, and Budgeting Arrangements
10. Social Framework
C. Other
Project Preparation Background Papers:
1. Openwater Fisheries Management
2. Shrimp and Prawn Aquaculture
3. Coastal Aquaculture
4. Freshwater Aquaculture
5. Fisheries Extension, Training and Research
6. Institutional/Policy Reforms in the Fisheries Sector
7. Legal and Regulatory Issues
8. Environmental Assessment
9. Social Assessment
10. Fisheries Credit
11. Aquatic Animal Health Management, July 1998. Bangladesh: Fourth Fisheries
Project. Department of Fisheries. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations. Rome, Italy.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Bangladesh
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig      Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 135
Active Projects
BD-PE-9542       1990   GOB                               RURAL ELECTRIF. III                     -  0.00      105.00         0.00         17.43        9.10         0.00       S           S
DD-PE-9540       1991   GOB                                INLAND WATER TRANSP                       0.00       45.00         0.00         18.40       19.08         0.00       S          S
BD-PE-9559       1992   GOB                               TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       0.00       25.00         0.00          2.31        1.29         0.00       S           S
BD-PE-9470       1992   GOB                                FOREST RESOURCES MGM                      0.00       49.60         3.32         14.07       11.54         2.33       S          S
BD-PE-9555       1993   GOB                                FEMALE SECONDARY SCH                      0.00       68.00         0.00        26.90        12.43         7.53       s          S
BD-PE-9509       1994   GOB                               JAMUNA BRIDGE                              0.00      200.00         0.00         11.17        3.06         2.89       S          NA
BD-PE-9465       1994   GOB                                2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI                      0.00      146.80         0.00          9.41      -14.87         0.00      HS          S
BD-PE-9533       1995   GOB                               GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                         0.00      120.80         0.00        70.11        51.91        47.13       S           S
BD-PE-9496       1995   GOB                               NUTRITION                                  0.00       59.80         0.00        47.12        14.30         0.00       S           S
BD-PE-9560       1996   GOB                               NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                       0.00       10.50         0.00          8.25        1.55         0.00       S          [i
BD-PE-9545       1996   GOB                               RIVER BANK PROTECTIO                       0.00      121.90         0.00         18.71       24.33         0.00       S          S
BD-PE-9484       1996   GOB                               AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                        0.00       50.00         0.00        38.69        28.25         0.00       U          U
BD-PE-9549       1996   GOB                               COASTAL EMBANKMENT R                       0.00       53.00         0.00         17.79       18.88         0.00       S           S
BD-PE-40985      1997   GOB                                POVERTY ALLEVIATION                       0.00      105.00         0.00        44.98        --8.19        0.00      HS          HS
BD-PE-9482       1997   GOB/DWASA                          DHAKA WATER/SAN. IV                       0.00       80.30         0.00         65.34       19.43        000        U          U
BD-PE-9518       1997   GOB                                2ND RURAL RDS & MRKT                      0.00      133.00         0.00         91.22        1.13         0.00       S           S
BD-PE-44789      1998   GOB                                PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                        0.00      235.00         0.00       233.71        34.77         0.00       S          S
BD-PR-40713      1998   GOB                                SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.                      0.00        11.35        0.00         10.93        2.08         0.00       S          U
BD-PE-9550       1998   GOB                                PRIMARY EDUC DEV                          0.00      150.00         0.00       153.87        13.01         0.00       S          S
BD-PE-3785'7    1998   GOB                                 POP AND HEALTH V                          0.00      250.00         0.00       243.55       -13.00         0.00
BD-PE-63089      1999   GOB                               EMERGENCY RECOVERYCR                       0.00      200.00         0.00       202.39         0.00         0.00
BD-PE-50745      1999   GOB                               ARSENIC CONTROL                            0.00       32.40         0.00        33.55           .89        0.00       S          S
BD-PE-37294      1999   GOB                                ROAD REH. MAINT. III                      0.00      273.00         0.00       281.96         0.00         0.00
Total                                                                                                0.00   2,525.45          3.32    1,661.86        230.97        59.88
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD arid IDA):                 845.09             5,294.34            6,139.43
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              388.03               388.03
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                2,522.13             4,649.57            7,171.70
Amount sold                                         0.00                  .37                  .37
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                  .31                  .37
Total Undisbursed                 :            1,661.86                 8.27            1,670.13
0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Followir:g thie FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS   highly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U =
unsatisfactory, HU = highly urnsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Pertormarnce Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1980                  IPDC                     0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1985/95                IDLC                    0.00     .15    0.00    0.00    0.00       .15    0.00    0.00
1991                  Dynamic Textile          1.86    0.00    0.00    1.48    1.86    0.00    0.00       1.48
1996                  ICT-B                   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  ICT-W                    0.00      .38    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  DBH                      0.00     .65    0.00    0.00    0.00       .65    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   16.86    2.23    0.00    1.48    1.86    1.86    0.00    1.48
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   GRAMEEN PHONE          20.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998                  IPDC II                 10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  JALALABAD                0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  KHULNA                  22.50    3.30    0.00   29.40
1998                   LAFARGE SURMA          35.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   SCANCEM                11.00    1.25    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          98.50   32.05    0.00   29.40



94
Annex 10
Bangladesh at a glance                                                               4/27/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           South      Low-
Bangladesh      Asia  income        Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     123.6     1,281     2,036
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   360        380       350                 Life expectancy
GNP (At/as method, USS billions)                     44.1       493       712
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                      l
Population (%/6)                                      1.6       1.8       2.0
Laborforce(%)                                         2.1       2.3       2.4     GNP                              Gross
per   F-                       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  36
Urban population (% of total population)               20        27        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       58        62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                75        77        82
Child malnutnbon (% of children under 5)               68        53         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 84        81        69
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   62        49        46
Gross prmary enrollment (% of school-age population)   96       100        93                  Bangladesh
Male                                                 93       109       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              1O0        90        82
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
GDP (US$ billions)                           9.5    23.8       41.3      42.7
Gross domesic investment/GDP                17.0     19.0      214       22.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and servces/GDP             5.2      5.4      12.3      13.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.1     12.5      15.3      17.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  16.1     17.3      20.4      21.0                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  -1.8    -4.1      -2.2      -1.5      Domes.ic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      0.6       0.4       0.4     Savings
Total debt/GDP                              26.4    42.7        36.6     36.2
Total debt service/exports                  27.8    28.0        10.6      9.4
Present value of debtGDP                      ..       ..      20.9
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    129.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.0      4.7      5.4       5.2       5.6                   Bangladesh
GNPpercapita                        2.6      3.1      4.1       3.4       4.1                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and serices        4.9     14.6     16.5       12.3      9.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
(% of GOP)
Agrculture                                  33.3    27.8        23.6     22.9      s.
Industry                                    25.0     22.2      26.9      27.9    10
Manufacturing                              18.5     152       17.2      18.1     s
Services                                    41.6     50.0      49.5      49.2
Private consumption                         85.5     84.3      80.2      78.5            93   ux   rs   9s   sr   98
General govemment consumption                1.4      3.2       4.5       4.4                    001           GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                    9.1     12.0       18.4     18.9
197747  1988-98       1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                   3.6      3.4      25.2       3.0    se
Industry                                     4.3      6.9       5.6       8.3    40
Manufactuhng                                2.9      7.0       6.2       9.2
Services                                     6.2      4.2      -2.5       4.6    20
Pnvate consumption                           5.3      4.4        1.0      3.3 
General govemment consumpbon                 5.3      5.9       6.0      -0.3            so         us          97   98
Gross domestic investment                    4.4      6.1       11.6      9.5    20
Imports of goods and services                6.6     10.5      -1.7       4.5                   Exports    1Imsports
Gross national product                       5.2      4.9       5.7       5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond witl
be incomplete.



95
Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998     Inflation (I)
Domestic prices                                                                  Iso
(% change)                                                                         T
Consumer prices                               ..        .       2.5       7 0     8
ImplicitGDPdeflator                          -2.1    11.0       1.7      4.3      6
Government finance                                                                2
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                                ..     8.7       9.3       9.6            93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..      ..       2.2       2.2            -'GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -4.2      4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            11977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   1,074     4,418     5,111    s
Jute goods                                   ..    104        116       113
Leather and leather products                 ..    135        185       188    S,0Dk
Manufactures                                 ..    700       3,826    4,527
Total imports (ci)                            ..   2,620      7,120     7,525     000
Food                                         .. 413   197   350  2000                       #1 i9
Fuel and energy                4230                           361       507
Capital goods                                ..    856       2,000    1,917         .
2      94  95    97
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      54        102
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      79        100        ..              a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              68       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                464    1,301     5,096    5,781      0
Imports of goods and services                932    2,876     7,677    8,155    1|lll.l|             ll       l      f
Resource balance                            -469   -1,576    -2,581    -2,374
Net income                                   -31    -122        -91     -130
Net current transfers                        325     731      1,770     1,850
Current account balance                     -174    -966       -902      -654
1-4+
Financing items (net)                        305    1,169       582      685
Changes in net reserves                     -130    -203        320       -31       -3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..        .     1,719     1,750
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            15.5    30.6       42.7      45.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,518   10,149    15,125    15,467
IBRD                                        55      70         38       34                    0 G:175 A 34
IDA                                        505    2,985     5,701    6,014               F 130
Total debt service                           148      547       705      696         E.4471
IBRD                                         3       5          7        7                 |:6,014
IDA                                          4      35         96      105
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              0     662        736      589
Official creditors                         274     774        326      442
Private creditors                           -1        1       -28       15
Foreign investment (including Portfolio)     0        2      -120      221               D:4,132          c:272
World Bank program
Commitments                                202     415        460      646      A - LRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               88     348        299      373         - IDA    0 - Other mulUlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        9        59       65      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   88      339       241      308
Interest payments                            7      31         44       47
Net transfers                               81     308        196      261
Development Economics                                                                                              4/27/99



96
Annex 11
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
IDA concluded that the project is an Environmental Category B project since the project components were
found to have relatively limited environmental impact potential; and for those adverse impacts which could
potentially occur, there exists reasonably straightforward and understood mitigation measures which could
be applied. The Category B designation was in part derived from several studies including: (a) a detailed
Environmental Assessmentl8 (EA) of the Fisheries Sector in Bangladesh, including all of the proposed
project components; (b) a study19 of the potential disease risks to fisheries and aquaculture in Bangladesh,
including those that could result from the proposed project; and (c) an evaluation and design of a Global
Environmental Facility (GEF)-assisted program20 to forrnulate an action plan to conserve aquatic
biodiversity and to assemble an aquatic species/ecology database for Bangladesh. The reports from these
studies are in the project file. All of these studies built upon the knowledge gained in the prior three IDA-
assisted operations2l and other fisheries and aquatic resources studies. In addition, four regional and one
national workshops were held in December 1997 to review and comment on the findings in the EA.
Based on the findings and experience from the above noted studies and operations, the project was
designed to contribute to the conservation of aquatic resources while concurrently contributing to the base
knowledge required for optimal management of these resources, including sustainable production from
inland fisheries. Accordingly, the improvement in sustainable management of the aquatic environment and
fisheries in Bangladesh is one of the major objectives of the project, and the project design has been
formulated to achieve this objective to the degree possible. It would further strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Department of Fisheries(DOF), the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDP), and
the Local Government Engineering Department to conserve aquatic biodiversity and improve fish
productivity in their respective management, extension, training, and civil works activities, through training
officers and providing consultant technical assistance via the GEF supported activities.
The EA made specific recommendations on how to minimize the chance that the project components would
cause any major adverse environmental impacts that cannot be mitigated in the project design. The project
activities would not impact upon critical natural habitats in the project area.
18 Annex 9: Environmental Assessment. December 1997. Fourth Fisheries Project Preparation. Global Aquatic
Corporation Pty Ltd, Sidney Australia and Institute of Marine Sciences, Chittagong University, Chittagong,
Bangladesh.
19 Report on Aquatic Animal Health Management. July 1998. Bangladesh: Proposed Fourth Fisheries Project.
Fisheries Department. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Rome, Italy
20 GEF Project Concept Document for Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation in Bangladesh. November 1998.
21 The Oxbow Lake Project, the Shrimp Culture Project, and the Third Fisheries Project.



97
Project Setting
Bangladesh's major land forms have been characterized as floodplain areas (80%), hilly areas (12%) and
terraced areas (8%) across its 14.8 million ha. Of this 9.5 million ha are used for agriculture (64%), 6
million ha are seasonally flooded to over 30 cm. The floodplain soils are comprised of deltaic deposits
from the Jamuna, Padma, and Megna Rivers. The climate is sub-tropical characterized by a west monsoon
from May to the end of September and dry northeast wind from November to mid-March. Maximum air
temperatures occur in April-May (35-45 degree C) and minimum temperatures occur in December-January
(5-12 degrees C). The annual rainfall varies across the country with an average from about 1,200 mm in
the west to 6,000 mm in the northeast with maximum reported rainfall of up to 13,000 mm in some eastern
areas. The country is also affected by pre- and post-monsoon cyclonic storms.
Bangladesh is endowed with vast fish resources. The total fish production of the country is about 1.3
million metric tons out of which inland fisheries contribute almost 80% (0.99 million metric tons). About
12 million people depend directly or indirectly on inland fisheries. Fish and fisheries provide 60% of the
national protein, 8% of export earnings, and 3% of GDP. The importance of fisheries in Bangladesh is
clearly very large, and given its strategic importance for food security and national development, the
fisheries sector has received considerable attention. Since independence, the Department of Fisheries
(DOF) has implemented a series of development projects with the assistance of various donors, aimed at
supporting the fisheries sector while increasing the incomes of poor people.
Freshwater biodiversity, however, has been substantially impacted because of the high population densities
throughout the country, pollution, and the heavy exploitation of inland fish resources. In addition, many
natural freshwater habitats, ecological processes, and hydrological cycles have been altered through
interference of the large-scale engineering works for agriculture, flood control, and road projects.
The project would be implemented at selected sites throughout the country.
Potential Impacts, Prevention, Monitoring and Mitigation
There are no potential significant adverse environmental impacts that could occur as a result of the
proposed project. With proper implementation per the project design, the components would all either have
a benign or a beneficial impact on the environment. The components to be closely monitored are some of
the inland open-water fisheries management sub-components, coastal shrimp aquaculture, and freshwater
aquaculture extension and training. The specific environmental aspects are discussed below.
Inland Open Water Fisheries Management. The main environmental aspects for this component pertain
to the stocking of floodplains and sanctuaries with fingerlings. The issues pertain to the following:
(a) possible adverse impacts on indigenous biodiversity due to the potential introduction of exotic
species;
(b) potential adverse impacts upon non-stocked species due to introduction of large numbers of the few
stocked species released in open waters;
(c) potential adverse impacts on genetic diversity of stocked indigenous species due to introduction of
large numbers of hatchery-produced fingerlings derived from a limited gene pool;
(d) possibilities of pathogen transmission to wild stocks due to stocking of diseased fingerlings; and
(e) potential change in hydrology within polders in which fish passes, fish friendly regulators, and
habitat restoration would be established.
Otherwise, the sanctuary establishment, fish pass construction and operation of fish friendly regulators, and
habitat restoration activities proposed under the inland open water fisheries management component would
have clear beneficial impacts on aquatic biodiversity in the areas taken up under the project. They would



98
provide and re-open migration routes between rivers, canals, and floodplains and would create protected
habitats for aquatic species spawning and nurturing of juveniles. The proposed Hilsa Management sub-
component under the Aquatic Resources Development, Management, and Conservation Studies
(ARDMCS) component would also work toward the improved management of the hilsa and other aquatic
species in the Megna River, by limiting the fishing gear to non-destructive types. The impact of the
program would also be monitored under the ARDMCS. The ARDMCS would be supported by the GEF
under the project.
Stocking of Exotic Species. The project would not support stocking of exotic fish species in open inland
waters during the first two years of the project. The project would only support the stocking of the native
rui (Labeo rohita), the catla (Catla catla), and the mrigal (Cirrhinus mrigala) during the initial two years.
A study will be conducted during that time period to determine whether the introduction of exotic species in
large numbers in inland open waters would pose a danger to aquatic biodiversity. For context, many exotic
fish species have been and are used in aquaculture and open water fisheries enhancement programs, since
at least the 1960s. Many fish over the years have been stocked in aquaculture ponds and often during
seasonal floods and especially extraordinary flood years when many escape into the wild. The inland
waters of Bangladesh are thus highly perturbed from the standpoint of the introduction of exotics.
Nevertheless, a cautionary approach is being taken until its is determined from available data and studies
that the introduction of exotic species does not cause a significant adverse incremental impact to
Bangladesh waters. Should a decision be reached that the experience shows that the incremental impact of
introducing exotic species would be negligible in the context of Bangladesh's inland waters and that
individual communities would desire to stock them on a pilot basis, the project's ARDMCS would
quantitatively monitor and verify whether the assumptions were correct. The main species that would be
considered would be the common carp that is currently cultured in many areas of the country. Adjustments
would be made to the stocking program based on the findings of this study.
Stocked Fish Species Impact on Non-stocked Species. Under the project, as noted above, fingerlings of
indigenous species would be stocked in inland floodplain waters. The concern about this activity is that
with the stocking of large numbers of fingerlings of the commercial species noted above, this stocking
could cause an adverse impact to the other non-stocked species many of which are caught and consumed by
subsistence fishers. Under the Third Fisheries Project (TFP), it was found that the stocking of commercial
species resulted in significant increases in production of stocked and non-stocked species. The apparent
reasoni for this was that, with the stocking program, the Fish Conservation Act that restricts the catch of the
stocked fingerlings (below 23 cm) also had a spillover effect on the non-stocked species. The effect was
that all species were able to grow to larger size and also increased their rates of survival early in the
floodplain fisheries production season. Although this was not quantified on a species-by-species basis
under the TFP, under the ARDMCS component of the proposed Fourth Fisheries Project (FFP), monitoring
would be done to assess the impacts of stocking on aquatic biodiversity and productivity on a species-by-
species basis. Also, by shifting from an annual leasing system of key fishing areas (jalmohals) to a gear-
based licensing system, the fishing community apparently better managed the fishery due to elimination of
the incentive under the leasing system to overexploit the resource each year. Also, under the proposed
FFP, since the community would be directly involved in managing and paying for the stocking activities as
demonstrated under the TFP, the communities would have a greater interest in optimizing fish production
on a long-term basis, since the licensing system would be established for seven-year periods. Subject to
review, it could be extended in future by seven-year increments. All of the above would in part be the
prerequisites for the project to assist with the stocking program.
Genetic Diversity. Concern has been expressed over potential adverse impacts to the genetic diversity of
the indigenous species stocked in open waters. The specific issue is that the stocked fingerlings are derived
from a. relatively small gene pool of the parent brood stock used in hatcheries. The numbers of fingerlings
stocked that are not caught and survive to breeding size could cause a narrowing of the genetic diversity of



99
future generations. The concern is predicated on the assumption that the wild fish populations have been so
decimated that the stocked fingerlings would result in being a significant portion of their respective
populations. There is no evidence that this occurred in Bangladesh as a result of earlier stocking programs.
Nevertheless, a comprehensive monitoring program under ARDMCS that would include genetic mapping
of the species stocked and those subsequently caught, particularly at the end of the dry season to determine
whether the genetic diversity of the surviving population is narrowed. In addition, it would be encouraged
under the project that the seed for fingerlings stocked be derived from hatcheries that collect their brood
stock from the wild rather than using the same parent fish for several years.
Disease Transmission. Concern has been raised over the possibility that diseased fingerlings that are
released could spread disease to other wild fish in the vicinity. One particular disease, Epizootic Ulcerative
Syndrome (EUS) could be spread in this manner; however, FAO has determined that it is highly unlikely
that this particular disease could be spread in this manner. Nevertheless, it is possible that a hatchery or
fingerling rearing farm could be a point source of disease. If disease were to be introduced in this manner,
it would not only affect the non-stocked fishes but also the stocked fishes as well. This would be of serious
concern to the communities investing in the stocking program. The project would provide training in and
support for disease diagnosis to DOF officers, NGO staff, and community members involved in the
stocking activities. All fingerlings would be screened in advance of stocking. Fish disease in selected
stocked and non-stocked floodplains would be monitored under the ARDMCS.
Changes in Hydrology. With the installation of fish passes and fish friendly regulators and the restoration
of aquatic habitats, the hydrological condition may be changed to some degree over the current situation.
All of these interventions would increase the amount and duration of water flow into the embanked flood
control areas, allowing fish to migrate in and out of the embanked areas. These measures would also return
these areas to the more natural condition prior to the construction of the flood control embankments or
silting up of channels, and increase the aquatic biodiversity and productivity in the affected areas, as
demonstrated under on-going pilot operations (FAP 6 and 20, and Center for Natural Resources Studies
(CNRS)/Ford Foundation). This could affect the areas presently under agriculture by causing somewhat
earlier flooding and possibly earlier drainage. To mitigate the possibility of this being considered
objectionable to the affected people, each intervention would be discussed with the potentially affected
communities (fishers and farmers) to gain understanding on whether these activities would be welcome.
This would further be affirmed by each community's willingness and commitment to contribute to the
operation and maintenance costs of their respective sub-component(s).
Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture. Several environmental issues specifically pertain to shrimp farming under
the conditions of coastal Bangladesh. The project areas (polders) that would be developed under the
project at present all have shrimp farming practiced on a seasonal basis alternating with rice (southwest)
and or salt (southeast). No new areas would be developed under the project, for the purpose of the project
is to improve the productive and environmental management of shrimp farming at the selected sites. All
shrimp farming activities would be the improved extensive type with gross production generally not
expected to exceed 400 kg-shrimp/ha/yr. Therefore, only areas would be developed that presently have
seasonal fluctuations in salinity and where shrimp farming would not have any incremental impacts on
cattle rearing, agriculture, tree crops, or drinking water supplies. In addition, the project would finance the
completion and new construction, as needed, of BWDDB approved sluice gates for water intake in the
shrimp farming areas to replace the existing farmers' illegal cuts through embankments which weaken the
storm protection capacity of the embankments. It is important to note that prior to the construction of the
embankments, the enclosed areas had been under a seasonal salinity fluctuation with near freshwater
conditions during the rainy season and brackish water conditions during the dry season. The storm
protection embankments created a year round freshwater environment, having eliminated the seasonal
brackish water habitat for the nurturing of larvae that require shallows with this salinity. The project to
some degree would re-establish the more natural conditions. The engineering would also assure that more



100
farmers culturing shrimp away from the perimeter of the polders would also have better access to brackish
water.
The environmental issues that the project would address and resolve are that:
(a) the shrimp culture period does not extend into the rice growing period reducing the time needed for
paddy to mature; and
(1b) the collection of wild shrimp seed is done as efficiently as possible to reduce the fishing pressure
on shrimp larvae and to reduce the adverse impact of the present collecting practices on other
larvae.
Growing Period. Under the project, development would only take place in blocks where at least 80% of the
land-owning farmers agree to covering the operation and maintenance costs of the sluice gates serving their
respective block. These land owners are all involved in rice cultivation which would help assure that the
shrimp farming period does not extend into the rice growing season. In the past, many farmers leased their
land to outsiders during the shrimp growing period, and these lessees, much wealthier individuals, would
not relinquish the leased areas in a timely manner due to their desire to grow the shrimp as large as
possible. This created conflicts between the land owners and the lessees and among the land owners
themselves.
Shrimp Seed Collection. A major issue concerning shrimp farming is the supply of shrimp seed in
Bangladesh. Due to adverse conditions (low seasonal temperature and salinity) for cost-effective brackish
water shrimp hatchery development, few hatcheries have come into operation; and most farmers are
dependent upon seed collected from the wild by about 300,000 shrimp seed collectors. Under the project,
two activities would address this issue. The first would be a component for training about 29,500 shrimp
seed collectors in improved collection methods that minimize the harm to the shrimp seed itself and to the
larvae of other species. In addition, training would be provided to about 500 shrimp seed traders on the
best method for transport of shrimp seed to farmers, assuring better survival. The second aspect would be a
study under the ARDMCS to assess what impact the shrimp seed collection activities has on aquatic
biodiversity in coastal areas and whether the improved collection methods would better conserve
biodiversity. On this aspect, there is an assumption based on the high intensity of seed collection that the
shrimp seed collection activity is highly destructive to aquatic biodiversity. The results of the study would
also suggest means to reduce the impacts.
Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training. The issues pertaining to the intensification freshwater
aquaculture are similar to those for open water stocking, particularly concerning (a) the escape of exotic
species, plus the potential pollution that could result from pond effluents. Intensification of fish culture
(b) in ponds can also increase their level of eutrophication, making the water less usable for washing of
clothes and dishes or in some cases for drinking purposes. Another recently identified issue in the country,
has been the identification of high concentrations of arsenic (c) in groundwater which could possibly bio-
accumulate in fish. Generally, the result of project activities would have virtually no incremental adverse
environmental impacts, since aquaculture is practiced in ponds throughout the country.
Escape of Fish. The escape of exotic or indigenous species from fish ponds would be an unusual
occurrence, for ponds are designed under average flooding conditions to retain the fish. Otherwise,
frequent (annual) losses would make them financially non-viable.
Water Quality. As part of the extension and training activities under this component, farmers would-be
informed of the potential environmental impacts that intensification of fish culture in ponds can have.
Concerning the increased eutrophication, this can also be a benefit, for if crops grown beside the ponds are
irrigated with fertile ponds water, the plants would get the added benefit of these nutrients for their growth.



101
Arsenic. Fish ponds in Bangladesh are rarely filled using groundwater. They are mostly filled with
seasonal rain water and are dug sufficiently deep to have adequate depth through the dry season for year
round fish growth. Farmers would be informed not to use groundwater for filling or topping off ponds
unless the groundwater is tested to have safe levels of arsenic for fish culture purposes or it is determined
that arsenic accumulation in fish under the aquaculture methods practiced in Bangladesh is not a concern.
Institutional Arrangements
It would further strengthen the institutional capacity of the Department of Fisheries, the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDP), and Department of Local Governments and Rural Development to conserve
aquatic biodiversity and improve fish productivity in their respective management, extension, training, and
civil works activities. These agencies are relatively weak in their knowledge of and capacity to design
projects to conserve aquatic biodiversity and sustain concurrently increase and sustain fisheries
productivity. Accordingly, the proposed institutional and implementation arrangements for the
enviromnental aspects of the project can be found in item 4 of Section C of this PAD. The institutional
strengthening would be achieved through training officers in the respective agencies and providing
consultant technical assistance via the GEF supported activities. The technical assistance would be
provided by teams of expatriate and national consultants who would directly provide and train officers in
the above agencies, NGOS, and project beneficiaries. The technical consultants directly involved in
environmental monitoring and assessment would include three expatriate consultants [an Aquatic
Biodiversity Specialist (inland), an Aquatic Biodiversity Specialist (coastal), and a Genetic Diversity
Specialist] and three national Aquatic Biodiversity Specialists assessing impacts of shrimp seed collection
on coastal aquatic biodiversity, habitat restoration and fish pass developments, and hilsa conservation and
management. The national specialists would be recruited for the full five-year project period and would be
supported under the GEF component. The expatriate Aquatic Biodiversity Specialist (inland), Aquatic
Biodiversity Specialist (coastal), and Genetic Diversity Specialist would be recruited for 60,12, and 36
man-months, respectively They would also be required to conduct training courses in the country with the
assistance of the DFID-supported Training Specialist. The respective TORs of the above consultants can
be found Annex - of Project Implementation Plan. The various specialists would be supported by
enumerators.



102
Annex 12
Bangladesh
Fourth Fisheries Project
Social Assessment
Introduction
One of the special emphases of the proposed project is rural poverty alleviation. However, experience with
earlier projects, in particular Third Fisheries Project (TFP), shows that increased production alone does not
necessarily guarantee a reduction in poverty, and equity aspects of increased production need to be
addressed. The various negative trends identified have to be addressed simultaneously. By itself, the
management of fisheries exploitation may increase poverty if alternatives are not made available to poor
resource-users. The positive effects of management on the resource may be limited if those resources, and
their habitat, are not rehabilitated at the same time. Enhancement of the resource to compensate the effects
of overexploitation may also have little poverty impact if access and control of resources for the poor are
not assured. On the other hand, "too much" access can lead to overexploitation again if appropriate
controls on fishing effort are not introduced. Management may mean changing patterns of resource control
that rnay, in turn, require an amenable policy environment and adequate management capabilities among
the people and institutions concerned. The earlier experience also shows that proper management of
fisheries resources in Bangladesh does not lie in the technical, administrative, and financial/economic areas
alone. Equally important are cultural, institutional and social aspects, especially as they relate to the
cultural/social--as well as legal--bases for granting access to, and use rights to, natural resources. Thus, the
project design puts a great deal of emphasis on access to productive resources by the poor, including
institutionalizing community-based management of these resources.
The project's social development goals would be achieved through targeted activities in the individual
components. Project design, implementation, and operation would follow a collaborative management
(also referred to as co-management) system that integrates all key stakeholders in the project. This Annex
presents and discusses social assessment under the following headings: background, objectives, methods,
findings, and recommendations. Specifically, the Collaborative Management Model is presented and
discussed under the heading methods.
Background: A Framework for Social Assessment
Social assessment provides a framework for incorporating social analysis and participation into the design
and delivery of the project. As a process it provides an integrated and participatory framework for
prioritizing, gathering, analyzing, and using operationally relevant social information. Social assessment
would serve several purposes in the project: (i) identification of key stakeholders, and establishing a
framework for their participation in project design and implementation; (ii) ensuring that project objectives
and incentives for change are acceptable to the range of people intended to benefit, and that key social
differences are reflected in design of the project; (iii) assessing the social impact of the project and, in the
case of adverse impacts, determining how they can be overcome or at least mitigated; and, (iv) developing
capacity at the appropriate level to enable participation, resolve conflict, permit service delivery, and carry
out necessary mitigation measures. The framework for social assessment in the proposed project serves
two functions: firstly, social assessment was used as a guidance into project preparation and, secondly,
throughout project implementation it will become part of an ongoing process of monitoring and evaluation.
Social Factors. Information was collected on a number of factors in the project areas to do a social.
analysis and to assist in project design. The information collected included: (i) demographicfactors,
including number of people, location, and population densities; (ii) social diversity, that is, access to power
and resources as influenced by, for example gender, social status (resulting from differences in class,



103
religion and caste), and geographic location; (iii) socio-economic determinants, that is, factors that affect
incomes and productivity such as risk aversion, land tenure, access to productive inputs and markets, and
family composition and access to wage opportunities; (iv) social organization, that is, social organization at
the household and community level affects participation in local level institutions and access to services;
(v) socio-political context, that is, the socio-political context may affect development goals, control over
resources, the priorities of implementing agencies, and commitment to project objectives; and, (vi) needs
and values, that is, development interventions will be adopted if they are needed and wanted and consistent
with beneficiary and stakeholder attitudes and values, or, where conflicts exist, if adequate mechanisms are
put in place to promote awareness and provide incentives for change.
Stakeholders. There are several categories of stakeholders in the project, including the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB), Department of Fisheries (DOF), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the private
sector and the rural fishing communities in the project area. In the latter category the proposed project
distinguishes between beneficiaries, that is, people active in fishing in one capacity or another, and affected
groups, who may not be beneficiaries but may be affected in one way or another. The latter sub-category
will include the poor and the landless, and women and children.
Social assessment was carried out as part of the project preparation process, with the assistance of local and
international consultants funded by a Japanese PHRD grant and DFID. Social assessment methods used
during project preparation included: field visits, participatory observation, open-ended interviews, and desk
reviews. The social assessment process and findings were based on work done for TFP, and also included
experiences from projects implemented by other donors, including Asian Development Bank. Social
assessment will be ongoing throughout the project.
As part of the ongoing social assessment during implementation, further data collection methods, including
quantitative ones, would be utilized.
Objectives
One of the lessons from past fisheries projects in Bangladesh is that the full participation of all principal
stakeholders at all stages is critical in developing successful fisheries management and development
programs. There has been extensive consultation, collaboration, and information sharing between DOF and
other government ministries and agencies, beneficiaries/community groups, private sector, NGOs,
academic institutions, and donor agencies during the identification and preparation of the project. A series
of participatory workshops that included all categories of stakeholders have been conducted at the local,
thana, district, divisional, and national levels to share information with key stakeholders and to seek their
views on project design.
The project is also designed in a way that would ensure that primary stakeholders/resource-users play a
central role in identifying, planning and implementing management solutions and in monitoring the
distribution of benefits that they might generate. In some cases this might mean the development of new
local-level institutions (such as Beel Management Committees in the context of TFP) to manage a
particular resource or group of resources and bring together concerned stakeholders. In other cases,
existing local institutions, whether formal or informal, may already exist and be able to play key roles. The
project design therefore pays particular attention to the inclusion and representation of vulnerable groups,
such as the very poor and women, to ensure that their concerns are accommodated and that they share in
the benefits generated by improved management.
The proposed project recognizes that management measures aiming at improving the sustainability of open-
water fisheries will almost always have some costs for some people. These costs may be particularly heavy
for poor rural fishers or other groups dependent on fisheries resources. This makes it particularly important



104
that consensus on management priorities be achieved and the mechanisms for bearing and mitigating costs
set up to ensure that the needs of the poor are addressed. This highlights the importance of full stakeholder
participation at all stages of the process. All stakeholders need to see the process of open-water
management as a process where they work together with outside agencies to achieve goals that they have
set for themselves.
Methods: The Collaborative Management System
A collaborative management (also referred to as co-management) system would be the key tool for project
delivery. This system would integrate all key stakeholders in the project in relationships that are based
upon an assessment of comparative advantages. There are three fundamental relationships in the system:
(i) internal to the community; (ii) between the community and a local agent, usually an NGO; and,
(iii) between the community and/or the NGO on the one hand, and the regional and national levels on the
other hand. These relationships would consist of different kinds of resources that would flow one way or
both ways, including: knowledge, information, funds, training, etc.
This system can build upon local values and institutional mechanisms to some extent. The experience that
will guide in its construction are mostly new, and would come from, e.g., TFP as well as ongoing
experiences by NGOs. The general collaborative management model, applicable to all the project's
components, consist of different categories of stakeholders that are linked horizontally and vertically. The
relationships between the key stakeholders are outlined and discussed below.
Local Level, Horizontal Relationships Internal to the Community. The horizontal aspect of the
collaborative management system consists of relationships between people on the local level, as well as
institutional mechanisms. As far as this aspect of the collaborative management system is concerned, some
cultural values may come into play to the extent that they will support the system. This will, in particular,
be the case within communities. Given that bona fide members of the collaborative management system on
the local level will be fishermen, it is not likely that there will be large internal differences in socio-
economic standing and status. The proposed Beel Management Committees (BMC) are a case in point of
local management to be established that, in this way, might build upon and benefit from local values and
practices. Given that the project would be operating in a situation with large differences between resource
availability and needs, chances for conflict between socio-economic strata, along lines of caste, gender or
religion, within or between communities, is a calculated risk. For example, the emphasis of involving
women in fisheries related activities will, in the context of Bengali culture, not be able to build upon
traditional values, and the potential for conflict within communities and/or between gender needs to be
given attention. The project would, in close collaboration with the selected local-level NGOs, raise the
awareness of the potential for, or likely implications of, involving women as direct beneficiaries.
Furthermore, the gender aspects of project delivery would be specifically targeted in the ongoing social
assessment during implementation.
Local Level, Horizontal Relationships Involving the Community. Extending the collaborative
management system to include the relations between community organizations like, e.g. the BMCs, on the
one hand, and NGOs on the other hand, there are few if any cultural precedents that can guide the content
and function of this relationship. There is, however, a wealth of experiences accumulated over the last 2-3
decades by NGOs working on the local level, and this is beginning to yield clear conclusions as to what
works - and why, as well as what doesn't work - and why. However, this wealth of experience is largely
confined to the agricultural sector. Applied and local level work with fishing communities is fairly recent,
and the experiences from this work are still emerging.
Regional/national Level, Vertical Relationships. This would include vertical relationships between local
fishing communities and local (regional) NGOs on the one hand, and the nation state on the other hand.



105
The latter will be represented primarily by DOF (whether directly or through their regional offices), but
also MOFL and MOL, and supported by donors. As a result of experiences in TFP, individual NGOs
selected to work in the project will relate directly to DOF, as opposed to through an intermediary link.
Beyond the individual community, an effort will be made to ensure that communities and NGOs in
different localities, water bodies and regions can communicate and exchange experiences.
Monitoring Indicators. Monitoring indicators would include: (i) access to increased fish production,
(ii) degree of sustaining community-based management institutions; (iii) effectiveness of local NGOs in
collaborating with fishermen; (iv) increased rural employment opportunities; and (v) increased income in
fishermen households.
Findings: Social Issues in the Project Components
Various components of the project have been assessed with regard to their likely social impact, both
positive and negative. Results of the social assessment are summarized below.
Component 1: Open-Water Fisheries Management
The overall strategy for inland open-water fisheries management provides the local fishing communities
with a variety of options to address the problems facing the sub-sector through different management
measures consisting of stocking, habitat restoration, establishment of fish sanctuaries, construction of fish
passes or a combination of these options. The unifying feature of these interventions would be the central
role of communities in determining the appropriateness of different management measures and the
subsequent assumption of responsibility for their management and, eventually, their costs. The
communities, with technical guidance from the DOF, Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), and
Local Government Engineering Department (LGED) and NGO assistance on social issues, would be
allowed to choose which of these options or combination of options is most appropriate for their
circumstances. The communities would be fully involved not only in the selection of options, but also in
their design and implementation.
Fisheries Stock Enhancement. TFP experience shows that stocking of floodplains with fingerlings can
have a combination of positive and negative impacts, especially on the poorer resource users. The nature of
the impact depends on a complex interplay of factors in which social and management aspects are clearly
of paramount importance. Given this experience, the proposed project places emphasis on the development
of appropriate management mechanisms at the community level. The stocking density and the species
composition would largely be decided by the community. In the context of inland open-water fisheries
management, the community is made up of a group of direct resource users and a series of other
stakeholders who have a more indirect interest in the resource. In Bangladesh, the resource users are a
diverse group with quite different sets of interests and priorities. For example, traditional fishermen have
different concerns and patterns of use to occasional fishers. Both may be poor, but their way of using the
resource is different and fingerling stocking would have different impacts on them. Kua (pits dug in the
floodplains where fish tends to congregate as flood water recedes at the end of the monsoon season)
owners, farmers, boatmen, and fish traders are all potential stakeholders who may have an interest in
stocking. The proposed project takes a community-based management strategy because such a strategy
would create a mechanism to accommodate the diverse interests of these groups in the management
process.
The emphasis in the fisheries stock enhancement sub-component would be on the smaller water bodies (up
to 3,000 ha water area) where fishing communities can be more easily organized into groups to manage
project activities, hence ensuring that the benefits are available directly to fishermen and are equitably
distributed. The TFP experience also shows that NGOs can play a critical role in helping organize fishing



106
communities to ensure access to water bodies. Hence an NGO would be recruited to work with each
community in advance of the stocking program. The first year's stocked floodplains would largely be
selected from those areas stocked under TFP. An NGO would work with each community for at least a
period of six months before the stocking program starts. For new floodplains, a full year's monitoring and
NGO assistance would need to be conducted and provided, respectively, in advance of stocking.
Habitat Restoration. Project design provides for creating mechanisms beforehand in communities to
resolve possible conflicts that may arise from attempts to restore fish habitat. For example, people growing
crops in silted up beels and canals may be negatively affected by the re-excavation program and they would
need to be compensated in some way even though the re-excavation would be on khas (public) land. How
this should be done would be negotiated at the community level, provided that strong management
mechanisms are in place, where all stakeholders are represented and involved. As in the case of floodplain
stocking, an NGO would be required to be present in the area to establish if there is community support for
and willingness to participate in the activity. This component (like fish passes, see below) which would
promote the in-migration of fish would increase the proportion of smaller fish sizes, to the benefit of
subsistence fishermen. Re-excavation of canal and beels would also provide an important source of income
for groups of targeted poor, including women, who are usually employed in earthworks.
Fisb Passes and Fish Friendly Regulators. The site selection for fish passes and regulators would have to
take into account the feasibility of establishing workable management mechanisms. These would have to
mediate between the varied, and often conflicting, interests of different water user groups within the
command area. A commitment from the community to cover operation and maintenance costs would be a
prerequisite for implementation of this component at any particular site. As in the other sub-components of
the open-water fisheries component of the project, NGOs would be called upon to work with communities
in analyzing options for the water management mechanisms and establishing appropriate committees.
Aquatic Sanctuaries. In view of the economic and social consequences of permanently banning fishing
over an extended period of time in large water bodies to be declared aquatic sanctuaries, the serious
problems of enforcing such a ban, and the likely sustainability after the credit closes, it was decided to
delineate only a portion of the fished area of a particular water body as a sanctuary for the natural spawning
and nurturing of fish. This would ease the difficulties of restricting fishing by regulation and of finding
alternative livelihoods for the people affected in the reserved area. Protection would be organized and
provided on a voluntary basis by local fishermen. Communities would be responsible for managing the
sanctuaries. An NGO would be appointed to work with each community in identifying appropriate site and
mechanisms for managing the sanctuaries.
Component 2: Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture
Social problems have arisen in shrimp farming where much wealthier individuals, often from outside the
local community, attempt to enforce their own priorities for management on local farmers. Land for shrimp
culture has, on occasions, been expropriated by such individuals at the expense of small landowners. This
has led to smallholders either being excluded from shrimp farming or being unable to practice mixed
shrini1p and rice farming. There have also been many cases where farmers leased their land to outsiders
during the shrimp growing period, and these lessees, much more powerful individuals, would not relinquish
the leased areas in a timely manner due to their desire to grow the shrimp as large as possible. This has
created conflicts between the land owners and the lessees and among the land owners themselves. The
component would aim at addressing, among others, some of the social problems facing this rapidly
developing sub-sector and which undermine its sustainability. The thrust in the shrimp development
component would be on helping smaller landowners to participate more directly in shrimp farming. Under
the project, development would only take place in blocks where at least 80% of the land-owning farmers
agree to covering the operation and maintenance costs of the sluice gates serving their respective block.



107
These land owners are all involved in rice cultivation which would help assure that the shrimp farming
period does not extend into the rice growing season.
Brackish water needed for shrimp cultivation, if not properly separated from neighboring fields, can make
adjacent paddy fields more saline, in some cases making them unfit for crop production and leading to
conflicts between shrimp and rice cultivation. Conversion of reclaimed paddy land to brackish water
aquaculture by illegal cutting of embankrnents has caused violent conflicts over land tenure and use rights
in some coastal areas. Proper infrastructure combined with adequate management mechanisms can resolve
some of these conflicts and reduce negative social and environmental impacts. Past efforts to do this have
often been marred by poor design and construction and a failure to take social and institutional aspects into
consideration. The involvement of local resource-users at all stages, both in designing appropriate
structures and managing them is critical if the concerns and priorities of all stakeholders are to be
accommodated.
The proposed project recognizes that for any intervention to be appropriate, the process would need to be
community-led in much the same way that the inland open-water fisheries management component would
be community-led. Community consultation and organization with the assistance of an experienced NGO
is the foundation upon which this component would be implemented and is based upon prior experience in
the sub-sector. Any civil works would be preceded by agreement with the community involving them in
the design concepts, site selection, general supervision of implementation work, and operation and
maintenance.
The training sub-component for shrimp fry collectors has potential in terms of direct gender impacts.
While women would be encouraged to participate as much as possible in all project activities, the
component most directly benefiting women would be the training in shrimp fry collection, an activity which
provides employment to tens of thousands of poor women in the coastal areas. Because of the limited
requirements in terms of skills and equipment required :for fry collection, it has attracted the involvement of
many poor people for whom it has come to represent either an important supplement to their incomes or
their sole source of livelihood. Many women and children are known to be actively involved in fry
collection. Unfortunately, despite the scarcity and high price of the product, the catch methods used,
inappropriate handling and poor transportation all resultz in colossal wastage. Promoting more
environmentally friendly collection techniques will help to make their livelihoods sustainable. Any work
with the fry collector community would have to be initiated by participatory appraisals of the communities
involved to identify possible avenues for action to improve shrimp fry collection methods and reduce the
damaging effects of the trade. A training program for shrimp fry collectors would be developed, aimed at
reducing wastage of both the fry resource and non-target organisms by promoting improved collection,
handling and transportation methods for the fry. This training program would be developed in close
consultation with concerned agencies working in the area and with experience of the fry collector
communities. Care would be taken to identify improved methods that are accessible to poor fry collectors.
Where additional expense or effort is required in the use of improved methods, means of encouraging fry
collectors to adopt them would need to be developed. These would be discussed and identified in
consultation with concemed agencies and the fry collectors themselves.
The expected target population for this training would up to 29,500 post-larvae collectors and 500 post-
larvae and prawn fry traders. These would be trained and low cost equipment developed for temporary
storage of shrimp post-larvae at the collection centers as well as scientific transportation of the post-larvae
to the farming areas.



108
Component 3: Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training
There are usually questions about social impacts of demonstration activities. Experience from aquaculture
extension/demonstration programs suggests that ponds tend to be chosen on the basis of those that would
produce results. These are usually bigger and better ponds owned by wealthier individuals. The small
borrow pits and ditches which are more likely to be available to the poorer people for aquaculture tend to
be ignored. Also, the kind of resources and attention devoted to demonstration ponds can rarely be
replicated by poorer sections of the community.
Inland freshwater aquaculture often results in social conflicts as a consequence of water becoming unusable
for various other purposes due to the use of manure and fertilizers, and non-availability of pond water for
other purposes such as irrigation. In the case of baors, beels, haors, and lakes conflicts may arise between
farmers and fishermen because the farmers want to drain these water bodies to form agricultural land, or
use the water to irrigate land, while the fishermen prefer to keep the water for fishing.
These shortcomings are recognized in the proposed project. The extension component would concentrate
on promoting improved practices in smaller ponds (down to 1 bigha). For example, the smaller ponds and
borrow pits could be used for fingerling production managed by poor people including women. The open-
water stock enhancement program would create significant demand for fingerlings which would need, as
far as possible, to be met locally. A program of pond-side training for groups of women and men using
smaller ponds, pens, and cages could be developed to provide an additional income generation option in the
communities. The proposed community approach would assist in resolving some of the social problems,
for example, the community agreeing on measures to protect pond water used for domestic purposes.
There are hundreds of university graduates in fisheries and biological field in the country who are
unemployed. The component would directly absorb 200 subject-matter specialists. They would be trained
and used as extension agents in this component of the project. Increased aquaculture activities are also
expected to create job opportunities in the rural areas.
Component 4: Aquatic Resource Development and Conservation Studies
This component is not expected to have any adverse social impacts. The results of the proposed studies
would assist in planning the sector's future development. They would be used to develop policy
recommendations and prepare strategic and technical action plans. An important tool to be used would be a
freshwater biodiversity database to integrate, monitor and manage existing information, plan future
activities and prioritize areas for action, assess dynamics and changes in freshwater ecosystems, evaluate
and measure impacts on, as well as of, human activities, etc. The information generated would be used to
fine-tune project activities during the life of the project, develop new policies, and serve as the basis for
future fisheries projects preparation and implementation.
Implementation of a hilsa conservation and management plan towards the latter part of the project period,
woulld, however, be expected to create some hardship for those who currently catch juvenile hilsa (known
asjatka). It is estimated that over 3,700 metric tons of jatka are being captured illegally by fishermen in
violation of the Fish Act. This short-term loss would be more than compensated since it is estimated that if
10% of illegal fishing were stopped, there would be an incremental production of over 23,000 metric tons
per year. Since hilsa is the single most important fish species in Bangladesh, measures for its sustainable
management and conservation are essential.



109
Component 5: Institutional Support
The two forms of assistance envisaged under this component - activities that are directly necessary to
implement the project and activities intended for the long-term institutional strengthening of DOF - are not
expected to have adverse social impacts. The preparation of this project recognizes that the skills and type
of support needed for community-based fisheries management are quite different from those which DOF is
used to handling. The key skills are in social and stakeholder analysis, institutional analysis and reform,
consensus building, and conflict management and resolution. Effective implementation of the various
project components would require social and economic skills which currently are lacking in DOF. This
component would assist DOF in acquiring such skills.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Land acquisition needs under the project would be minimal (about 20 ha). Provision has been made in
project costing for compensating those whose land may be acquired.
Recommendations
Social assessment should become part of an ongoing process of monitoring and evaluation.
Making necessary adjustments and changes in the course of project implementation is understood as key to
achieving optimal results.
Regarding the issue of possible resettlement of families because of the 20 ha that would be acquired, GOB
and IDA agreed during negotiations that procedures and guidelines outlined in the social framework would
be followed in dealing with resettlement issues. The social framework is included in the PIP.



?    tf'~~~~89                                   90                                                                 92
/~~.  \  t: .   .                                                    ~~~BANGLADESH 
<,   ts  -                                         ~~~~~~~~FOURTH FISHERIES PROJECT
-   ; r  9. > t  .  -                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRESHWATER:
_,.J   ; t  >. X   : . 1  E   .> .                                   +    ~~~~~~~~~~AQUACULTURFEEXTENSION AND TRAINING
/   /   ,   <         (  |                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPEN WATER FISHERIES MANAGEMENT.
26 ' Th.k,g.',...:                                j 1                                                     AQUATIC SANCTUARY
26  } Thakur=onv,    \ -1 Nilph-marl "  9A 'C, j   -N       :                                         COMMUNITY-BASED FLOODPLAIN STOCKING             26-
}   :  0   ti!)@  .-_  <@ignirht   \   i>;ii;                            r~~~~~~~~~~ FISH PASSFS AND WATER REGULATORY STRUCTURES
,  , -   ........ .   o  \   ....   ]   -> ' t-  . ,.  ,,,-          - ,   ~~HABITAT RESTORATION
<1 as .    j .  ~~Qsoiopr,dl             rl.-Q^                                                   HILSA CONSERVATION
. 0.         ,  Rngur -    f .tr.                                              COASTAL SHRIMP AQUACULTURE:
%,  3Dmalpur OP3lbatipur   j  ,,,.4 .    gg.)Fii                  Ji   ~~~FRY COLLECTORS TRAINING
,   :   \  V  -  1 ai~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    POLDER DEVELOPMENT
\   : \._  _.>   ' <   '    j   . i:':>' ,r                               /   ~~~~~~~~~~INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
0 \ T - \ / Galbandha< tJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~DFO OFFICE BUILDING
0 / \ S 0 t> ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                            FTC  RENOVATION
.  ( \    ~*   ')Joypurhatu,t                  '       -- s-
i , B>~~~~*rL        Sunumqunj                                                                                            7\  ,''. 
25>  2 R A  'S dt  H  0  b-serpur,   ;  2-
\Jamalpur~ ~         N     M*e?f,okZ    \5 o                      - 
-24 : 9  bt;> rh-aNoogn                                          N                                            DI A2
<2',_   fm|DqS2l7o<                                                                                           Sylhet
^,  heodJh        0-         9<iS]'.  0.,   M ngr arEIi,'   
i ;: 8 2EX _> ~~~~~Magr ms.  i'r g  ? ;r R "t: , J ,
if~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Yt h>d;L t      f,c }-H  E T  0 
sheprrtof7ht WoddBrszk \ 0 ,,                          f                        ishcegar                        Moi tvi,  AL       
< _ f wv w k ry, 4 >X=Mhl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  F-5  91 g                                   e  H' 9'    ' '"/ ..  Bandr n 
z                1'   ^>>~~~~~~~~~~a



