Report No. PID3969
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Fourth Fisheries Project (@)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Fisheries
Project ID                       BDPE9468
Borrower                         Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
Bhaban 6, Room 507, Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Tel: 880-2-834699/415005;
Department of Fisheries, Matsha Bhaban, Dhaka,
Bangladesh;
Bangladesh Water Development Board
WAPDA Building, Motijheel
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Tel: 880-2-831821-29/831841-55
Fax: 880-2-863315
Date PID Updated                 January 29, 1999
Appraisal Date                   September 3, 1998
Projected Board Date             July 6, 1999
1.      Country Background.   Bangladesh's economy grew by 5.6w in 1997/98.   The
unprecedented flooding in 1998 is envisaged to result in: (a) GDP growth of
between 3 and 4 percent, as compared with the 5.6 percent growth achieved in
1997/98; (b) an inflation rate which is contained at around 8 percent, due to
adequate availability of food resulting from substantial increases in food
aid, private food imports and government commercial imports; (c) the external
current account deficit rising to 2.9 percent of GDP from 1.5 percent of GDP
in 1997/98 due to the fall in export growth and increased food grain and flood
rehabilitation related imports; and (d) the overall budget deficit rising from
4.2 percent of GDP in 1997/98 to about 4.7 percent of GDP, largely reflecting
lower revenues and increases in flood-related spending for relief efforts,
food and rehabilitation expenditures.
2.      Sector Background. The fisheries sector is important because of its
contribution to income, employment, nutrition, and foreign exchange earnings.
The sector accounts for about 10t of agricultural GDP, 3t of total GDP, and 8t
of export earnings. It provides income for about 1.5 million full-time
professional fishermen or 5t of the national labor force. In addition, there
are about 11 million part-time fishermen and women, whose numbers peak in the
flood season from June through October. Fish and shrimp exports have
increased significantly over the past 10 years and now rank fourth among all
export commodities behind garments, jute, and leather. Fish supplies about 60t
of animal protein intake and 7T of total protein supplies in Bangladesh. Per
capita consumption of fish is estimated to have declined from 11.7 kg per
annum in 1972 to 7.5 kg per annum in 1990 and then risen slightly to 8.8 kg
per annum in 1995 which implies significant loss of welfare affecting
disproportionately poor people.
3.      Main sector issues are: (a) decline in inland open-water fisheries yields



and environmental degradation including loss of biodiversity caused by, among
others, flood control and road projects that have interfered with the natural
breeding and life cycles of fish; (b) appropriation of access rights by the
more powerful segments of society and unmanaged and indiscriminate resource
use; (c) social conflicts and environmental damage in shrimp farming areas;
(d) outbreak of shrimp diseases; (e) multiplicity of agencies involved in the
control and management of fisheries; and (f) institutional weaknesses such as
poor coordination among agencies involved in fisheries and non-enforcement of
fisheries laws and regulations due to lack of human, physical and financial
resources.
4.      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is addressing inland open-water
fisheries issues through a strategy which includes: (a) conserving aquatic
resources; (b) shifting priorities in management from revenue-generation to
biological conservation and sustainability; (c) increasing production by
involving beneficiaries in management and stock enhancement; and (d)
rehabilitation of degraded habitats. The negative impact of flood control and
road infrastructure on floodplain fisheries are being mitigated through a
program of floodplain stocking and fish pass construction. The introduction
of gear-based licensing schemes for selected fisheries has also been
experimented with some success and has been seen to contribute to a more
equitable and sustained distribution of fisheries benefits among resource-
users. GOB's strategy concerning shrimp farming includes promotion of improved
traditional rather than intensive shrimp farming; group formation; extension
services on how to deal with shrimp disease outbreaks; conservation of wild
seed and larvae; promotion of hatcheries for fry production, extension of
technical skills to shrimp farmers and the creation of infrastructure
facilities for the private sector. Key elements in the government's strategy
for closed water aquaculture are increasing the scale and scope of training
for farmers to increase technical knowledge and skills, the provision of
loans, the encouragement of group utilization of pond resources and the
rehabilitation of publicly-owned derelict ponds. GOB recognizes institutional
bottlenecks and the public sector's over-involvement in fisheries activities
and has expressed its intention to reorganize and restructure fisheries
institutions, encouraging the private sector and NGOs to play a greater role.
It also recognizes the need for greater co-ordination within and among
government agencies concerned with fisheries development and management to
reduce duplication and overcome hurdles posed by multi-tier jurisdiction
situations. A comprehensive National Fisheries Policy Paper addressing many
of these issues has recently been issued which provides a framework for
addressing these issues but implementing this policy will require
institutional changes. The capacity of both government agencies and NGOs to
deal with the sector, in terms of skills, resources and co-ordination between
institutions, has to be improved. The importance of involving resource-users
themselves in management has also been emphasized.
5.      Project Objectives. The main objective for the proposed project would be
to increase fish and shrimp production for domestic consumption and exports,
consistent with sustainable resource management and with special emphasis on
rural poverty alleviation, employment generation, improved capacity of local
users to manage aquatic resources in a sustainable and equitable fashion, and
conservation of aquatic biodiversity. While not directly monitored under the
project, the increased production generated would have important nutritional
and health benefits, particularly for the poor.   About 60- of animal protein
in Bangladeshi diet comes from fish.
- 2-



6.      Project Description. The objective would be achieved through the
following interventions: (a) improvement of inland open-water fisheries
management through the development of sustainable, community-based
institutions and supporting them in undertaking a program of adaptive
management of their fisheries resources using technical measures such as stock
enhancement of floodplain fisheries, restoration of fisheries habitats,
establishment of fish sanctuaries, and construction of fish passes; (b)
establishment of sustainable and equitable institutional arrangements for
managing shrimp polders and works (including improvements in salt-water
inlets, flushing structures and channels) to facilitate the development of
environmentally friendly smallholder shrimp production; (c) improvement of
sustainability of shrimp fry collection through the development and extension
of less destructive methods and by helping poor shrimp fry collectors gain
access to services and support; (d) development and application of an
appropriate extension strategy for freshwater aquaculture and establishment of
an institutional network including the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and
other organizations to apply and improve that strategy; (e) studies of key
issues in aquatic resource development and management in Bangladesh and
development of a socially feasible and ecologically sound management plan for
the conservation of hilsa fisheries; and (f) strengthening the capacity of
DOF to manage and support the fisheries sector, plan for its development and
long-term sustainability and implement national fisheries policy.
7.      Project Cost and Financing. Total project cost is estimated at US$60.8
million of which IDA is expected to finance foreign exchange cost and some
local costs estimated at US$28 million. In addition, it is anticipated that
DFID of the UK would finance technical assistance estimated at US$15.5
million. Global Environmental Facility would support aquatic resources
development, management, and conservation studies estimated to cost US$5
million. The Government of Bangladesh and the beneficiaries are expected to
contribute US$9 million and US$2.9 million, respectively.
8       Project Benefits. The long-term benefits of the project would be
sustained access to fish for food and income for people in Bangladesh. Those
for whom fishing is a major source of livelihood would be assured of that
livelihood into the future by interventions to arrest the decline of the
resource and ensuring sustained access. Enhancement of the resource, and the
support of aquaculture development, would also lead to the increase in
financial and nutritional benefits from fisheries and the creation of
employment opportunities. The resource management approaches used would
empower communities to take responsibility for the resources they depend on
and increase their self-reliance. Fish is the major source of animal protein
for many poor rural families and improved access to fish would ensure better
nutritional status. Environmental degradation, in the form of
overexploitation of floodplain fisheries and poor water management in shrimp
producing areas would be arrested and reversed. Biodiversity would also be
conserved in these areas. The capacity of DOF, NGOs and other institutions to
effectively and sustainably support the fisheries sector would be strengthened
and a service orientation encouraged.
9.      Project Implementation.   GOB would be the borrower.   DOF of the Ministry
of Fisheries and Livestock would be the principal implementing agency.
Bangladesh Water Development Board and the Local Government Engineering
Department would be responsible for all proposed civil works. For such civil
works, DOF would work closely with BWDB or LGED and with the NGOs involved.
- 3 -



The NGOs would link the project and concerned institutions with the
communities.
10.     Project Sustainability.   Project sustainability would be addressed at
three levels: technical, institutional, and financial. (a) Technical
sustainability: Inland open-water fisheries management (stock enhancement,
habitat restoration, fish passes/regulators, and aquatic sanctuaries), coastal
shrimp aquaculture, and freshwater aquaculture extension and training
components of the project appear technically sustainable. There would be
special focus on appropriate management of the fisheries resource and
promotion of approaches and technologies that would increase fish and shrimp
production in a sustainable manner. Giving beneficiaries longer term, instead
of one-year, leases of water bodies would provide the incentive for resource
conservation. Mainstreaming of aquatic biodiversity concerns into the
development of the fisheries sector would also contribute to long-term
sustainability. (b) Institutional sustainability: The sustainability of
community-based fisheries management as an institution is less certain.
Concerted efforts by those opposed to the principles of user control over
resources can undermine even the best planned attempts to set up community-
based management institutions. In some areas or even specific communities,
the social and political context may prove unconducive to developing this type
of management approach. Thorough identification of potential sites, involving
local NGOs and looking carefully at both the technical aspects and the social
feasibility of community-based management, would help to minimize these risks.
Careful assessment of NGO capacity to deal with opposition would also play a
role. GOB's commitment to long-term leases of water bodies to the communities
would constitute a basic precondition for initiating the community-based
management process. Institutional sustainability would be strengthened by the
significant involvement of NGOs in assisting the communities in organizing
themselves to implement and operate the project, and by GOB's commitment to
beneficiary participation and agreement to lease water bodies to the
communities for a period of seven years. The project would nurture broad-
based support among major stakeholders (GOB, communities, private sector, and
NGOs). (c) Financial sustainability: The likelihood that the project would
be financially sustainable after the close of the credit is substantial. All
components have high financial rates of return and positive net present
values. Most O&M responsibilities would be borne by the beneficiaries. The
net benefits accruing to the beneficiaries (after allowing for O&M costs) are
high. The fishing families in the project area stand to gain significantly as
the project is designed to increase fish production and train fishermen
regarding better fishing methods, which together will significantly improve
the yields. Although most of the O&M responsibilities would fall on the
beneficiaries, GOB would still be expected to carry out periodic maintenance
and major repairs in the case of shrimp infrastructure, fish passes and water
regulators and pay for incremental staff and logistics.
11.     Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. There are several aspects of
the current project which reflect learning from past experience. First of
all, the process by which the project has been formulated has brought together
the borrower, the donors and, most importantly, the principal stakeholders in
identifying the key issues that the project should address. Past projects
were often formulated with relatively limited involvement of borrowers and
eventual beneficiaries, leading to a limited sense of ownership for both the
borrower and beneficiaries and poor sustainability as a result. Beneficiary
involvement from an early stage is critical. Long-term sustainability of
- 4 -



community-based floodplain fisheries management relies on the beneficaires
ultimately being willing to bear the cost of management themselves.
Experience has shown that they are willing to do this if: (a) the benefits are
clear; (b) long-term control over the resource is assured; (c) appropriate
mechanisms are identified to distribute costs among potential beneficiaries;
and (d) those costs somehow reflect the benefits obtained by different
beneficiary groups. This final point was of considerable importance and has
led to the recommendation which the project would make to participating
communities that management interventions be accompanied by the introduction
of gear-based licensing system which would allow cost sharing and a
transparent and equitable distribution of access and benefits. Another lesson
concerns the role of NGOs. Where NGOs were not originally involved, it has
generally been necessary to bring them in at a later date to help resolve the
problems and conflicts which can arise where fisheries enhancement and
management has been imposed from outside. Independent of donor funding, there
are also other NGO-supported activities in several locations in Bangladesh
which have provided valuable experience in the NGO-sector in fisheries and
water-resource management. Important lessons have also been learned from
shrimp culture operations. Failure to anticipate possible social conflicts
can have serious implications for projects in this sector. Thorough
consultation with different stakeholders and the identification and
recognition of their conflicting interests is critical if a commonly
acceptable solution is to be found. Technical solutions need to be simple and
manageable and over-intensification should be avoided. NGOs have been shown
to be able to play an important role as they can also assist poorer, more
vulnerable stakeholders to protect their interests in the face of pressure
from more powerful elite. The need for this careful preparatory work has been
recognized in project design. In the aquaculture ssubector it has been seen
that "blueprint" approaches are not adequate and a more flexible strategy
needs to be developed. Experience from previous operations has suggested that
a "model village" approach can be effective and help promote a more
equitable distribution of benefits among community members.
12.     Poverty Category.   The project is included in Program of Targeted
Interventions (Category B) because fish production is mainly carried out by
the landless rural poor.
13      Environmental Aspects.   The main environmental concerns are described in
detail in the Environmental Assessment Report on the proposed project. IDA
concluded from that report that the project is an Environmental Category B
project since the project components were found to have relatively limited
environmental impact potential; and for those adverse impacts which could
potentially occur, there exists reasonably straightforward and understood
mitigation measures which could be applied. Generally, the improvement in
sustainable management of the aquatic environment and fisheries in Bangladesh
is one of the major objectives of the project, and the project design has been
formulated to achieve this objective to the degree possible. Nevertheless,
some of the proposed project components could have potential adverse impacts
on the environment if not implemented properly and monitored carefully to make
any needed adjustments in component implementation and management. Overall,
these potential adverse environmental impacts that could result from
implementation of the project components have been identified and minimized in
the project design. In addition, the project would include the GEF-assisted
Aquatic Resources Development, Management, and Conservation Studies component.
This component includes all required environmental monitoring activities that
- 5 -



would be necessary to assess the above potential impacts and provide the
knowledge necessary to make adjustments, where possible, in project design
should estimated impacts of the project be exceeded.
14.     Project Objective Categories. The project addresses environmentally
sustainable development, poverty reduction, and private sector development
(with public involvement being aimed at enhancing private sector
participation).
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 19, 1999.
- 6 -



