Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3276 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Fisheries Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3276 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated Septemer 5, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;   
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
a grant (the GEF Grant) in an amount equivalent to three million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement (the GEF Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, entered into between the 
Borrower (therein referred to as the Recipient) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as an implementing agency of the GEF (the Bank); 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for International 
Development (DFID) a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount of $15,500,000 equivalent to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
United Kingdom; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board established and 
operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and Power Development Board Order, 1972 
(P.O. No. 59 of 1972) as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
"DOF" means the Department of Fisheries within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Fisheries and Livestock; 
(c)
"LGED" means the Local Government Engineering Department within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives; 
(d)
"Implementing Agencies" means BWDB, DOF and LGED collectively; 
(e)
"BFRI" means the Bangladesh Fisheries Research Institute under the 
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock of the Borrower; 
(f)
"Third Fisheries Project" means the Project financed under the 
Development Credit Agreement No. 2146-BD between the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
and the International Development Association, dated June 8, 1990;
(g)
"FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and ending on 
June 30; 
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(i)
"TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka two separate special deposit accounts (the DOF Special Account and the BWDB 
Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2009, and ending January 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2019, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Implementing Agencies with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and 
fisheries resource management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, 
including the Implementing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  5
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the GEF Grant Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the DFID Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the DFID Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section \0b12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the DFID Grant Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
Page  6
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Joint 
Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, Assistant 
Secretary, Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.K.M. Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple 
Country Director Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
 
85%
(a)
for DOF and LGED
   4,300,000
(excluding Part A. 4)
(b)
for BWDB
   5,110,000
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
for DOF and LGED
   2,540,000
 
100% of local
expenditures
(b)  for BWDB
80,000  
(ex-factory cost)
 
and 80% of local
 expenditures 
for
 
other items procured
locally
(3)
Fingerlings
   2,240,000
 
100% of expenditures 
 excluding 
expenditures
 
financed by local
communities in 
accordance with
paragraph 6(a)(ii) of
Schedule 4
(4)
Incremental staff
   3,680,000
100% in FY 2000;
salaries and operating
80% in FY 2001;
costs of DOF
60% in FY 2002;
and 40% thereafter
(5)
Consultants’ services
100%
including private auditors
(a)
for DOF and LGED
     660,000
(b)
for BWDB
     220,000
 (6)
Unallocated
   1,770,000
TOTAL
  20,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "incremental staff salaries and operating costs" means the cost 
of additional personnel engaged exclusively for purposes of the Project, and the cost 
of operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles and equipment procured for purposes 
of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) for consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 each, in the case of firms, 
and $50,000 in the case of individuals; and (c) under Categories 3 and 4, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  8
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support sustainable growth in and equitable 
distribution of the benefits generated from increased fish and shrimp production for 
domestic consumption and exports.  
The Project will contribute to poverty alleviation in Bangladesh by improving 
the livelihoods of poor people dependent on fisheries resources. In addition, while 
not directly monitored under the Project, the increased production will have important 
nutritional and health benefits, particularly for the poor since fish contributes 
about 60% of animal protein in their diet.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community-based Inland Open-water Fisheries Management: 
1.
Stocking, by local fishing communities, with assistance of DOF and NGOs, of 
about 60,000 ha of floodplains of about 3,000 ha maximum size (and one larger 
floodplain) with fingerlings, including training of the fishing communities to manage 
the floodplains in a sustainable manner. 
2.
Construction, by BWDB with assistance of DOF, local fishing communities and 
NGOs, of about eight pilot fish passes and modifications of about five existing sluice 
gates into structures that facilitate fish migration. 
3.
Restoration (channel and beel re-excavation), by LGED, with assistance of DOF, 
local fishing communities and NGOs, of ten fish habitats. 
4.
Establishment, by DOF with assistance of local fishing communities and NGOs, of 
about 50 aquatic sanctuaries.
Part B:
Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture 
1.
Completion of construction, by BWDB, with assistance of DOF, local communities 
and NGOs, in four shrimp polders started under Third Fisheries Project of improved 
polder embankments, sluices, and foot bridges over water channels, and training of the 
community to manage shrimp production in an environmentally and socially appropriate 
manner, and assistance in organizing the community to maintain the infrastructure. 
2.
Construction, by BWDB with assistance of DOF, local communities and NGOs, in one 
new shrimp polder of improved polder embankments, sluices and foot bridges over water 
channels, and training of the community to manage shrimp production in an 
environmentally and socially appropriate manner, and assistance in organizing the 
community to maintain the infrastructure. 
3.
Improvements, by DOF with assistance of consultants and NGOs, in shrimp fry 
collection methods.
Part C:
Freshwater Aquaculture Extension and Training
Carrying out of freshwater aquaculture extension and training, by DOF, with NGOs 
and private sector assistance, in about 30 districts covering 200 thanas of 8,000 
villages.
Part D:
Aquatic Resources Development, Management and Conservation Studies 
1.
Preparation and implementation, by DOF with assistance of BFRI and consultants, 
of hilsa management development plan outlining technical, ecological, legal and 
institutional activities that need to be implemented to sustain the hilsa fishery. 
2.
Carrying out aquatic resources development, management, and conservation studies 
including assessment of ecosystem integrity and sustainability within the context of 
large-scale water projects, monitoring of floodplain fisheries productivity and 
biological and genetic diversity, evaluation of dynamics of introduced exotic species 
and impacts upon native biodiversity, and evaluation of impact of shrimp seed 
collection on coastal biodiversity and fisheries productivity.   
3.
Carrying out studies to monitor the effects of the Project on fisheries 
resources. 
4.
Carrying out studies to consider future opportunities for aquaculture and 
Page  9
fisheries development and prepare project proposals for future consideration.
Part E:
Institutional Support to DOF and Training of NGOs 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to DOF for project management, on-the-job, 
in-service, and overseas training, particularly in economics, social development, 
community development, and participation skills. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance in the areas of community management, 
fisheries socio-economics, fisheries resources management, training (for DOF staff and 
NGOs) and extension for freshwater and shrimp aquaculture, monitoring and evaluation, 
financial management, institutional development, and training management. 
3.
Strengthening of DOF through the financing of incremental costs for office and 
field equipment, vehicles, staff, and operation of Project facilities. 
4.
Strengthening of DOF through carrying out of civil works for construction of ten 
new District Fisheries Offices in districts that lack these buildings. 
5.
Strengthening of DOF through carrying out of civil works for rehabilitation of 
DOF facilities (including Fish Seed Multiplication Farms and Fisheries Training 
Centers) damaged by the 1998 floods.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and  the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, and all civil works may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
The provisions under the following subparagraph (c) shall apply to goods 
and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1.
(c)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
Page  10
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed by the Association;
(iv)
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a  foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii)post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders;  
(xix)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
(x)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's 
prior concurrence; 
(xi)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished;  
(xiii)bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids.
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation
Fingerlings shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
Page  11
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts for civil works and the first two 
contracts for goods for each of the three Implementing Agencies, and thereafter each 
contract for works or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following  
provisions  of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: 
the short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall promptly establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project a Project Management Unit with powers, functions and composition satisfactory 
to the Association. 
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project a Project Steering 
Committee comprising NGO, private sector, and public sector representatives under the 
chairmanship of the Secretary, Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock, to guide the 
Project during implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Land (MOL) to:
(a)
transfer management of jalmohals in floodplains selected to be supported 
under the Project to DOF for a period of seven years from the date of selection for 
Project support.  DOF to transfer the management of fisheries to fishing communities 
for the same length of time;
(b)
transfer fisheries management of rivers, channels and beels selected for 
fish habitat restoration to DOF for seven years from the date of selection for Project 
support.  DOF to put the habitats under community-based management, also for the same 
length of time; and 
(c)
not renew leases to canals in polders proposed to be taken up for shrimp 
development under the Project, and take all action necessary on its part to ensure 
that Parts B.1 and 2 of the Project are carried out only in areas where leases have 
expired and have not been renewed.
4.
The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Water Resources to:
(a)
permit construction of fish passes and modification to selected existing 
sluice gates on existing embankments to make them more suitable for fish migration; 
and
(b)
allow borrow pits developed under the Project to be leased through DOF to 
groups of poor fishing families for a period of seven years. 
5.
The Borrower shall cause DOF and BWDB to ensure that any civil works, other than 
DOF facilities, will be preceded by agreement with the community involving them in the 
design concepts, site selection, general supervision of implementation work, and 
operation and maintenance.
6.
The Borrower shall take reasonable action to:
(a)
ensure that Beneficiaries under Part A 1 of the Project:  
(i)
pay gear-based fishing licensing fees sufficient to cover DOF 
lease payment to the Ministry of Land for jalmohals in floodplains 
transferred to DOF according to paragraph 3 of this Schedule; and 
(ii)
contribute their share of fingerling stocking as follows:
(A)
10% of the cost of fingerlings (up to a maximum of 10 kg/ha) 
in the first year of floodplain stocking;
(B)
40% of the cost of fingerlings (up to a maximum of 10 kg/ha) 
in the second year of floodplain stocking; 
Page  13
(C)
70% of the cost of fingerlings (up to a maximum of 10 kg/ha) 
in the third year of floodplain stocking; 
(D)
100% thereafter; and
(E)
100% of any costs of fingerling stocking above 10 kg/ha.
(b)
ensure that Beneficiaries under Parts A. 2 and 3 of the Project pay 
gear-based fishing licensing fees sufficient to cover estimated average annual 
operations and maintenance of these facilities. 
7.
The Borrower shall take reasonable action to ensure that stocking under Part A. 
1 of the Project will be with indigenous species only unless the results of studies 
under Part D. 2 of the Project demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Association that 
use of exotic species is not harmful to biodiversity. 
8.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Implementing Agencies use criteria 
satisfactory to the Association for selecting sites for Part A of the Project.
9.
The Borrower shall cause DOF, with respect to Part A 1 of the Project, to ensure 
that:
(a)
the floodplains for the first year’s stocking are selected from among 
those stocked under the Third Fisheries Project where baseline data for monitoring 
exist and that an NGO will be involved with each community for at least 6 months in 
advance of the stocking date; and 
(b)
for new floodplains, a full year monitoring and NGO assistance will be 
conducted and provided, respectively, in advance of stocking. 
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that a full feasibility study, including economic, 
financial, technical, social, environmental, and community organizational aspects is 
carried out before commencing civil works in Parts B. 1 and 2 of the Project. 
11.
The Borrower shall cause BWDB to employ engineering firms to handle the design 
of civil works, assist in evaluation of bids, and supervise construction under Parts 
B. 1 and 2 of the Project. 
12.
The Borrower shall ensure that Fish Seed Multiplication Farms to be 
rehabilitated under the Project shall only be used for the purposes of developing 
improved brood stock of the major fishes artificially propagated in the country and 
not for seed multiplication for commercial purposes.  
13.
The Borrower shall carry out any land acquisition under the Project in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
14.
The Borrower shall appoint by (i) March 31, 2001; and (ii) June 30, 2003, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, qualified private firms to carry 
out by: (i) September 30, 2001; and (ii) December 31, 2003, respectively two 
independent performance evaluations including review of the financial management 
system and verification of procurement.
15.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
Page  14
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3, 4 and 5(a)  
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of 
DOF Special Account and Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 5(b) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of BWDB Special Account.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of each Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to the dollar figure specified below for each such 
Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule: (i) DOF 
Special Account, TK73,000,000; (ii) BWDB Special Account TK49,000,000, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to TK48,500,000 in respect of the DOF Special 
Account and an amount equivalent to TK32,000,000 in respect of the BWDB Special 
Account until (i) in respect of the DOF Special Account, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories 1(a), 2 (a), 3, 4 and 5 
(a) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of\0b SDR 3,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the BWDB Special 
Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to 
Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 5 (b) plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
Page  15
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
