Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER
TF022832 BD
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Fourth Fisheries Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated September 5, 1999
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER
TF022832 BD
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, and 
authorized the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as 
Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the 
Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of 
the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF 
Page  2
Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the 
first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(E)
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and by an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient (therein referred to as the 
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to provide such assistance 
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR20,600,000) (the Credit); 
(F)
the Recipient also intends to obtain from the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland (United Kingdom), acting through the Department for 
International Development (DFID) a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount of $15,500,000 
equivalent to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the United Kingdom; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge 
of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."; and
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as 
amended through December 2, 1997) as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement; and 
(b)
"GEF Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka a special deposit account (the GEF Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 3.01, 3.02, 
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedule 2, 3 and 5 
thereto are incorporated in the Grant Agreement, with the following modifications in 
said Sections and Schedules 2, 3 and 5 unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
(ii)
the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be read as "GEF Trust 
Fund Grant" and "GEF Trust Fund Grant Account"; and
(iii)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Development Credit 
Agreement".
(b)
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding, and unless the Recipient has been notified 
otherwise by the Bank:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association 
pursuant to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the 
Development Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of this 
Section shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on 
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of any of such Sections of 
the Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto shall be 
deemed to be furnished to both the Association and Bank.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the events 
set out in Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement are specified as 
additional events, provided, however, that the term "Association" wherever it appears 
in such Section shall be read as "Bank"
.   
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the Parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
Section 5.04. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Recipient and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Page  5
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Joint 
Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, Assistant 
Secretary, Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
        Telex:
INTBAFRAD
               248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
          64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
By /s/ A.K.M. Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple 
Country Director Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant
   % of
Allocated (expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for DOF
Page  6
for Part A.4
220,000
85%
(2)
Consultant’s services
for DOF for:
100%
(i)
Part A
740,000
(ii)
Part B.3
 80,000
(iii)
Parts D.1, 2 and 3    1,850,000
(3)
Training and
440,000
policy development 
100%
(4)
Unallocated
370,000
TOTAL
    3,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) for consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 each, in the case of firms, 
and $50,000 in the case of individuals; and (c) under Category 3, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 4.
If the Bank 
shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2 
GEF Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
TK12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to TK8,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  7
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  8
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
