CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 221 GUA
Project Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK OF GUYANA
DATED NOVEMBER 27, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 221 GUA
Project Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK OF GUYANA
DATED NOVEMBER 27, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 27, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
OF GUYANA (hereinafter called the Central Bank).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
Guyana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association (hereinafter referred
to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million
two hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but on condition that the Central Bank
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Borrower and the Central Bank,
part of the proceeds of the credit will be made available to the Central Bank
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Central Bank, acting as Trustee for the Borrower, shall
grant Subsidiary Loans for the purposes of extending sub-loans for livestock


﻿4
development and shall provide services referred to in Part D of the Project related
to their extension with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, economic, financial and agricultural practices and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facilities and services required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. The Central Bank shall enter into a Trust Agreement with
the Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and shall
duly perform all its obligations under the Trust Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Central Bank shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Trust Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. The Central Bank shall invite commercial banks to participate
in carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project and shall enter into Subsidiary
Loan Agreements with those wishing to participate on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to this Project
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association. The Central Bank shall duly perform
all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Central Bank shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04, The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out
of Parts A, B and C of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement, as the sam- may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower, the Association and the Central Bank.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Central
Bank shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. The Central Bank: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof, the total of Development
Plans approved, sub-loans granted and disbursed, Subsidiary Loans granted and
disbursed, and the expenses of LPD) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
ARTICLE lIl
Management and Operations of the Central Bank
Section 3.01. The Central Bank shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs and
carry on its operations in respect of the Project, in accordance with sound business
and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate number; and
(b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights and powers
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of its functions as Trustee.
Section 3.02. The Central Bank, as Trustee for the Borrower, shall establish
a Livestock Project Division for the provision of the services referred to in Part
D of the Project and employ the personnel hereinafter mentioned. LPD shall be
headed by a Project Director who will be an internationally recruited specialist
with substantial experience and a high degree of specialization in animal husbandry
or related activity, satisfactory to, and on terms and conditions agreed by, the
Borrower and the Association. LPD shall have both a technical and an administrative
Deputy Director who will be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
and about five livestock technicians with supporting staff.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of reviewing and recommending to the
Participating Banks the sub-loan applications and the respective Development Plans,
and for other matters related to the Project, a Project Executive Committee shall
be established in the Central Bank, and will, unless the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, be composed of a representative from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources who will act as its chairman, a representative
from the Ministry of Economic Development, a representative of the Central Bank
and the Project Director or his representative.
Section 3.04. The Central Bank shall establish a Livestock Development Fund
and credit to it (i) the equivalent in local currency of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, (ii) the sums made available by the Borrower
in accordance with Section 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement, and (iii)
the repayments of capital and payments of interest and other charges it shall receive
on account of Subsidiary Loans. The Central Bank shall withdraw from LDF
amounts required: (a) to defray the costs of LPD and the costs of administering
LDF, in respect of the Project, (b) to disburse Subsidiary Loans, and (c) to
reimburse the Borrower the sums referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this Section.
Any surplus in the LDF shall be available to the Borrower for purposes of servicing
the Credit, and any public investment purpose including further livestock
development.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Central Bank shall maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Central Bank shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements in respect of the Project (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, in respect of the Project, not
later than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Central Bank
in respect of the Project and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Central Bank shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Central Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the Trust Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Central Bank and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Central Bank shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either
of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Central Bank of their respective obligations under the Trust Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Central Bank shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect any of its records and documents relevant to the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following
two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date when all principal amounts of sub-loans and Subsidiary
Loans, and interest and other charges thereon, shall have been
repaid.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Central Bank of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Central Bank:
Bank of Guyana
P.O. Box 658
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:
Centralbank
Georgetown
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Central Bank may be taken or executed by its Governor or such other
person or persons as the Central Bank shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Central Bank shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Central Bank, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Central Bank
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
BANK OF GUYANA
By /s/ P.E. Matthews
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.    LPD will receive sub-loan applications and present those that comply with
the requirements specified in paragraph 2 and that in its opinion merit full appraisal
to the Participating Bank of the applicant's choice for a preliminary determination
of the applicant's creditworthiness.
2.    LPD will require the applicant to submit evidence (a) in case of an application
for a sub-loan under Part A of the Project, that he (i) holds (except for applicants
for sub-loans under Part A (ii) (b) of the Project) title, or a suitable option for
title, acceptable as security (comprising a 25-year, renewable, transferable lease or
better) over an appropriate and specific ranching area including, in the case of
coastal ranches, at least 10% of the said land not susceptible to annual flooding,
(ii) owns an adequate beef herd, and (iii) is willing to employ a manager acceptable
to the Project Director with adequate powers and authority including the delegated
power to recruit, discipline and terminate the services of the staff of the ranching
enterprise; and (b) in case of an application for a sub-loan under Part B of the
Project, that he has adequate competency and experience within his organization
in clearing land by chaining.
3. - LPD will assist those applicants whom the Participating Banks have, after
preliminary determination, considered to be creditworthy, to bring their
applications, including the Development Plan, to the standards it may set from
time to time, and will appraise the application on technical, economic and financial
grounds.
4.    No Development Plan shall be submitted for the recommendation of the
Project Executive Committee, nor thereafter to the Participating Banks, without
the approval of the Project Director or other persons authorized by him.
5.    LPD, before submitting 'or the recommendation of the Project Executive
Committee any application for a sub-loan under Part A of the Project, will obtain
evidence that the applicant has made satisfactory arrangements for the employment
of the manager referred to in paragraph 2 (iii). In case of an application for a
sub-loan which by itself or together with any other sub-loan for the same applicant
would exceed the equivalent of $150,000, LPD will submit it to the Association
for its prior approval. In the case of a sub-loan application presented by LDCo,
LPD will satisfy the Association that LDCo has sufficient funds to carry out the
Development Plan and is adequately staffed to carry out its business.


﻿*                                11
6.   The application and the respective Development Plan recommended by the
Project Executive Committee will be forwarded to the applicable Participating Bank
who, taking into account the creditworthiness of the applicant, will decide on the
granting of the sub-loan.
7.    Sub-loans will be in the amount recommended in the Development Plan,
and will not ordinarily exceed 80% of the total cost of the Development Plan
or of the total cost of the clearing equipment. In case of sub-loans for ranchers,
sub-loans will be for 12 years, including 4 years of grace, at 9-1/2% per year,
and in the case of clearing contractors, 5 years, including I year of grace, at 9%
per year. Prepayment of sub-loans will carry no penalty. The Participating Bank
will also grant the applicant such short-term loans, at its current normal rate, as
shall be shown necessary in the applicable Development Plan. The Participating
Bank will enter into sub-loan agreements with each rancher on terms satisfactory
to the Association.
8.    The Central Bank, out of the Livestock Development Fund, will reimburse
up to 75% of each sub-loan with a Subsidiary Loan at 6% per year, except sub-loans
under Part A (ii) (b) of the Project, which it will reimburse with a Subsidiary
Loan at 8% per year. The rate of interest on Subsidiary Loans shall be adjusted
from time to time from the date of this Agreement by increasing it in the proportion
of one point to every three points decrease in the prime rate determined and
announced by the Central Bank, or by decreasing it in the proportion of one point
to every three points increase in the said prime rate.
9.    The Participating Bank shall pay the Central Bank, promptly upon receipt
of interest on sub-loans, a service charge of 1/2% per year on the full amount
of sub-loans granted to ranchers and outstanding from time to time.


