Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t-N 3e093-/'V
4.A/~~4
-3 o    e  S- /A                                 Report No. 7704-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOI'T
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 24, 1989
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Industry and Finance Operations Diviqion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the perfonmnace of
their officral duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd BDnk author4oo. 0



29& =Y   EOUIVALENTS
Rs 1       -    US$0.067
Rs 15      -    US$1.00
FISCAL YEI=
Government of India - April 1 - March 31
IDBI                 -  April 1 - March 31
ICICI                - April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASIC       - Application Specific Integrated Circuits
CAD/CAM    - Computer Aided Design and ManufacturIng
CEDT       - Center for Electronics Design and Technology
DFI        -Development Finanice Institution
EPABX      - Elect.onics Private Auxiliary Branch Exchange
ERAS       - Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
Eximbank   - Export-Import Bank of India
FERA       - Foreign Exchange Regulation I,t
GOI        - Government of India
IC         - Integrated Circuit
ICICI      - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI       - Industrial Development Bank of India
IIT        - Indian Institute of Technology
JGF        - Japan Grant Facility
LSI        - Large Scale Integration
MES        - Minimum Economic Scale
MODVAT     - Modified Value Added Tax
MRTP       - Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
OGL        - Open General License
PIU        - Project Implementation Unit
PMP        - Phased Manufacturing Program
PSE        - Public Sector Enterprise
RBI        - Reserve Bank of India
REP        - Import Replenishment
SCL        - Semiconductor Complex Ltd.
SDC        - Swiss Development Cooperation
SFC        - State Financial Corporation
SSI        - Small Scale Industry
VLSI       - Very Large Scale Integrated Circuit



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
~PA
ELECTRONlICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
IAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................T     i
I.   INTRODUCTION .................................................  1
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND ............................................  2
A.  Electronics Industry Structure and Performance ...........  2
B.  Assessment of Competitiveness ...........................   4
C.  Potential and Prospects for Development ..................  5
D.  Policy Environment .......................................  6
E.  Policy Constraints ....................................... 10
F. Manpower Constraints ..................................... 11
G.  The Financial Sector..     .......,... 12
III.  THE BANK'S ROLE IN INDUSTRY .................................. 18
A.  Previous Bank Lending to Industry ........................ 18
B.  T"s Bank's Future Lending Strategy ....................... 19
C.  Electronics in Bank's Lending ............................ 19
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT ......................................... 2.
A.  Project Objectives ....................................... 21
B. froject Description                    ..                     21
C.  Term Credit to Expand and Upgrade Electronics Capacity...  22
D. Manpower Development and Training              .      .       23
E. Technical Assistance                    ..                    25
(i) Software Capability Devrelopment .................... 25
(ii) Seminar Program .................................... 26
(iii) Training and Technical Assistance for the DFIs ..... 26
F.  Project Cost           ......................... 27
G.  Financing Arrangements        .................... 28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
January 23 - 'larch 8, 1989. Mission members were Messrs. G. Gowen (Senior
Economist), K. Arichandran (Senior Financial Analyst), J. Bredie (Technical
Education Specialist), Arnold Miller (Consultant), B. Wadia (Consultant),
A. Bhojwani (Consultant), P. Reymond (Consultant), J. Delisle (Consultant,
Swiss Development Cooperation), and A. Pittet (Consultant, Swiss
Development Cooperation).  The report was prepared by Messrs G. Gowen,
K. Arichandran, and J. Bredie.
This document has a restricted distfibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Pag-e No.
V.  THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ..................... 30
A.  Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) .............. 30
B. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India Limited (ICICI) ............................... 31
VI.   THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................................... 33
A.  Terms and Conditions ..................................... 33
B.  Administrative Procedures ................................ 34
C.  Project Benefits and Risks ............................... 37
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................... 39
A.  Agreements ...................................                 39
B.  Recommendation ...................................            40
ANNEXES
1. Electronics Production 1980-87
2. Manpower Development
3. Technical Assistance
4. The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
5. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India Limited (ICICI)
6. Documents in Project File



INDIA
ELET=RONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and proiect Summary
B kiorrowers             (a) India, acting by its President.
(b) Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI);
(c) Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India (ICICI).
Guarantor of the
Loans go IDBI
and iCI  i               India, acting by its President
Loan Amounvts       : US$210 million equivalent to be lent as follows:
(a) US$8 million equivalent to India;
(b) US$101 million equivalent to IDBI; and
(c) US$101 million equivalent to ICICI
Terms                    Twenty years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relending terms    :   Development Finance Institutions (DFI) Credit
Component. The loans to IDBI and to ICICI for
fixed assets and permanent working capital would be
relent in foreign exchange at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus 2% to provide a spread
to the DFIs, or in rupees at the prevailing
Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS) rate
(presently 15% with a cap rate of 18%). This rate
would be adjusted according to ERAS terms to cover
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
ProiectX
Description         :   The project would include the following components:
(a) private and joint sector investment (US$420
million) in fixed assets and permanent working
capital with Bank financing through IDBI and ICICI
(US$202 million) us    a new "single window"
mechanism for financing of both term and working
capital requirements of sub-borrowers; (b)
improvement of skilled man-power development and
training capacity of selected education and
training institutions (US$26.8 million) through
grants from DOE (financed by US$8.0 million from
the Bank, $16.2 million grant funds expected from
the Swiss Development Cooperation and US$2.6
million from GOI) for equipment, training and other
assistance; and (c) technical assistance (US$3.0
million) for: (i) development of the computer
software industry studies, seminar, and project
identification; (ii) support of electronics policy



.11-
development through seminars and studies; and (iii)
upgrading the capability of financial institutions
to screen and appraise electronics projects
(financing of US$2.7 million expected from Japan
Grant Facility, $0.2 million from GOI and US$0.1
million from the DFIs. The total cost of the
project would be US$450 million.
Risks              :   The credit component would provide longterm finance
to about 30 subprojects, resulting in total
investment of about US$420 million and employment
of about 12,000 people. It would initiate reform
in the system for financing industrial investments
in the direction of increased institutional
flexibility. The manpower and training component
would result in an upgraded capability to produce
4000 middle and higher level technical and
professional staff annually in the fields of
electronics and computer software. The major risk
of this project is that the Government will
implement further needed reforms too slowly. This
would commensurately reduce the pace at which the
industry achieves lower costs and increased
efficiency, which in turn would lead to less than
expected efficiency of subsequent users throughout
the economy. Recent policy reforms provide a
sufficient basis for the project, and the Bank and
Government will continue to discuss further reforms
both in the context of macro-economic and sector
work and the proposed project. ERAS scheme is new
and will require close monitoring to ensure that
relending rate adjusts properly to market
conditions, and the needs of financial institutions
and sub-borrowers for some predictability in their
financial planning. Finally, with respect to the
manpower component there is a potential risk of
delays in implementation because the organizational
set up is new, and the institutions are not
familiar with Bank procedures. Additional
supervision at start up will help reduce this risk.



-lii-
Estimated CGosts:
Local     Ensign    Total
------- (US$ million) ------
Credit Line for Expansion
Fixed Assets                                144.1       150.0     294.1
Working Capital                               74.1       52.      1261.
Sub-total                                218.2      202.0      420.2
Manpower Development                           19.3         7.5      26.8
Technical Assistance & Stvt.ies                 0.6        ,2.4       3,0
Total                                    238.1       211.9    450.0
Financing Pla:
Bank                                            0.5       209.5     210.0
GOI                                             2.8         --        2.8
Development Finance Institutions               50.7         --       50.7
Subproject Sponsors & others                  167.6                 167.6
Swiss Development Cooperation                  16.2                  16.2
Japan Grant Facility                            0.3         2.4       2.7
Total                                    238.1       211.9     450.0
Estimated -Lsbursements:
Bank FY               91    22 i3                 2&      95      96
-----------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual               19.6  60.5  71.2  41.4  14.7          2.2    0.3
Cumulative           19.6   80.2  151.4  192.8  207.5   209.7  210.0
Economic Rate of Return: Subprojects financed by the Financial
Intermediaries would have a minimum economic rate
of return of 12%.



INDIA
ELECTRONICS INUSTRY DEVLPNE  PROJE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  INTRDUCION
1.01     India has the potential to develop a competitive electronics
industry of international stature based on its large pool of high level
scientific and technical manpower, its growing and potentially vast
domestic markets, and the significant existing industrial base with its
large pool of capable managers and entrepreneurs, including Indians now
resident abroad. After several decades of following restrictive regulatory
policies and an inward looking trade regime, the Government, in recent
years, has enacted a far-reaching program of policy reform, which for
electronics goes further than for almost any other industry.  It provides a
sound initial basis to try to realize this industry's immense potential for
increased production and employment and as a source of productivity
improvements throughout the economy.
1.02     The proposed Electronics Industry Development Project would assist
the Government in its further efforts to foster this industry's sound
development with the objective of eventually reaching a level of
international competitiveness. First, it would provide technical and
financial support to the two largest development finance institutions to
improve their capability to identify, appraise and finance economically
sound projects in this sector. Second, it would help to improve the
quality of medium and high level technical and professional manpower needed
for the industry's rapid and efficient growth. Third, it would lay the
basis for expanding capacity in the most promising area, computer sofhrare,
by identifying projects and measures to provide needed infrastructure.
Finally, the project would provide an important basis for on-going
discussions between the Government and the Bank on policies for the
electronics sector and for industry as a whole.



-2-
II. SECTOR ACKGRO
A. Electronics Industry Structure and Performance
2.01     The world electronics industry reached an estimated worldvidk
production of nearly US$500 billion in 1987, its rapid growth spurred by
technological advances that have lowered the cost of information processing
by more than 20S per year for more than four decades.  It now accounts for
about 108 of worldwide manufacturing and its impact, through communications,
broadcasting, and information technology reaches to every corner of the
world economy. The Indian electronics industry, established almost 25 yearz
ago, accounts for only about 0.6% of international electronics production.
Relatively stagnant during the 1970s with an annual growth rate of 10% in
real terms, it has begun to catch up, its growth rate accelerating to 18%
per annum in the first half of the eighties and to nearly 25% per annum in
1985-87. Gross output reached a level of Rs 47.2 billion (US$3.6 billion)
in 19e7. The industry now comprises more than 5% of manufacturing value
added in India and is expected to continue its rapid rate of expansion.
2.02     The subsector is domestically oriented.  Total exports in 1987
(including free zones) reached only Rs 3.1 billion (US$240 million) and
averaged less than 7; of output, of which 42% originate from the oldest and
most active export processing zone on the outskirts of Bombay. Except for
Chigia, this share is low for developing countries that have significant
electronics subsectors. Imports meet only 25% to 30% of the demand for
final products. However, except for such traditional consumer goods as
radio receivers and black-and-white television sets (B&W TVs), whose inputs
are mostly produced locally, the subsector imports about half of the
required materials and components.
2.03     Public sector enterprises (PSEs) account for about 40% on average
of the subsector's output, ranging from 104 in consumer goods to nearly 100%
in communications and aerospece and defense. Most of the 3,000 or so
electronics firms are small-scale industries (SSIs), which produce about 25%
of total output and are especially important in consumer electronics.
Medium and large private enterprises account for about 35% of total output;
many of the large private firms have had long-standing associations with
multinationals.



-3-
2.04     Electronics production in 1987 was as follows:
USS billiU                *
Consumer electronics                  1.42                  38.6
Industrial electronics                 .54                  14.5
Data processing &
office supplies                      .30                   7.9
Communications                         .56                  15.0
Aerospace and defense                  -24                   6.4
Sub total                           3.04
Components                             .55                  14.8
Export processing zones                .10                   2.8
Grand total                         3.69                 100.0
Source: Depa-tment of Electronics
Expansion in consumer electronics, particularly color television
production, has helped to accelerate the subsector's recent growth. This
segment now accounts for nearly 40% of total electronics output. Although
the production of data processing equipment has grown rapidly because of
Government-sponsored modernization programs in industry and in banking,
output in this segment only reached about 46,000 units in 1987 (mostly
microcomputers), representing 8% of India's electronics subsector compared
with a 20% share ir. other countries. The industrial, telecommunications
and components segments each command about 15% of the subsector's total
output. In telecommunications, two large PSEs dominate: Indian Telephone
Industries and Hindustan Cables Limited.  Industrial electronics, which
includes several large PSEs, is concentrated in industrial process controls
and power electronics. In this segment, several firms with international
ties have been able to export worldwide.  A breakdown of electronics
production, 1980-87 is given in Annex 1.
2.05     The structure of the components segment is highly fragmented, with
a few very large firms at one end and many small producers at the other.
Production is largely for use in radio and television sets. Semiconductors
(mostly discrete devices) account for only 12% of India?s components output
compared with 30% to 50% in industrialized countries. Small- and medium-
scale integrated circuits (ICs) are produced by a single PSE, Bharat
Electronics Ltd. A second PSE, Semiconductor Complex Ltd., was producing
large-scale integration (LSI) ICs partly from imported wafers until its
plant was destroyed by fire in early 1989 (para 2.15). Very large-scaie
integration (VLSI) ICs are still imported. In total, locally produced ICs
meet less than 10% of demand and account for only 3% component production
compared with a much larger share worldwide.



.4-
B. Assessment of Competitiveness
2.06     India's electronics subsector has developed in an environment
protecting it from both domestic and international competition and
insulating it from technological progress. As a result, process
technologies are generally outmoded (8 to 20 years behind); product
technologies are 5 or 6 years behind; and Indian electronic goods generally
have very high production costs and prices. For example, for 10 major
electronics products, India's factory prices in 1986 exceeded world prices
by 20% to 170% and many were of inferior quality. Products with prices
near or below world prices, such as in printed circuit boards (PCBs) and
computer software, are rare.
2.07     Several important factors account jor the high production costs
and prices. Production scales are substantially smaller than international
minimum economic scales (MES) of leading multinationals by factors of 20 to
100 in some product lines, which affects raw material prices, capacity
utilization and other costs. Indian electronics industries also bear high
customs duties on imported components inputs and several other indirect
taxes so that total indirect taxes comprise 20% to 40% of the sales price.
As scales are small most firms pay 15% to 40% above world prices obtainable
through bulk purchase of materials and components. Profit margins for well
operated Indian firms are high by international standards for electronics
industries (from 18% to 40% of factory prices), reflecting lower
competitive pressures and short term profit horizons. Other factors which
hurt competitiveness include the following: India's relative isolation
from world markets, which limits exposure to product trends and changing
technologies; the related problem of supply uncertainties stemming from
reliance on imported raw materials, components and other needs as well as
delays due to customs administration (all of which result in costly
inventories); the lack of suppliers, precision services, ii-id other
industrial and service "infrastructure" of adequate technological
capability and re'liability; limited and unreliable communications services;
and Government regulation and controls. In addition, Indian electronics
firms face shortages and interruptions of power, communications, and input
supply (which contribute to costly inventories), and labor regulations that
lead to inflexibility and encourage overstaffing.
2.08     Although the subsector is generally inefficient by world
standards, a few firms in India now produce competitively with domestic
prices that, if adjusted for indirect taxes and international profit norms,
would approach world prices. These firms are typically found in product
areas (such as B&W TVs) characterized by relatively simple and mature
technologies that have been fully assimilated, and by domestic markets
large enough to allow economies of scale. In addition, product areas that
require a significant level of skilled labor such as PCBs, individual
electronics products with a high design content, and above all, computer
software, perform well. In most product areas, however, even the most
efficient firms are uneconomic, exhibiting one or more of the following
characteristics: production is highly capital Intensive; technology is
difficult and has not been mastered because of inadequate technology
transfer arrangements; the market is too small to allow adequate scale, or
else the technology appropriate for the size of the market is obsolete; and



high protection allows "kit assembly" from foreign sole-source sippliers
with resultant very high raw material costs.
C. Potential and Prospects foX Development
2.09     India has the potential to develop a competitive electronics
industry. Its main advantageo are its unusually large pool of high level
scientific and technical manpower whose average wages are a tenth those of
the U.S. and Western Europe- its growing and potentially vast domestic
markets; and the significant industrial base -- including a long-standing
electronics industry -- that has already developed with its pool of capable
and experienced managers and entrepreneurs. Also, a large number of non-
resident Indians with technical and managerial experience are a source of
entrepreneurship and of assistance in developing collaborative arrangements
with foreign sources of technology and finance.
2.10     These advantages need qualification, however. Skilled manpower
lacks training and exper'.ence -- constraints which this project will help
to address (paras. 4.07-4.13). Markets are not as large as India's vast
population would suggest because low incomes coupled with high prices
exclude much of India's population from them; in absolute size they are
comparable to Turkey or the Philippines. The industrial base and its
management evolved under a highly protected environment that until recently
tended to stifle competition, allowed survival (indeed, prevented exit),
despite outmoded or obsolete technical practices and limited scales of
operations, and fostered inefficient managerial practices. As discussed
below (paras. 2.17-2.23), there have been major improvements in this policy
framework.
2.11     The Bank prepared a study of this sector,J/ submitted to the
Government in July, 1987, which indicates that overall demand for
electronics equipment is expected to expand In real terms at 18-20% over
the medium term. Exports will grow even faster but will remain at less
than 10% of total production. The study identified a number of product
groups which are already competitive or can become so. The most promising
exhibit many of the following characteristics: high need for engineering
and skilled manpower in design, production, sales and installation, and
servicing; a domestic market large enough to allow production at sufficient
scale; the technology required for production can be assimilated,
effectively used, and kept up to date given the present levels of
technology and supporting infrastructure in India; relatively low intensity
in use of capital and materials; high transport costs relative to product
value; and local availability of critical inputs and experience at
reasonable costs.
2.12     The most promising product groups for the domestic industry, which
will be the primary focus of the industry's development in the next decade,
are in the professional electronics segments of industrial electronics,
computers and data processing including software, and te3ecommunications
equipment. These segments include many product groups with prospects of
1/ India - Development of the Electronics Industryl A Sector ReRort, No.
6781-IN, (June 26, 1987), (Project File, No. 1).



-6-
becoming competitive (e.g. in instruments, process controls, EPABXs)
because they are skill intensive, have relatively low capital and raw
materials needs and do not require high volumes and large scales.
Attempting products which are technically very difficult, such as state-of-
the-art mainframe computers and integrated circuit testers, may be very
costly because their technologies are closely held, fast changing and
require a hlgh level of R&r to assimilate as well as strong supporting
technical and industrial service infrastructure.
2.13     Computer software, though still a tiny industry (estimated value
of production in 1987 was about US$160 million), is particularly promising
because of its high degree of skill intensity. Exports reached US$57
million in 1987 and are estimated to have grown to US$70 million in 1988.
Though the industry is dominated by two firms, which account for about 60%
of total exports, there are dozens of smaller firms whose potential
contribution to both domestic production and exports is constrained by lack
of access to marketing expertise, software productivity tools and hardware
needed for software development, and risk capital to finance costs of
product development and marketing. A technical assistance component of the
project addresses these issues (paras. 4.15-4.16). There is a more
generalized constraint from lack of specially trained manpower as discussed
below (paras. 2.27-2.28) which the project will also address (paras.
4.07-4.13).
2.14     With regard to consumer electronics, domestic demand can support
production at reasonable scale of some major *onsumer items (radios, black-
and-white and color TVs) as well as major inputs for these products such as
color picture tubes and glass shells that are used in color picture tubes.
Export of some consumer items to other developing countries has begun and
can be expanded to many consumer products, such as black and white TV,
which are at the lower end of the technology scale and whose production is
being relinquished by producers in more developed countries where the
demand has stagnated or declined.
2.15     In the critical area of integrated circuit production,
particularly at very high levels of technical difficulty such as VLSI
chips, Indian producers face much the same difficulties as for "high tech"
professional electronics products: closely held, fast-changing
technologies, and a requirement for a high level of R&D capability which in
turn requires the availability of high-tech supporting services, and
increasingly costly investment due to rising scales and capital
intensiveness. India has been trying to develop a microelectronics
capability, particularly for large scale integrated circuits through
Semiconductor Complex, Ltd. (SCL), the DOE-administered wafer fabrication
plant in Chandigarh that was completely destroyed by fire in February,
1989. Though in production for more than four years and capable of
exporting simpler ICs such as clock chips, it had not begun to achieve
competitive efficiency. The Government is now assessing how best to
replace this loss.
D. Policy Environment
2.16     Past Policy Framework.  The very high prices and variable quality
of electronic products have largely been the result of the industrial and



-7-
trade policies followed until recently. These policies, which were an
integral part of the industrial policy framework that emerged in the late
sixties and early seventies, emphasized self-sufficiency, indigenous
technological development with minimal recourse to foreign technology,
reservation of key products to the public sector, concessions to small-
scale producers and pressure for the regional dispersion of production.
These policies in electronics, resulted in a capability to produce a large
number of products in each of the electronics segments. However, they
imposed major constraints on the development of an efficient electronics
subsector:
- The industrial licensing system severely regulated entry and
restrained growth of the most efficient producers. Larger firms,
especially those subject to the Monopolicies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Act (MRTP) and Foreign Exchange Restrictions Act (FERA)
were inhibited from expanding. Some 24 product areas including
some that needed scale for efficiency (especially in consumer
electronics and components) were reserved to SSIs. Exit of
inefficient firms was discouraged by a combination of labor
regulations, restrictions on asset transfer and bank lending
practices. These policies and procedures, together with those
limiting total domestic production capacity to the perceived size
of the market, restrained domestic competition in important
product areas.
- The reservation of some segments to the public sector
(telecommunications and defense) eliminated private-sector
competition and allowed inefficient monopolies to develop;
- The emphasis on technological self-sufficiency led to backwardness
in processes and products. The policy climate did not encourage
foreign collaborations and many joint ventures involved technology
sufficient to enter production but not to update thereafter.
Restrictions on royalty payments and other limitations did not
provide sufficient incentives to encourage foreign firms to enter
intc joint ventures especially those firms with proprietary
technology in the more sophisticated areas;
- The trade and protection policies, which resulted in extremely
high levels of effective protection (d&te to high tariffs and the
banning of competing imports), prevented alternative sources of
potential competition from developing and discouraged exports,
which could have exposed the industry to international trends and
competition;
- The high level of indirect taxes contributed to higher production
costs, and the complicated structure of these taxes hampered the
development of exports because it was difficult to identify the
indirect taxes to be rebated or otherwise offset; and
- By encouraging geographic dispersal, the Government policies
hindered concentration of the industry, which was vital to
developing a strong supporting infrastructure.



-8-
2.17     Recent Pollcy Reforms.  The Government has recognized the
importance of electronics--not only for its direct contribution to
industrial output and employment but also as a source of productivity
lmprovements in manufacturing and other sectors--and has singled out this
subsector for policy changes to achieve efficient growth. A series of
major policy changes dealing with different electronics segments commenced
with the Policy on Electronics Components in 1981, and led up to the
Integrated Policy Measures in Elee.tronics (March, 1985), which consolidated
previous pronouncements and made additional fiscal and licensing reforms.
A major reform in computer software followed with adoption in December,
1986, of the Policy on Computer Software Export, Software Development and
Training. Incremental improvements have continued to be made since then.
Electronics has also benefitted from the series of discrete policy actions
initiated since 1985 applylng to all industries which cumulatively have
significantly improved the policy environment for all industries. These
reforms have been complemented by some liberalization of the financial
sector, especially in capital markets (paras. 2.31-2.33).
2.18     Of the policy reforms affecting electronics, most important for
electronics has been the gradual liberalization of the regulatory system to
lift restrictions on entry and enterprise growth. Components and consumer
electronics have been specifically delicensed, which has meant that they
could undertake new investments without having to go through complex and
time consuming Government procedures to obtain an investment license.
Other electronics segments benefit from the recent increase in the general
licensing minima from Rs. 50 million (US$3.3 million) to Rs. 150 million
(US$10 million). For industrial projects generally, delicensing was
extended to units importing up to 30% of input needs, up from 15% in the
past. In areas still subject to licensing, more flexibility has been glven
to adjust both output mix and capacity. Licensing procedures have been
simplified. DOE introduced "single point" scrutlny of project applications
in computers and industrial products in 1984, and computer software in
1986. Access to imported capital goods for electronics has been assured by
placement of much of the specialized equipment used by electronics firms on
open general license (OGL), which has meant these items can be im.ported
without prior clearance from the Government. Reservation of products
reserved for small scale industry, which included many types of components,
has been virtually eliminated.
2.19     The product areas open for investment to electronics firms subject
to the MRTP Act (which subjects them to different types of anti-monopoly
regulation) has expanded from components to include all segments except
consumer electronics. Electronics has benefited from the general increase
in the threshold level for a firm to be classified as monopolistic. 2./
Telecommunications equipment formerly the exclusive preserve of the public
sector, was opened in 1984 to the private and joint sector for manufacture
of equipment at subscribers premises (i.e. telephone handsets, EPABXs) and
in 1988 was broadened further to include some of the remainder, including
rural exchange and transmission equipment (for public sector firms with
State Government ownership greater than 50%).
2/ The level of a firms total assets at which it is considered to be a
monopollstic for the purpose of Indlan regulatory laws was lncreased ln
1985 from Rs. 200 million (US$13.3 million) to Rs.l billion (US$66.7
million).



-9-
2.20     Domestic deregulation has had a major impact in increasing
domestic competition in electronics as evident from the ex-factory price
drops in some of the major products. Color TV set prices have fallen by
60% since 1984 when large scale production began. Microcomputers prices
have dropped by nearly 50% in just the last two years. In
telecommunications equipment the large public sector firms have improved
marginally and partly due to competition from newly established private
sector firms. Pressure on domestic profits as a result of competition has
also helped to increase the incentive to export (see para. 2.22). In
parallel with deregulation has come improved access to foreign technology,
critical to electronics which now accounts for 20% of foreign
collaborations. Restrictions have been lifted entirely on foreign
ownership if equity is less than 40%, and greatly reduced on the types of
technology firms are U.llowed to import.  These measures have dramatically
increased foreign co'laborations, which reached 173 in 1985 and grew to 260
in 1987 compared with an average of 10-15 a year in the mid-1970s. Foreign
collaborations have become more attracti  -t ioreign partners because of
the 1987 increase of the royalty ceiling From 5% to 8%.
2.21     In the area of trade policies, quantitative restrictions (QRs)
have been greatly reduced for components, which are now mostly on OGL to
actual users and have been eliminated entirely in the case of software.
The July, 1988, action to allow all industrial items on "limited
permissible" to be purchased under Import Replenishment (REP) license has
essentially eliminated this category as a quantitative restriction to users
willing to pay the additional premium, currently around 20%, which accrues
to REP license sales. The import duty structure has been largely
rationalized, with raw materials generally at 45%, processed parts at 60%,
components and peripherals at 80% and final products ranging from 90% to
150,.
2.22     The incentive to export has recently grown as a result of three
factors: overcapacity in a number of products, especially in passive
components (carbon film resistors, for example) following deregulation;
improvement of export policies and administration which began in 1986; i/
and the adoption of a more flexible and realistic exchange rate policy
leading to a real effective exchange rate that has depreciated more than
30% since the end of 1985. In response exports of electronics products
from the domestic tariff area (i.e. excluding free zones), which had
stagnated by 1984 have more than tripled in value since then, growing from
2.7% of total production in 1984 to 3.9% in 1987. With regard to the tax
system, GOI has reduced and simplified corporate taxes; implemented a
modified value added tax (MODVAT) that eliminates the cascading effect of
indirect central government taxes for most products and facilitates
indirect tax deduction for exports, and rationalization of tax incentives
for small scale industries.
2/ A detailed review of recent changes in export policies and
administration are given in India: Export Development Proiect Staff
Anoraisal Report. Report No. 7603-IN, paras. 2.09-2.19.



-10-
2.23     As a result of the pioneering improvements in electronics policy
framework which began in 1981 and the more recent general policy
improvements that date mostly from 1985 onwards, production and investment
have greatly increased, especially from the private and joint sectors.
Electronics production, which had grown in real terms at nearly 13% between
1975-80 increased to more than 18% from 1980-85, and to 25% from 1985-1987.
Electronics investment, as measured by the commitments of the two major
all-India financial institutions, the Industrial Development Bank of India
(IDBI) and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI), which provide about 80% of project term financing for medium and
large firms in this segment, had increased in the period 1983-85 to more
than six times the level of a 1977-79, and in 1986/87 to more than double
the rate of 1983-85. Noreover, the composition of electronics financing
has changed: private and joint sector investment, which was less than half
the total commitments of these institutions in 1977-79 is now more than
80%.
E. Policy Constraints
2.24     The policy improvements to date are encouraging a more efficient
industry that has promise in many areas of becoming internationally
competitive. Despite the improvements discussed above, however, additional
reforms will be needed to ensure that cost competitiveness and quality of
Indian electronics products will approach international standards. The
June, 1987, Electronics Sector Report (Project File, No. 1) provided an
agenda for further change to achieve these objectives. The recommendations
included: progressively eliminating quantitative restriction on imports
and at the same time gradually reducing customs duties to compel dormestic
firms to upgrade their products, improve efficiency and lower price:3 to
meet world price and quality standards; simplifying and eventually
eliminating domestic content requirements under phased manufacturing
programs (PNPs); eliminating the remaining disincentives that restrict
access to foreign technology leaving firms free to choose technologies
appropriate for production and market conditions, with minimum Government
involvement; extending capacity delicensing to industrial electronics,
computers and telecommunications; and removing remaining HRTP clearance
requirements for product groups where scale is needed for efficiency.
2.25     The study also emphasized the need for an easement of industrial
exit restrictions to complement the measures taken to improve entry. While
recognizing that the changes for this purpose are needed in banking, labor
regulations, and bankruptcy procedures that go well beyond the electronics
industry the study suggested that the electronics industry might be
selected for priority treatment. The study underlined the importance in
the longer run of extending MODVAT to a more comprehensive value-added tax
system; the need to persuade the states to harmonize state level taxes with
the VAT system and to eliminate discrimination between local and out-of-
state production which have become an important source of distortion that
is fragmenting capacity in this industry. The study also pointed out the
need to lift or reduce restrictions on location to allow economies of
agglomeration to be realized.



-11-
2.26     Though this is a large agenda for change, there has been steady.
though incremental progress in implementing it, even since the Sector
Report was issued. It has taken the form both of broad industrial measures
that affect electronics, and specific measures concerning only electronics.
These include: reiucing further the licensing restrictions on MRTP firms;
raising the threshold on the imported materials percentage that subjects a
firm to licensing; extending delicensing to microcomputers, peripherals,
and monitors; rationalization of the tariff structure for computers and
computer peripherals; reduction of the indigenization objectives of the
phased manufacturing program for all industries from 90% to 708; and
elimination of QRs on a broad range of products for firms willing to pay an
additional premium. As a result of the sector study and project
preparation, dialogue has been established with DOE and other Government
agencies on policies for this sector that is contributing to the change
that is taking place. A Bank loan to support this industry's further
development is well justified on the basis of improvements made before and
during the project preparation period. The project will provide a context
for a continuing dialogue with DOE and other Government agencies on a
number of fronts as the results of project financed technical assistance
and studies are discussed. These concern the key areas of software and
manpower development as well as a range of specific issues (paras.
4.19-4.20) involving import tariff levels, indigenization, standardization,
dissemination of information technology, etc.
F. Manpower Constraints
2.27     Skill requirements for electronics are far higher than for
industry as a whole. Nearly 30% of the electronics work force possess
technical degrees at bachelor level or higher; in the case of computer
software, about 90% of the work force are engineers. The most important
basis for Indian competitiveness is the potential availability of higher
level skilled, technically trained manpower at low cost. Indian
electronics experts have proved their competence abroad, and in India their
costs are less than most other developing countries with significant
electronics industries. However, except for a few top-level institutions
such as the five Indian Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institute
of Science, which export about 30% of their graduates, and the DOE managed
Center for Electronics Design and Technology (CEDT), Bangalore, the quality
of training that is being provided for middle and higher level
professionals is seriously deficient in practical application, iwith the
result that extensive training, often of a year or more, must be provided
by individual firms before higher level technical staff can be used
productively. The lack of quality of instruction is rooted in a number of
different factors: theoretical bias of curricula, shortage of teachers
with practical experience, lack of opportunity to receive industry
experience during the formal training period, lack of funds for well-
equipped laboratories and workshops, and the lack of linkage with existing
industry.
2.28     In the computer software industry, where India's potential
competitive advantage may be greatest, the industry faces an absolute
shortage of staff as well as an upgrading problem which is clearly evident
from discussions with firms in the industry. DOE estimates that the



-12-
programmers. systems analysts, computer engineers, and similar types of
specialties needed by the end of the Seventh Flve year plan period will
have reached more than 33,000 compared with an output from formal training
institutions during that period estimated at little more than 9,000.   The
Government's software export policy (para. 2.17) recognizes this
constraint and has recommended not only an expansion of public educational
institutions and establishment of three new CEDTs, but also new incentives
to upgrade the private-sector training and educational institutions. The
project includes a component to support the Government's objective of
improving the quality of the output of middle and higher level manpower,
focused primarily on upgrading the electronics and computer science
programs at a carefully selected group of engineering colleges (the
principal source of higher level technical engineering manpower) and
polytechnic institutes (the main source of middle-level technicians such as
programmers, factory technicians, and repairmen). See paras 4.06-4.12.
G. The Financial Sector _/
2.29     Historically, India has followed relatively conservative monetary
and financial policies. The main objectives have been to mobilize domestic
savings on a large scale, contain inflationary pressures and achieve a
pattern of investment conforming to the Government's economic and social
priorities. These oLjectives have been pursued through several mechanisms.
First, interest rates have been administered through the Reserve Bank and
the interest rates paid on commercial bank deposits and other savings
instruments as well as the lending rates have been kept positive in real
terms. Second, the commercial banking system's scope for credit creation
has been tightly circumscribed. Third, a system of quite rigid credit
allocation guidelines has been used to direct funds to earmarked industries
and social sectors. Within this policy framework, the financial system has
grown rapidly over several decades and the nation's traditionally high
savings rates have been accompanied by significant financial deepening.
Savings rates have risen steadily from about 168 of GDP in the late sixties
to an average of 23% since 1980. However, this success on the resource
mobilization side contrasts with the more mixed results in resource
allocation both in terms of their impact on economic efficiency and the
financial condition of lending .,.nstitutions. The evidence suggests that in
conjunction with restrictive industr4al policies, the credit allocation and
interest rate policies encouraged inefficient patterns of investment in
industry.
2.30     As of December 1986, commercial bank credits of Rs 49 billion were
officially classified as being extended to "sick industries" which have
negative net worth. Outstanding credit to sick industries alone are about
15.7% of commercial banks' credit to industry and 8.1% of their total
outstanding credit. The situation in the DFIs is similar; in 1985 IDBI's
outstanding loans to sick industries were about 11% of its portfolio. In
addition to the sick industry problem, the collection ratios on other
A/ World Bank, India: Credit and Capital Markets Study, Report
No. 6661-IN (February 27, 1987), provides a comprehensive analysis of
the Indian financial sector.



-13-
industrial and agricultural lending have been decreasing. The problems are
being further exacerbated by increased competition faced by many industries
resulting from the ongoing industrial liberalization. Together with
deteriorating portfolio quality, the operating spreads of financial
institutions have narrowed as recent interest rate adjustments have
resulted in lower average lending rates and higher funding costs. Thus
there is a need to rationalize the system of financial sector controls and
improve the institutions' operational flexibility and profitability. In
recognition of these problems the Government has since 1985 set up several
committees to study the various financial markets and recommend ways of
improving the working of the financial sector and their reports are
providing a basis for an ongoing process of reform. 5/
2.31     In the last few years, the Government has encouraged the
development of new and more appropriate funding instruments and markets to
finance industry; thus, it has encouraged a shift away from bank loans to
more capital market funding of both private and public sector industrial
firms. First, restrictions on the purposes for which companies could issue
securities were progressively relaxed to allow flotation of debentures to
fund new companies, mergers/acquisitions and working capital. Second, the
quantitative limit for issues exempt from capital issues controls was
doubled to Rs 10 million and listing requirements were eased. Third,
smaller firms were given improved access to the non-convertible debenture
market by the raising of the interest rate ceiling on their issues to 15%
from 13.58. Fourth, in an effort to encourage public sector firms to raise
funds on the capital markets, these firms were given the freedom to
undertake public debenture issues even though their shares may not be
listed.
2.32     Measures to diversify the markets and improve the attractiveness
of issues by start-up firms have included the introduction of new
instruments such as Cumulative Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS). These
securities count as equity, carry a 10% dividend and are convertible into
straight equity after three to five years. Also liquidity has
increased--particularly in the debt markets--with the major public sector
investment institutions playing an important role in maintaining secondary
markets. Finally, the Government has introduced legislation to protect
investors and boost confidence in the markets, and new institutions such as
a stock holding corporation have been set up to simplify the purchase of
securities. The introduction of further capital market reforms is expected
soon.
2.33     In response to the various changes in regulations and fiscal
incentives the capital markets have grown rapidly in the 1980s, and
particularly since 1985. The equity market took off in 1980/81 when the
amount issued rose 242% to Rs 2 billion as a result of FERA legislation
which indigenized ownership of foreign firms. Since then the primary
1/ These are the Chakravarty Committee to Review the Working of the
Monetary System (1986); the Patel Committee on the Operations of the
Stock Exchange (198_; the Vaghul Working Group on the Money Mark-cs
(1987) and the Hussain Committee on the Carital Markets (1988).



-14-
market has grown fat. The volume of equity issued (including rights and
preference shares) quintupled to Rs 8.8 billion in 1986 from Rs 1.77
billion in 1982. The debenture market also grew significantly over the
sme period when the amount isaued more than doubled to Rs 5.9 billion from
Ru 2.4 blllon. In general, the relaxation of guidelines controlling
debenture issues brought down financing costs to companies, especially the
cost of working capital, in comparison to bank loans. At the same time the
yields to investors on these securities were higher than those paid on
comparable bank deposits. These capital market developments have
encouraged financiai. institutions to expand their activities to leasing,
mutual funds, credit cards and other higher income earning activlties to
compensate for the declining marglns on their basic lending activities.
2.34     Th  Baking Syste. The Indian financial system is highly
segmented with different roles clearly earmarked for the various
institutions. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has a wide-reaching role in
t!,e system. In addition to traditional central banking functlons, it has
broad regulatory and policy implementatlon functions. The financial system
is overwhelmingly in the public sector. There are currently about 30
private sector Indian banks and about 20 foreign banks which together
comprise the private banking system. However, these banks are dwarfed by
the huge public sector ones, both in terms of size and geographic spread.
The private sector banks and foreign banks account for only about 4.3% and
4.5% respectively of total commercial bank assets. The remaining 91.2% is
accounted for by 28 public sector commercial banks.
2.35     In spite of the increased role of the capital markets, the
financial sector is still dominated by the banking system. Commercial
banks have the lead role in resource mobilization and together with the
Development Banks, they are the biggest source of funding for industrial
investments. As of June 1987, the Scheduled Commercial Banks / had total
deposits of over Rs 1 trillion.
2.36     The Commercial Banks' scope for creating credit is strictly
limited by reserve and liquidity ratio requirements which currently channel
about 51% deposits into compulsory investments in the securities of
Government and public sector institutions at below-market rates.
Furthermore they have limited discretion over the direction of their
lending as RBI credit allocation guidelines account for about 77% of total
deposits.
2.37     Under this system, the commereial banks are a major source of
funds for the public sector through their purchases of securities issued by
the central and state governments, public sector companies and all-India
financial institutions, which satisfy Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
requirements set by RBI. The strict control of bank operations has had
some unintended effects. Apart from promoting inefficient resource
allocation and fostering rigidities, the system has had a negative impact
on commercial banks' profitability, because the net interest income they
fJl There are currently 50 Scheduled Commercial Banks and they account for
about 95% of gross bank credit.



-15-
receive Is only slightly more than their administrative costs. In fact the
commercial banks' profits are therefore largely derived from unfunded items
such as fee income on international trade, foreign exchange commissions and
gains on portfolio trading activities. The comercial banks have been
given greater flexibility as a result of reforms announced in October and
November 1988. These reforms have: (a) removed the Interest rate ceiling
on working capital loans; (b) given customers the freedom to change banks;
and (c) effectively removed the restrictions previously imposed on the size
limit of working capital and term loans the commercial banks are able to
provide. As a result 04 the new freedom to set interest rates, the banks
have been able to lower the interest cost to the most credit worthy
customers to 16', while slightly increasing the rates charged relatively
weaker credits.
2.38     As a consequence of the Chakravarty Committee recommendations, RBI
has been adjusting the interest rate structure by increasing the interest
rates paid on public sector bonds held by commercial banks as SLR
requirements bring public sector borrowing rates closer to market rates.
While this rationalization does not appreciably affect the profitability of
the comercial banks, it significantly increases the costs of the
development banks which raise resources through selling their bonds to the
commercial banks. Given this, and for other reasons, it would be
appropriate to extend the same flexibility to set rupee lending rates,
which has been given to the commercial banks, to the development banks.
2.39     The Indian developmen1t finance system comprises national and
state level development banks and investment institutions. At the national
level the predominant development banks are Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI), The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Limited (ICICI) and Industrial Finance Corporation of India. In addition
the Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank), was set up in 1982 to provide
working capital and term finance for exports, having taken over those
functions from IDBI; the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India
established in 1984 has replaced the Industrial Reconstruction Corporation
of India with responsibility for rehabilitating sick units. The national
or All-India investment institutions are Life Insurance Corporation of
India (LIC), Unit Trust of India and General Insurance Corporation of
India. At the state level, funding is provided by the State Indisstrial
Development Corporations and State Financial Corporations. These
development finance institutions (DFIs) are the major source of term
lending to industrial firms, and the vast majority of their lending is to
private sector firms. As at March 1987, these institutions 2/ had
disbursed about Rs 290 billion, 75% of which was to the private sector.
Annual sanctions and disbursements were Rs 81 billion and Rs 56 billion,
respectively, up from Rs 66 billion and Rs 49 billion in the previous year.
2.40     The three main all-India DFIs (IDBI, ICICI and IFCI) accounted for
75% of total disbursements by the development finance institutions in
1986/87. They follow a consortium approach to project financing in which
the institutions periodically meet in order to co-ordinate matters of
Z/ Eximbank data not included.



-16-
policy, business, procedures, processing applications, appraisal and
follow-up of projects. One institution is assigned responsibility AS "lead
institution" for project financing. The lead institution appraises the
project, discusses wit,, other participating institutions, arranges for
consortium financing (which is governed by pre-agreed rules concerning
size), provides assistance on behalf of all participating institutions
against single documentation, supervises the end-use of assistance, and
maintains follow-up as long as loan balances are outstanding. This system
limits competition between the DF-s but greatly facilitates project
administration.
2.41     The industrial term lending institutions have, in recent years,
been faced with an increasingly riskier lending and investment environment.
The state-level institutions have been weakened over time by poor
collection performances. The direct lending portfolios of all development
banks, state level and all-India, have come under increasing pressure as
their borrowing costs have risen along with the rise in administered
deposit and public bond rates. Their financial conditions have
deteriorated as their clierts have had to adjust to a less regulated and
more competitive environment, and steady depreciation of the exchange rate.
At the all-India level these adverse developments have been partially
offset by the leasing business and other higher-yielding activities
undertaken by these institutions and more recently improvements in
collection rates so that so far, their profitability has been maintained.
2.42     Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS). The DFIs previously
on-lent their foreign currency borrowings, on a back-to-back basis, with a
mark-up of 1.5% to cover costs of administration and risks, with the
interest rate and foreign exchange risks borne by the sub-borrowers. Given
the steady depreciation of the rupee and volatility of foreign exchange
rates in the last few years, sub-borrowers have borne extremely high, and
often highly unpredictable, effective repayment rates. The absence of a
well developed foreign exchange currency market in India has meant that
private sector borrowers have limited means to protect themselves against
such risks. As a consequence, these firms' debt-servicing capacities have
been impaired, which in turn has negatively affected the foreign currency
loan portfolios of the lending institutions. By 1987, the demand for
foreign currency loans had fallen dramatically; foreign currency sanctions
by ICICI fell an estimated 34% in that year.
2.43     The Government, in conjunction with the major DFIs (IDBI, ICICI,
and IFCI), has responded to the situation with the development of an
Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS) which commenced April 1, 1989,
under the management of IDBI. Under ERAS, the DFIs will move to a currency
pooling system for their foreign commercial borrowings.   Sub-borrowers
will pay a rupee-denominated rate made up of: (a) the weighted average
interest cost of the DFIs foreign borrowings; (b) a premium in respect of
the estimated foreign exchange risk; and (c) the DFI's intermediation
spread of 2.0%. The scheme has commenced with an initial rate of 15%, 1I
above the present term lending rate of the DFIs. The rate will be reviewed
every six months and adjusted as necessary to cover the foreign and
interest rate costs, based on international interest rate and currency



-17-
movements, subject to an lnitial cap of 18%. Thus, each sub-borrower would
have a floating rate sub-loan, subject to the cap. The actual ERAS rate
affecting loans already made, and tne initial rate on new loans and the
ceiling rate for new loans will be adjusted quarterly. ERAS will be
optional and sub-borrowers will have the right to borrow in a given
currency and assume the attendant foreign exchange risks. The Government
has agreed that the rate will be adjusted as necessary to cover the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks. It has also agreed that if due to large
fluctuations the fund runs into a deficit in the short run, the Government
will make advances into the fund and be repaid when the fund is in surplus.
2.44     Financing Electronics Firms.  The sharp division in the present
financial system between the provision of working capital financing, which
is the responsibility of the commercial banks, and project financing, which
includes fixed assets but only 25% of permanent working capital, frequently
leads to delays and occasionally to liquidity crises because the commercial
banks us8e quite different, more conservative and sometimes less flexible
financing norms.   For electronics firm these problems tend to be more
severe because of their financing characteristics. First, electronics
firms in India on average require almost 50% more gross working capital for
the same level of fixed assets as manufacturing firms as a whole
(reflecting dependence on imported materials, and low fixed capital
intensiveness) and are therefore more likely to be hurt by delays or
shortages in working capital finance.  Second, imported raw materials are
roughly twice as important an element of working capital as all of industry
(reflecting that many components and most raw materials cannot economically
be produced locally) which requires access to a higher level of foreign
exchange to finance working capital that is often more difficult to obtain
than local currency. Finally, electronics firms have been much faster
growLig because of rapidly expanding domeetic markets; thus commercial bank
credit limits tend to be quickly outgrown.   Electronics firms just
starting up, that comprise more than 85% of the value of investment
financed by the DFIs, are hit especially hard as they often face teething
problems in start up due to the need to assimilate new technologies and
adjust to the unce'tainties of fast-changing markets.
2.45     The project proposes to address these financing difficulties by
lodging the responsibility for ensuring adequate financing for both fixed
assets and permanent working capital for clients of this project with the
DFIs until a project is operating at capacity (see para. 4.04). This
reduction in financial institution specialization, approved by RBI on a
pilot basis for this project, could have a liberalizing impact on the
industrial finance structure as a whole, if RBI thereafter introduces the
change more widely.



-18-
III. THE BANK'S ROLE IN INDUSTRY
A. Previous Bank Lending to Industry
3.01    The Bank has made 19 developw-nt finance loans amounting to US$1.4
billion through financial intermediaries, (mainly ICICI and IDBI), for
onlending to private and joint sector firms engaged in all aspects of
industry. Fourteen operations concerned ICICI alone. Three (Credit
356-IN, and Loans 1511-IN and 1260-IN) were channelled through IDBI to
State Financial Corporations (SFCs) and State Industrial Development
Corporations (SIDCs) for relending (Loan 2928-IN the Industrial Finance and
Restrt'cturing Project) approved in 1988, uses both intermediaries. The
Bank'= experience with IDBI and ICICI in implementing past projects has
been discussed in recent Project Completion Reports (PCRs) and the
conclusions have been taken into account in project preparation.
3.02     The first development finance project in India specifically to
promote exports, Industrial Export (Engineering Products) Project, (Loans
No. 2629-2930-IN), for US$250 million approved in September 1985, was
designed to support the growth of exports of engineering products through
provision of term finance through ICICI (US$160 million) and partieipating
commercial banks (US$90 million) and the creation of productivity and
marketing funds for exporters. As of January 31, 1989, about 72% of the
loan to ICICI had been sanctioned. The slow performance has been due
primarily to the reluctance of sub-borrowers to bear the currency pool
foreign exchange risk at relatively high interest rates. The fact that
exports of engineering exports have expanded much less rapidly than
projected at appraisal is also contributing to rlow disbursements. In
February 1988, the project was modified to allow GOI to bear the foreign
exchange risk for a fee and relending these funds in local currency. As a
result of this modification, the remaining funds are expected to be
committed by ICICI ly August, 1989.
3.03     The most recent DFI project under implementation, the Industrial
Finance and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2928-IN), which became
effective in August, 1988, provides US$310 million in financial and
technical assistance support to IDBI (US$205 million) and ICICI (US$105
million) to help them meet their requirements for long term foreign
exchange resources and to strengthen their capacity to appraise projects
effectively in a less regulated environment, cope with the more difficult
portfolio management problems stemming from the adjustment process, and
mobilize resources through new financial instruments in more competitive
financial markets. The project also provided US$50 million to the major
Government steel company, SAIL, for technical assistance to upgrade
technology and improve efficiency. The project is proceeding smoothly.
3.04     The Bank Group has also provided US$3.2 billion for projects in
the fertilizer, cement, and petrochemicals subsectors where opportunities
existed for the Bank to support policy reforms at the subsectoral level and
to finance economic investment. Implementation of these projects has been



-19-
generally satisfactory with all projects currently under implementation
e.pected to have satisfactory rates of economic return and, despite some
initial delays, to be fully disbursed by the respective closing dates.
B. The Bank's Future Jending Strategy
3.05     The Bank has had an active industrial sector work program and
prepared a number of sector reports on such subjects as industrial
regulation, tetbhology policy, export promotion, public enterprise
management and credit and capital markets .nd a number of subsector reports
including electronics, automotive products, steel, capital goods and
fertilizer.  The 1987 CEM, IMnia:  An Induatrializing  conomy in Tr iti    /
also focused on the development of the industrial sector and supplied the
broad outlines of a reform program. Many of the issues in these reports
will continue to be discussed with the Government in the context of future
operations.
3.06     The future lending program for industry is primarily based on the
sector work and will thus include:
(i) industrial finance projects which will serve as a focal point for
evaluating and discussing with Government overall progress on
industrial and financial policy reform as well as addressing issues
in the financial institutions;
(ii) export, technology and industrial energy conservation projects
which will serve as a focal point for evaluating and discussing
with Government overall progress and improve the policy, financial
and institutional support for activities in these key areas; and
(iii) subsector projects which will provide policy, technical and
financial support for economic investments in areas where improved
efficiency will have implications for the growth of the whole
industrial sector (e.g., petrochemicals, electronics, cement and
capital goods).
3.07     In all of these areas, loans are basically linked to the policy
reforms that are being undertaken either in designated policy areas such as
exports, technology, etc. or in the policies that affect a specific
subsector. The basic criterion that determines the decision to go ahead
with a loan is whether the policy environment is conducive to efficient
investments in the area or subsector that is being supported. Thus, the
lending strategy involves supporting investments in areas where policy
improvements have already been undertaken, consistent with the conclusions
of the previous sector work.
1/ Report No. 6633-IN (March 13, 1987).



-20-
C. Electronics in Bank's Lending
3.08     Electronics has been included among the subsector projects in the
Bank's industrial program for India because it has already reached
significant size, has good potential for rapid growth and efficiency and
will have significant impact on other sectors throughout the economy. For
these reasons, the Government has given electronics high priority in the
Seventh Five Year plan and in the Eighth Five Year plan now under
preparation. It has shown a willingness to make major policy changes,
greater than for almost all other industrial sectors, to foster the
industry's sound development with the objective of eventually reaching a
level of internationally competitive production.
3.09     The project will complement two other contemporary projects which
deal with related issues. The Industrial Technology Development project (a
FY90 project whose appraisal mission returned early April, 1989) addresses
technology issues that will impact upon electronics in the areas of risk
financing and R&D infrastructure. The Export Development Project which was
approved by the Board on May 12, 1989 2/ includes financing of technical
assistance in promising export areas, including software development for
exports.
2/ See Staff Appraisal Report No. 7603-IN, April 20, 1989.



-21-
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01     A major goal of the Government's program of policy reform is to
foster an industry that will become internationally competitive. This
project is intended to initiate a long term relationship with India to
support this goal and the specific objectives set for the project reflect
this. The project would: (a) provide technical and financial support to
assist the two largest DFIs improve their capability to identify, appraise
and finance sound projects as well as to improve performance of existing
firms in this sub-sector; (b) assist in upgrading the training of medium
and high level technical and professional manpower needed for the rapid and
efficient growth of the industry; (c) help to lay the basis for long term
continued improvement in the policy environment for electronics; and (d)
help to shape India's strategy, and prepare projects to support, software
development.
B. Project Descrigtion
4.02     The project would comprise:
(i)  A credit component for investment in electronics industry
exnansion and ugnrading of about US$420 million under a new
"single window" approach providing both fixed investment and
permanent working capital which will allow each firm to deal with
only one financial institution to ensure adequate total project
financing;
(ii) Skilled manMower development and training of US$26.8 million for
provision of equipment, training, and related assistance through
DOE as grants to selected engineering colleges, polytechnic
institutes and Centers for Electronics Design and Technology
(CEDTs) to upgrade preparatory training of electronics and
software engineers and technicians, and for industry training to
upgrade engineers already employed; and,
(iii)  Technical assistance of US$3.0 million for (a) a study, semina:cs
and project identification for the development of the computer
software industry including software exports; (b) a program of
seminars and studies to expose Government and industry leaders to
worldwide developments in electronics and help to establish a
stronger factual basis for addressing future policy and investment
issues; and (c) training and consultancy assistance to the DFIs to
upgrade project preparation and implementation capalbility in this
industry.



-22-
C. Term Credit to Expand and U12rade Electronics Capacity
4.03     Under this component, the Bank will finance US$202 million in
lines of credit to cover estimated foreign exchange costs of both fixed
assets and permanent working capital to viable projects in electronics and
related areas involving estimated total investment of $420 million in both
the private and joint sectors for medium and large scale projects. It will
use two major financial institutions as intermediaries, IDBI and ICICI,
which provide 70%-80% of the term financing to projects of this size in
this sub-sector.
Single Window Credit Line
4.04     To ameliorate the problems for electronics projects under the
present system of divided responsibility for financing term loans for
projects and working capital (para. 2.44), sub-projects financed under this
project would be provided with both fixed asset financing which is about
70% of the total, and the incremental permanent working capital
requirehents which constitutes the remaining 30%, through a single
financial institution, up to the time that a firm reaches full capacity
production. This approach would eliminate the inconvenience of dealing
with several financing agencies. It would also reduce the risk that a
firm's working capital needs are not taken care of because of differing
approaches in assessing and monitoring those needs. Because firms would
receive term loans for permanent working capital, however, receivables
would be excluded because they can be conveniently handled separately by
commercial banks under the present system of overdraft facilities and bills
discounting. Exclusion of receivables is in line with RBI's long term
policy that eventually they should be financed only by way of bill
discounting. The DFIs have agreed, that they would use the subsidiary loan
from GOI to finance working capital (see para 6.02) only when part of a
Bank financed investment project for fixed investment. The "single window"
approach to project financing, though commonplace elsewhere in the world
because of the trend away from Government mandated specialization, is new
for India. RBI l is confirmed to the DFIs its willingness to permit its
introduction to India on a pilot basis, restricted to the electronics
sector under this project. RBI would consider broadening its application to
other industrial sectors after the experience from this project can be
evaluated in terms of the benefit of improved project financing against the
costs in terms of loss of control in meeting other objectives.
4.05     A credit line of the size proposed can be committed within three
years. The '-otal demand for electronics investment in projects presented
to the DFIs ..ached US$233 million equivalent in 1986 climbed to about
US$250 million in 1987 and reached US$290 million during 1988. The
combined foreign exchange requirements for those three years reached US$340
million. Investment has kept pace with, if not exceeded, increases in
production which is expected to grow steadily at 18% - 20% over the next
four to five years. The DFIs have completed an analysis of projects likely
to be submitted over the next three to four years and have identified some
40 possible projects involving investment of about Rs.10.4 billion (US$691
million) with a foreign exchange requirement for fixed assets alone of



-23-
Rs.464 million (US$309 million). These estimates appear reasonable. Under
present projections, the Bank loan would finance 46% of the estimated
foreign exchange requirements for investment and working capital of
electronics sub-projects over the next three years.
D. Manoower Development and Training
4.06     Though middle and high level skilled technical manpower is
generally available in India, skilled technical and engineering manpower
with specific, relevant, practical training in electronics, computers,
programming, systems engineering and related skills is a serious constraint
to expansion in the potentially most competitive segments, especially
computer software (para 2.28). To help alleviate this constraint this
component would aim: (a) to improve the quality of pre-service training of
middle level skilled manpower (technicians) and higher level skilled
manpower (engineers) in electronics and computer software; (b) to improve
the quality of engineers and technicians already employed; and (c) to
strengthen the links between pre-service training centers and industry.
4.07     To achieve these objectives this component would have the
following main elements:
(a) Improvement of electronics and computer software training programs
at a selected group of 14 engineering colleges (ECs), which are
the principal source of high level technical manpower for this
industry, a selected group of 12 polytechnic institutes (PI) which
provide mid-level technical manpower such as rupair and
maintenance technicians, and programmers, six Centers for
Electronics Technology and Design (CETD). This element would (i)
develop up-to-date learning materials in areas such as product
design, computer science and software development, etc. where such
materials are lacking; (ii) introduce hands-on product design and
development exercises and training; (iii) modernize teaching
facilities and equipment; and (iv) provide practical training for
teachers that have no industry experience. Base costs are US$18.0
million.
(b) Upgrading of practicing engineers and technicians through (i) the
conduct of state-of-the-art seminars for middle and higher level
technical employees of small and medium scale firms and (ii)
support of continuing engineering education programs. Delivery
institutions for this element would be the Indian Institutes of
Technology (IIT) at Bombay and Delhi and the Indian Institute of
Science, Bangalore. A fourth institute satisfactory to the Bank
will be selected later. It is also expected that the special
expertise in training technicians of the Nettur Electronics Center
(NEC) in Bangalore will be utilized. Base costs are US$2.0
million.
(c) Strengthening of links between industry and the ECs through (i) a
program of industrial attachment for students; and (ii) the
provision of part-time teachers from industry. Base costs are
US$1.7 million.



-24-
4.08     This is a pilot project dealing with a relatively small number of
institutions. In the case of the strengthening of pro-service training
(para. 4.07 (a)), which is the largest single element, a smail group of
qualified institutions were identified by Bank consultants from among
approximately 300 ECs and 600 PIs on the basis of crlteria which emphasize
close proximity to clusters of computer and other electronics firms, the
capacity of the institution to implement the project and the strength of
links between the institute and industry. All ECs are associated with
autonomous universities; the PIs are state government institutes
administered by State Ministries of Education. The institutions that DOE
has identified to participate in the project, limited to 32 (14 ECs, 12 PIs
and 6 CEDTs) have been reviewed and are satisfactory. Agreement was
reached that the institutions finally selected must be satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.09     Each EC or PI will be attached to one of four higher level
training institutions, which will act as a 'resource center' to provide
technical and administrative support, including development of needed
curricula and course materials, conduct of teacher training, assistance in
facility and laboratory development, and development of the technical
information base to support training and laboratory work. Three resource
centers have been identified by DOE which would work with the ECs: the IIT
Delhi, IIT Bombay, and IISC, Bangalore. They are satisfactory to the Bank.
All three centers have a long history in technical education and close ties
with industry that qualify them as resource centere. They are the same
institutions that will implement the component for training engineers
already in-service (para. 4.08(b)). The identification and contribution of
the fourth resource center will be determined in September, 1989.
Agreement was reached that the Resource Centers finally selected must be
satisfactory to the Bank.  The PIs will be supported by IIT Delhi and the
IISC Bangalore. Because of the special expertise of the Nettur Technical
Training Foundation Electronics Center (NEC) in teaching electronics, it is
expected that NEC would also be assisting with the PIs.
4.10     In connection with its role to expand and upgrade manpower
training, DOE has established and staffed two other CEDTs in addition to
CEDT, Bangalore, located in Srinagar and Aurangabad, to provide technical
support and training to the electronics industry, particularly smaller
firms. When necessary physical facilities are completed, these two
institutions will be assisted by the project to develop their capability to
provide seminars and training for industry in their regions as part of the
component to provide in-service training. Four additional CEDTs, located
in Imphal, Gorakpur, Calicut, and Mahali, are being established but not yet
staffed by DOE. They would be eligible for modest assistance to qualify
them for the same purpose, when judged ready by the relevant resource
center.
4.11     Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation of this
component will be the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
which has just been set up in the Department of Electronics, assisted by
the four resource centers. The PIU will be responsible for procurement of
equipment and materials, maintaining project accounts and coordinating the



-25-
curriculum development, teacher training, and state-of-the-art seminars.
It will be staffed by a Project Director to be appointed by June 15, 1989,
about four project coordinators, a part-time procurement officer and
accountants. The PIU would be under the overall guidance of a steering
committee consisting of representatives from the computer software and
electronics industry, the four resource centers, the Ministry of Human
Resources Development (MHRD) and other concerned GOI ministries, the Swiss
Development Cooperation (which helped prepare the project and will be
cofinancing it) and chaired by the Department of Electronics. It was
agreed that the staffing of the PIU and membership of the Steering
Committee would be satisfactory to the Bank and would be established in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
4.12     The estimated costs of this component including contingencies is
US$26.8 million (Rs.402 million), of which approximately US$11.0 million is
for equipment and the balance for local training, books, software and
equipment maintenance, which would be needed over a five year feriod. The
basis for calculating contingencies is given below, para 4.24. Additional
information and detailed costing for this component are provided in
Annex 2. Working papers are in the Project File, No. 2.
E. Technical Assistance
4.13     The technical assistance component includes three elements, one
focused on the future development of a key segments of electronics, the
second with improving future policies generally, and the third with
upgrading the capability of the DFIs:
(US$ million)
(i)  Software capability development                      0.9
(ii)  Seminar program                                      0.7
(iii)  Training and technical assistance for the DFIs       1A4
Total                                           3.0
(i) Software Capability Development
4.14     As noted above, para. 2.13, computer software, especially software
for exports, is one of the most promising potential areas for expansion in
the India electronics industry. Its development, however, is inhibited by
inadequate knowledge of markets and how they can best be developed, lack of
access to technology which is fast-changing, a shortage of trained and
experienced manpower and infrastructure bottlenecks especially in
communications. The project would finance a phased technical assistance
program of studies, seminars and project identification to help relieve
these constraints and provide a better basis for expansion of both domestic
and export software capabilities. It is expected that the outputs of this
program would include: (a) detailed information regarding both foreign and



-26-
domestic markets, their suitability for the Indian industry, and how best
they can be penetrated; (b) guidelines for training and skill development;
(c) recommendations regarding software standards; (d) recommendations
regarding level of service, pricing, and standards in data communicatlons;
and (e) mechanisms for helping to import, absorb and diffuse technology,
including proposals for establishing one or more productivity centers run
and, over time, financially supported by the domestic software industry.
4.15     This program will be carried out by DOE in close consultation with
the Bank in accordance with a schedule, organizational arrangements and
procedures to be agreed with the Bank. Further details are contained in
Annex 3(A). A working paper and draft terms of reference are also
available (Project File, No. 3).
(ii) Seminar Projr_j
4.16     The objective of this program is to improve the info mational and
analytic basis for investment and policy decisions concerning the
electronics industry. The first part of this component would be a two week
seminar in the United States in "Silicon Valley," organized with the
assistance of consultants in which key senior Indian Government, banking
and industry representatives can review first-hand important worldwide
developments in the electronics industry and then try to apply this
knowledge to the Indian situation. This seminar would draw upon experience
developed by the Bank in connection with a similar program held in October,
1987, for the People's Republic of China. This would be followed, in the
second part, by a series of short seminars in India in different cities
more widely attended for which the initial two week seminar would provide
background material and a common set of assumptions regarding worldwide
developments for the follow up seminars in India. Each seminar in India
would be focused on specific topics which are relevant to the concerns of
industry and Government, for which discussion materials would have been
developed in the course of studies prepared by local and/or international
consultants financed under the project.
4.17     This program is expected to be launched ln the fall of 1990 when
the results of the software study could be used as inputs. This program
will be undertaken by DOE in close consultation with the Bank on the basis
of a schedule, organizational arrangements and procedures to be agreed with
the Bank. Additional details are prcvided in Annex 3 (B). A concept paper
for this program is in the Project File, No. 4.
(iii) Training and Technical Assistance for the DFIs
4.18     To complement the "single window" line of credit (para. 4.05) this
project would provide technical assistance to the two DFIs. Its objective
would be to upgrade their capability to identify and appraise viable
projects in this industiy, including projects to restructure and improve
efficiency of existing clients who need to adjust to increased competitlon
brought on by deregulation. For this purpose, agreement has been reached
with the DFIs, based on a working paper discussed during appraisal (Project
File No. 3), on a three year program consisting of the following elements:



-27-
(a) access to data bases and telated services to provide firm level
information about suppliers and foreign partners. information about
technology, and current data on production, trade, prices, etc; (b)
identification studies for selected future products that might be financed
by the DFIs which will help them to develop appropriate criteria of scale
technology etc. needed to be competitive; (c) a training program for
operational staff to expose them to new products and processes in the
electronics sector and thereby upgrade their capability to identify and
appraise new projects; and (d) diagnostic assistance using domestic and
international consultants to assist the institutions in dealing with client
firms that need to upgrade technology or improve efficiency.
4.19     The DFIs agreed to prepare a work plan satisfactory to the Bank
for its implementation by September 30, 1989. Additional details and the
requirements that would need to be met are given in Annex 3(C). The
concept paper for this program is in the Project File, No. 5.
F. Project Cost
4.20     Total project cost is estimated at $ 450 million (Rs.6.7 billion),
of which $212 million (Rs. 3.2. billion) is estimated to be in foreign
exchange.  No contingencies have been calculated for the credit component
(US$ 420 million) to finance expansion and modernization because it is a
line of credit.  In the event of escalation in the average cost of sub-
projects, the total number of sub-projects would be reduced.
4.21     For the manpower component, the total cost is estimated to be
US$26.8 million, in which provisions for contingencies total 15% of
baseline costs.  Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% for the
equipment categories and 5% for the others to allow for adjustments in the
scope of work. Price contingencies are basedA on projections of annual
inflation rates, for local costs and foreign costs as follows: for local
costs - 8% for 1989/90, 7% for 1990/91 to 1992/93, 6.5% for 1993/94 and
1994/95, for foreign costs--5.3% for 1989/90, 5.0% for 1990/91, 4.1% for
1991/92 to 1994/95. Cost estimates for the manpower component are detailed
in Annex 2. The technical assistance component costs are estimated to be
US$3.0 million in which provisions for contingencies total to 16% of base
line costs. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of baseline
costs and price contingencies on the same basis as for the manpower
component. Cost estimates for technical assistance are detailed in
Annex 3. A summary of total project costs is given in Table IV-1.



-28-
Table IV-1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Million Rs.            Million USS
Project Components        Local  Foreig   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Forei n
Credit line for Expansion
fixed assets           2162    2250    4412   144.1   150.0   294.1    51
working capital         111     _780    1891      4A     5      126.1    42
Sub-total                  3273    3030    6303   218.2   202.0   420.2    48
Manpower development        254      89     343    16.9      6.0    22.9    28
Technical Assistance         8       3       39       .5     2.1     2.6    82
Sub-total base costs        262     120     382    17.4      8.1    25.5    32
physical contingencies   18       11      29      1.2     0.7     1.9    26
price contingencies       19      17      36     1.3              2.4   62
Sub-total                   299     148     447    19.9      9.9    29.8    34
Grand Total                3572    3178    675    238.1   211.9   450.0    47
a/ Figures may not add due to rounding.
G. Financing Arrangements
4.22     Table IV-2 gives the financing plan.  The proposed Bank loans of
U-S210 million would finance each component as follows: 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of the credit component; 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
the manpower development component, and a small portion of the local costs.
The balance of the credit component would be financed as follows: sub-project
sponsors, 22% (which includes 30% of the fixed asset financing in the form of
equity but only a small proportion of the local permanent working capital
financing which would be financed mostly by loans from financial institutions
and other sources in accordance with current practice), and others, including
capital markets, 16%.
Table IV-2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million in current prices)
Borrowing
Proiect Component         IBRD   GOI   DFI   Firms   Others   SDC   JGF   Total
Credit line for
Expansion
Fixed assets          150.0   -    14.4    88.3    41.4    -       -     294.1
Working capital         52.0   -    36.2     9.5    28.4    -      -      126.1
Sub-total           202.0   -    50.6    ,7.8    69.8    -       -     420.2
Manpower development       8.0   2.6   -        -       -     16.2   -       26.8
Technical Assistance   s -    =    ..           -       0 . 0 .1     2.7   3.0
Total               210.0   2.8  50.7    97.8   6'9.8  16.2   2.7   450.0
% of Total           46.7   0.6  11.3    21.7    L5.5    3.6   0.6   100.0



-29-
4.23     For the balance of the manpower development component,
cofinancing of SF24 million (US$16 million) has been requested from the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC); the Government would provide US$2.6
million.  The Bank and SDC financing would be passed on to training
institutions as budget allocations. The Government expects to enter into
an agreement with SDC, which is to become effective no later than December
31, 1989. For the balance of the Technical Assistance component, financing
of US$2.7 million is expected from the Japan Grant Facility (JGF), of which
an estimated $2.4 million would be for foreign exchange costs. The balance
of local costs for technical assistance would be provided by GOI
(US$200,000), and the DFIs (US$100,000).



-30-
V. THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
5.01     With the advent of more competitive conditions in both the
financial and industrial sectors, the role of the development finance
institutions (DFIs) in industrial finance has acquired renewed importance.
In spite of the rapid growth of the capital markets in India and the access
to them by a large number of established industrial firms, the DFIs are
still the single most important source of industrial project finance
generally, and for the electronics industry in particular. Their
assistance to industry extends beyond the simple provision of funds and
both the Government and the private sector have come to rely on them for
in-depth knowledge of financial and industrial developments in the Indian
economy. IDBI and ICICI are the two largest DFIs in India, together
accounting for over 50% of total term investment financing to industry by
the financial institutions. Both corporations are making good progress
with the implementation of the policy and strategy statements and the
collection programs which were agreed on during negotiations of the
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project.
A. Industgial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
5.02     IDBI, which was established in 1964 as a wholly owned subsidiary
of RBI, is now fully owned by GOI. As the lead institution for industrial
investment finance, IDBI operates as a direct lender and as an apex
refinance institution for the state financial institutions and the
commercial banks in their investment lending operations. It also acts as
the central coordinating agency for the operations of the other two
national level DFIs (ICICI and IFCI) and the term lending activities of the
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) the General Insurance Corporation (GIC),
and the Unit Trust of India (UTI). Its importance as a direct lender is
demonstrated by the fact that it accounted for about 39% of total
industrial investment lending by the All-India and state level financial
institutions in 1987/88. Its promotional role covers a wide range of
activities at the national level and, through specialized institutions, on
the local level. These activities aim at the development of both sound
industrial investments ar.d financial practices, and include industry
potential surveys, entrepreneurship development programs, consultancy and
advisory services and expanded development banking training programs.
5.03     IDBI's 21 member Board, appointed by Government, represents a
cross section of GOI officials, industrialists and commercial and
development bank executives. While the Board is responsible for internal
policies and reviews IDBI's overall operations and its interaction with the
public and private industrial sectors, full powers are delegated to an 11
person executive committee, headed by the Chairman of the Board. IDBI's
organizational structure comprises six administrative units, each headed by
an executive director/advisor. The Direct Finance Operations group is
responsible for appraisal, disbursement, supervision, billing, collection,
and recovery of all direct lending operations.   The proposed project will
be implemented by this group.



-31-
5.04     IDBI's financial assistance to the industrial sector is effected
through three basic areas of operations. First is direct finance in the
form of loans, underwritings, direct capital subscriptions or guarantees.
This is available to projects costing at least Rs 50 million (approximately
US$3.4 million) and accounts for about 44% of IDBl's portfolio. Directly-
financed projects are generally cofinanced with other all India term
lending institutions. Second is refinanced loans (31% of IDBI's
portfolio), which are originated as loans to small- and medium-sized
businessos by state-level institutions and banks which bear the risk on
these operations. Third is rediscounted bills (19% of portfolio), covering
sale of machinery, financed by banks on a deferred payment basis, and
bearing corresponding bank guarantees.
5.05     IDBI has had a history of satisfactory profit performance and its
overall financial condition is sound, with a consistent high level of
liquidity and debt servicing capacity. Its assets more than doubled over
the last five years to Rs 138 billion as of FY88, while revenue has grown
at an average rate of 20% to Rsl2.4 billion over the same period. Return
on average net worth was 18.5%, up from 16.5% in FY87. Return on average
assets has also increased from 1.4% in FY87 to 1.5% in FY88.
5.06     IDBI directly finances medium and large electronics projects, and
in its role as apex institution for the state financial institutions,
refinances small scale electronics projects. Total sanctions for large and
medium projects for 1987 reached Rs 705 million (US$55 million) which
represents about 5% of its total direct project lending and accounts for
30%-40% of term financing for projects of this size in India in
electronics. About 55% finances privr;:e sector firms, 30% joint sector and
the rcmaining 15% goes to public sector enterprises owned by the states.
Electronics project identification and appraisal is undertaken by small
teams which include engineers, economists and financial specialists. About
six operational staff have become specialized in this sector although they
also handle projects in the power sector. The quality of appraisals is
generally good. However, as electronics is a new, rapidly developing
sector they tend to lack technical experience. While they are able to draw
upon local electronics specialists to review project proposals from a
technical point of view it is difficult to find experts with the relevant
practical operating experience, and very few have up-to-date knowledge of
changing conditions worldwide. Data and information on technological and
marketing developments internationally is not easily available and is
usually out-of-date. The proposed technical assistance program (paras.
4.19-4.20) will help to upgrada IDBI's capability in this sector.
Additional details on IDBI including past and projected financial
statements are presented in Annex 4.
B. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corgoration of India Limited
ICICI
5.07     ICICI, established in 1955 under private ownership to provide long
term finance to private industry, is now Government controlled with 81%
ownership by public corporations. ICICI has developed into one of the
country's major financial institutions and it is the main provider of



-32-
foreign currency term loans to Indian firms. The corporation offers a wide
rsnge of financial services largely to the private sector and in recent
years it has diversified out of its traditional functions into areas such
as merchant banking, leasing, hire purchase, venture capital and credit-
rating services. In addition to its operational activities, ICICI also
plays an important developmental role. It advises the Gover.ment on
industrial issues, carries out sector studies and develops new ideas and
methods of improving the financial markets.
5.08     ICICI is well managed and operates effectively under an
experienced fifteen member board, with balanced representation from
Government, public, and private industry. The Board meets periodically to
set out and review ICICI's financial and operational policies and to decide
on major project proposals in which exposure in a single enterprise
exposure would exceed Rs 35 million (US$2.3 million). Management of ICICI
is entrusted to the Chairman and Managing Director, who is supported by two
deputy managing directors.
5.09     Organizationally, ICICI is divided into five administrative
groups: operations, planning, finance, special operations and
administration. The operations group, headed by the General Manager, is
responsible for lending including appraising new projects, supervising and
monitoring ongoing loans, and making collections. The proposed project
will be implemented by this group.
5.10     ICICI's growth and financial performance has been impressive.
Over the last five years (1982-1987/88), its assets increased to Rs 36
billion while net profit more than tripled from Rs 240 million to Rs 770
million. Consequently, ICICI's return on equity averaged about 25% during
this period, while return on average assets increased from 1.6% in FY83 to
2.4% in FY88. However, due largely to reduced interest spreads following
increased borrowing costs, ICICI expects lower returns in the immediate
future years. The proposed ERAS arrangement should help in raising spreads
on foreign lending and help prevent deterioration in financial performance.
5.11     ICICI's fast-growing term lending to electronics, all to medium
and large scale projects in the private and joint sectors, reached Rs.615
million in 1987, accounting for nearly 7% of its total direct lending.
Roughly comparable to IDBI it, too, accounts for 30% - 40% of term lending
to electronics projects of this size in India. Electronics project
identification and appraisal is handled by five operations officers who
also handle projects in the chemicals area. Like IDBI the quality of
appraisals is generally good. Operations staff experience similar
problems, however, in getting access to experienced experts and to sources
of up-to-date infirmation, particularly regarding international
technological developments. The technical assistance proposed under this
project (paras 4.19 - 4.20) would help to remedy this. Additional details
on ICICI including past and projected financial statements are presented in
Annex 5.



-33-
VI. THE PROPOSER LOAN
A. FTrms and Cgoditions
6.01       An amount of US$210 million would be lent in three loans:  to
GOI (US$8 million); to IDBI (US$101 million); and to ICICI (US$101 million)
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a repayment period of 20
years, including 5 years of grace.
6.02       Relending Terms and Conditions.  The Bank loans to ICICI and
IDBI for fixed investment and permanent working capital would be relent to
sub-borrowers in foreign exchange at a rate 2% above the World Bank rate or
in rupees at the adjustable rate under the foreign exchange risk
administration scheme (ERAS) as described in paras 2.42-2-43, which is
currently 15% with a cap rate of 18 percent. These rates are highly
positive in real terms, given the present and projected inflation rates of
8. The proceeds of the Japanese and Swiss grants for the manpower and
technical assistance components would be passed on to the implementing
agencies as budgetary allocations.
6.03       Sub-groject Eligibility Criteria for the DFIs.  An eligible
enterprise is defined as an industrial enterprise, which is engaged or
intends to engage in manufacturing, processing or exporting. An eligible
sub-project would involve the establishment, expansion, and/or balancing,
modernization, and replacement proposal of an eligible enterprise in the
electronics subsector and related areas including computer software
development, systems integration, and precision engineering services,
including tool rooms testing, designing, quality control and research and
development. An understanding was reached that projects for central public
sector firms in telecommunications would not be presented for financing by
IDBI under this project since the Bank has dealt with this sub-sector in a
different context. All appraisals would include detailed sub-project
analysis showing the economic and financial rates of return of sub-project
proposals, which, to be acceptable to the Bank, would generally have a
minimum economic rate of return of 12% and a financial rate of return of
15%. An enterprise should have an acceptable capital structure such that
with the new loan the debt:equity ratio of the enterprise would not exceed
70:30.
6.04       Sub-loans Terms and Conditions.  The relending terms and
conditions reflect the policies of the institutions and agreements reached
by the Bank as follows:
(a) sub-loans maturities would be at least 3 years and up to a maximum
of 15 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years.
(b) the free limit will be US$8.0 million for the fixed investment
under a single project;



-34-
The DFIs also gave assurances that working capical sub-loans would not
normally exceed 5 years. Under these guidelines, 15% of the sub-projects
by number accounting for 50% of the total component are expected to be
above the free limit.
B.  Administrative Procedures
rocurem
6.05     DFI Credit Componert.  Under the DFI credit component, for
contracts exceeding US$8 million equivalent to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan, the financial institutions would insist that
sub-borrowers follow international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. For purposes of bid comparisun under ICB,
local manufacturers would receive a 15% price preference or the level of
customs duties, whichever is less. Given the fast changing and proprietary
nature of electronics technology in many product areas it is expected that
a number of large projects would be inappropriate for ICB and would be
procured by either direct contracting or limited international bidding
(LIB) procedures as is permitted for in appropriate cases under the Bank's
Guidelines. In such cases the DFIs would provide justification that shows
that ICB is not practicable and the procedures followed are reasonable
under the circumstances to achieve economic procurement. For contracts of
less than US$8 million, procurement would be in accordance with the
financial institution's internal procedures which have been used on a
number of previous Bank projects and are acceptable to the Bank.
Presently, the financial institutions require their borrowers to solicit at
least three competitive and responsive quotations for all procurement. For
each withdrawal application, the concerned financial institution would have
to certify that the agreed procurement procedures have been followed. The
firnncial institutions would maintain records of the method of procurement,
the bid evaluations and awards for each sub-project. The Bank would
periodically review these records on a sample basis in the course of
regular project supervision. The table below shows procurement method by
category.



-35-
PROCUREMEnT METHODS
(USS Million)
Project Element                     Procurement Method               Total
ICB      LCB      Other       N/A      Cost
Credit Component                                420.2               420.2
(Bank)                                       (202.0)             (202.0)
Manpower Training             6.1      10.4        6.7      3.6      26.8
(Bank)                     (5.5)     (2.5)                         (8.0)
Technical Assistance                               2.7      0.3       3.0
(Bank)
Total                       6.1      10.4     429.9       3.9     450.0
(Bank)                    (5.5)     (2.5)   (202.0)             (210.0)
Note: ICB - International Competitive Bidding
Other - Includes limited international bidding, international shopping
direct purchase anid procurement of consulting services under
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
6.06     Manpower Develooment and Training.  Under the manpower development
and training component, procurement will be as follows:
(i) Goods and Eguipment. International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures would be followed for all contracts in excess of
US$200,000 equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of either
the Bank loan or SDC grant funds. Equipment in smaller packages,
and aggregating to a maximum of about US$2.5 million would be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) under government
procurement procedures acceptable to the World Bank. Equipment
packages expected to be below US$200,000 but exceeding US$20,000
and aggregating to a limit of US$1.0 million containing highly
specialized items not available in India, may be awarded under
Limited International Bidding (LIB). Off-the-shelf items not
exceeding US$20,000 for each package and aggregating to a maximum
of US$1.0 million could be purchased through international and
local shopping procedures involving the solicitation and
comparison of at least three competitive price quotations.
(ii)  Furniture and consumable training materials would be procured by
LCB except for contracts below US$20,000 where prudent shopping
procedures would be used. Educational materials would be
purchased through prudent shopping procedures directly from
publishers or local distributors.



-36-
(iii)  Services.  The services of local specialists and consultants would
be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultwnts by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency. "
(iv)  Bank  Review.  Draft bidding documents, master equipment lists
Indicating packages and cost estinates, and bid evaluations and
awards would be subject to review by the Bank for contracts valued
at US$200,000. Terms of reference for local specialists and the
annual programs of work of the RCs would also be reviewed by the
Bank.
6.07     For the technical assistance to be financed by the JGF and the
Bank, the employment of consultants would be in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Appointment of all consultants and
their terms of reference unless otherwise agreed, would be subject to the
prior approval of the Bank.
Disbursements
6.08     Term Lending Component.  Under the term lending component, for
fixed asset and permanent working capital financing the Bank loan would
finance either 100% of the foreign costs financed by the sub-loans of IDBI
and ICICI to eligible enterprises or 80% of the amount of the sub-loans.
6.09     To facilitate disbursements, special accounts, one for GOI (US$0.5
million), one for IDBI (US$10 million) and one for ICICI (US$10 million),
would be established. After effectiveness of the loans, the borrowers
would request the Bark to deposit into the Special Accounts the stated
amounts, which would serve as the revolving funds. The Bank would
replenish the Special Account on the basis of requests for reimbursements
on a quarterly basis or whenever the amount in each Special Account reaches
50% of the respective initial deposit. Reimbursement to the financial
institutions would be made through the Special Account against Statements
of Expenditure (SOEs) for sub-loans which are below the free limits.
Supporting documentation under SOEs would be retained by these institutions
and would be subject to review by Bank supervision missions, and to annual
audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank, such audit to be submitted within
4 months after the close of each financial year. For all sub-loans in
excess of the free limit requiring prior Bank approval, IDBI and ICICI
would fully document withdrawal applications when requesting replenishments
to the Special Account.
6.10    Manpower Training and Technical Assistance Components. Disbursement
of funds provided by the Bank, SDC and JGF would be made against the
following categories of expenditures: (a) for equipment, furniture, books
and journals and consumable materials, as appropriate, 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory when purchased directly
from manufacturers or 80% of other local expenditures; (b) for local
training, local specialists and foreign specialists, 100% of total
expenditures. Disbursements for equipment under contracts valued at more
than US$200,000, and for all consulting services would be against full



-37-
documentation; disbursement for contacts less than US$200,000 and books and
educational materials would be made against SOEs.
6.11     In accordance with the Bank's current disbursement profiles for
development finance projects, it is expected that the US$202 million loans
for the credit component will be committed in 3 years, disbursed over six
years and closed on December 31, 1995. The manpower and technical
assistance components will both be disbursed within five years.
Reporting and Audits
6.12     IDBI and ICICI would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
on commitments, disbursements, collections, and arrears under the project
and for the institution as a whole. IDBI and ICICI would also submit
financial statements in conformity with the Bank's standard reporting
requirements, including the submission of audited financial statements,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within 4 months of
the close of each financial year. Audit of the IDBI and ICICI SOEs would
be submitted within 4 months, and of the GOI SOEs within 9 months after the
close of each financial year. After full disbursement of a sub-loans, the
financial institutions would prepare a sub-project completion report,
comparing actual vs. projected costs and benefits of the sub-project.
After closing the DPI loan, the financial institutions would prepare and
submit an operational audit report of the experiences and results under
this component (including DFI technical assistance) within 6 months.
Operational audit reports covering the experiences and results under the
Manpower component and the Technical Assistance component (except for DFI
technical assistance) would be prepared by the Government within 6 months
of the completion of those components.
C. Project Benefits and Risks
6.13     Benefitg.  Policy reform for the electronics industry over the
past eight years--greater than for almost any other Indian industry--is
intended to make this industry more competitive internationally, and
through lower costs and prices, to disseminate the benefits of information
and telecommunications more widely domestically. This project will support
these objectives in several ways. First, it will improve the quality of
electronics investment by strengthening the capability of the DFIs to
identify and appraise viable new projects, and upgrade the technical
capability of existing firms. Second, it will provide improved training
for the principal resource this industry requires, skilled manpower, which
in turn will raise productivity and facilitate transfer of technology that
is critical for this industry. Third, the project will develop programs
and identify projects to help relieve constraints on the highly promising
computer software industry, and expand its capacity, especially in exports.
Finally, through the above studies, the technical assistance to the DFIs
and through a series of seminars specifically for Government and industry
leaders the project would foster a more informed dialogue within India
about the future of this industry, and how it can become a viable part of
the electronics industry world wide.



-38-
6.14     The credit component to the DFIs would provide long term finance
to about 30 sub-projects resulting in total investment of about US$420
million and employment of about 12,000. It would also initiate reform in
the system for financing industrial investments to meet both investment and
working capital requirements which could have far-reaching impact if
extended to other industries. Diagnostic assistance under DFI technical
assistance would help about 50 existing firms become more efficient. The
manpower development component would upgrade the capability of some 34
technical institutions to provide improved training for about 4,000
technical professionals per year at medium and highly skilled levels.
6.15     Risjk. Although policy reform is relatively well advanced in this
industry, it should go farther, especially in the area of promoting greater
import competition and reducing prices of final products. Thus one risk of
this project involves uncertainty over the speed of implementation of
further needed reforms. Slow implementation would commensurately reduce
the growth and efficiency of the industry itself, and reduce the efficiency
in the rest of the economy if use of information and telecommunication
technology is discouraged by high costs and prices. The program to improve
screening and appraisal capacity of the DFIs will help to reduce this risk.
So also will the technical assistance program which will provide a better
factual and analytic basis for investment decisions and policy improvements
that may be needed. A second major risk concerns the rate of utilization
of the credit line under the proposed Exchange Rate Administration Scheme
(ERAS). Since dhe attempt to link the relending rate to the cost of funds
through floating rates is new, the Government, the DFIs and the Bank will
monitor developments closely to ensure that the relending rate adjusts
properly to market conditions and adequately meets the needs of the
Government to be compensated for bearing the foreign exchange and interest
rates risks, and the needs o, the financial institutions and sub-borrowers
for some predictability in their financial plaTming. Finally, concerning
the manpower component there is a potential risk of delays in
implementation because the organizational set up is new, and the
institutions are not familiar with Bank procedures. Additional supervision
at startup will help reduce this risk.



-39-
VII. AGRE13MENTS AND RECONtlNDAION
AresmentsL
7.01     Agreements were reached with Government
(a) with respect to ERAS:
(i) to adjust the ERAS rate as necessary to cover the interest
rate and foreign exchange risks (para 2.43); and,
(ii) to make an advance to the ERAS fund if the fund runs into a
deficit in the short-run due to unexpected exchange rate
movements which would be repaid when the fund is in surplus
(para 2.43).
(b) with respect to the Manpower Component:
(i)  to establish a Project Implementation Unit and Steering
Committee in accordance with a timetable and staffing
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.11);
(ii)  to select, and support under the project, resource centers,
engineering colleges, polytechnic institutes and centers for
electronics design and technology satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 4.08-4.09); and,
(iii)  to enter into an agreement with the Government of
Switzerland for cofinancing which will become effective no
later than December 31, 1989, (para. 4.23).
(c)  to follow acceptable procedures on procurement, disbursement,
reporting and auditing (paras. 6.06, 6.09-6.10, 6.12).
7.02     Understandings were reached with Government with respect to the
Technical Assistance component, to conduct the programs on software
industry development and support of electronics investment and policy
development in accordance with a schedule, organizational arrangements and
procedures to be agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.15, 4.17).
7.03     Agreements were reached with the Development Financial
Institutions:
(a)  to follow procedures for administering ine term lending component,
acceptable to the Bank, including repayment terms of no more than
fifteen years (five year maximum for permanent working capital
loans) including up to three years of grace, a free limit of US$8
million, minimum financial and economic rates of return of 15% and
12%, respectively, working capital financing only as part of
investment project financing (paras. 6.02-6.05, 6.09, 6.12); and,



-40-
(b) to provide the Bank with a satisfactory work program for the
implementation of the DFI technical assistance component by
September 30, 1989 (para. 4.19).
Re-commendatio
7.04     The proposed Electronics Industry Development Project constitutes
a suitable basis for Bank loans of US$8 million to India, of US$101 million
to IDBI and US$101 million to ICICI at the Bank's standard variable rate,
and terms of 20 years including 5 years of grace.



-41-
ANNEX 1
MIA
BLECTROcs-C lnDUSTRY DEVKLONUmT PRCUBCT
INDIA ULECTRONXCS PUODUCTION. 1980-87
(RI million)
1980     1981     1923      1231     12h      1985      1986     1987
Consumer Electronlcs                     2,140    2,461    3.371    3,330    5,6?0   10,437   12,750   18,200
Control, Xnstrumeat.tion
and Industrial                        1,300    1,590    1,900    2,510    3,350    4,040    5,250    6,850
Computer Systems                           300      325      510       780      920    1,550    2,800    3,750
Comunications & Broadceastin            1,850    1,542    2,550    2,700    3,205    3,801    5,040    7,?00
Aerospace & Defense                        680      692    1.084    1.262    1.490    1.960    2220   _3.000
Total Equipment                         6,265    6,575    9,425   10.550   14,835   21,650   28,060   36,900
Components                              1,630    1,731    2,141    2,300    3,030    4,100    5,100    7,000
Export Processing Zones                    1655     2SS       483      750        1.035  841    1.437   1.300
Total Electronics                       8,060    8,560   12,050   13,600   18,900   26,600   34,597   47,200
Source: Department of Electronics, Data Bank and nfomation Division.



-42-                         ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 32
ELECTRONICS INSDnXSY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
A. THE COMPONENT
Origin of the Component
1.       The component was identified in April 1986 when a World Bank mission
reviewed the findings of the Study Team on Electronics Manpower. This study
team was established by the Seventh Plan Working Group on Electronics for the
Department of Electronics (DOE). Noting the skill intensive-nature of the
electronics industry, the Study Team recognized that upgrading of the work-
force, together with improvements in financing and industrial policies, would
be necessary to improve quality and competitiveness. In view of the relatively
low level of wages, a well trained workforce would be a major factor in
improving competitiveness. For these reasons, the DOE decided to consider a
number of manpower development schemes. These included: (a) establishment of
three new Centers for Electronics Design and Technology (CEDTs); (b) develop-
ment of a manpower information system; (c) support for training programs for
medical and consumer electronics service technicians; (d) support for
electronics education in universities; (e) upgrading of engineering college
teachers; and (f) promotion of institute/industry exchanges.
2.       Following discussions with representatives of the electronics and
computer industries, educational institutes, ICICI and DOE manpower special-
ists, the mission chose to focus on the training of higher and middle level
manpower, specifically the pre- and in-service training of engineers and
technicians. This objective would support the overall aim of the Electronics
Industry Development Project, which is to assist the industry in improving
quality and competitiveness. Higher and middle level technical manpower would
play a crucial role in introducing better design and manufacturing technol-
ogies, improving quality control, establishing better distribution and
servicing systems and developing the potential for software exports in the
computer industry.
3.       To examine what was needed to be done to improve the quality of higher
and middle level manpower, a team of four consultants from industry, government
and academia, headed by Professor N.J. Rao, Chairman of the Center for
Electronics Design and Technology at the Indian Institute of Science (11Sc) in
Bangalore, analyzed the manpower and training situation. The consultants
reviewed the available reports on the demand, supply and quality of manpower
for the electronics and computer industry and the adequacy of the available
training. In November 1988, the consultants submitted their final report.l/
The report confirmed that industry needs to provide a substantial amount of
additional training for newly graduated engineers and technicians before they
are productive. In-service training programs have become a regular feature in
the larger electronics and computer firms that commit considerable resources to
I/ Manpower Development in Electronics and Computers in India, Project
Report prepared for the World Bank, by N.J. Rao, H.S. Jamadagni, S.P.
Ranade, and S.S. Suryanarayanan, November 1988.



-43-                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 32
upgrade the skills of t'aeir engineers and technicians. However, many of the
medium and small size companies do not have the resources, expertise or funds
to train their fresh engineers and technicians and must depend on the existing
continuing engineering education programs to upgrade their practicing
engineers. For all firms, large or small, the quality of their freshly
recruited engineers and technicians depends to a large extent on the quality of
the pre-service engineering education programs offered at Engineering Colleges
and Polytechnic Institutes.
4.       In India, as in most countries, basic engineering skills are acquired
in Engineering Colleges (ECs) for (under-graduate) engineers and in Polytechnic
Institutes (PIs) for (diploma) technicians. Such ECs and PIs are an accepted
and efficient way to train large numbers of technical personnel in basic
engineering skills for employment in industry and services. (Specialized and
industry-specific skills are usually learned on-the-job or in in-service
training programs). However, the consultants found that many of the ECs and
PIs that train the labor force used by the electronics and computer industry
have difficulties in keeping up with the fast changing technologies in these
industries. The reasons for this include: insufficient funds to purchase up-
to-date technical information, learning materials and equipment; insufficient
opportunities for students to get hands-on experience in product design and
develhipment; and lack of emphasis on repair, maintenance and quality control
skills. Moreover, few of the teachers in ECs and PIs have had an opportunity
to gain experience from working in industry. Many start teaching immediately
after graduation because of the serious shortage of teachers. In addition,
very few institutes have strong linkages with industry and organize programs of
training and visits in industry (industrial attachment) for their students.
5.       To alleviate some of these difficulties and improve the quality of
engineers and technicians who are being trained as well as those who are
already employed, the consultants recommended that: (a) the pre-service
training at ECs and PIs of engineers and technicians in electronics and
computer software be improved, through better provisions for obtaining the
latest technical information and learning materials, better access to modern
equipment and instruments during training, and more opportunities for hands-on
product design and development and repair and maintenance exercises; (b) the
linkages between the ECs, PIs and the industry be strengthened through
industrial attachment and the provision of part-time teachers from industry;
and (c) the in-service training of engineers and technicians be improved,
particularly in the areas of new technologies, industrial design, computer
applications, software applications and repair and maintenance through
improving continuing engineering education programs and state-of-the-art
seminars. The DOE and other concerned ministries supported the recommendations
of the consultants, in principle, and the component was appraised in
February/March 1989 by a World Bank mission assisted by electronics and
computer industry specialists provided by the Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC).
Obgletives and Scope of the Component
6.       The component would assist on a pilot scale in improving the quality
of the workforce of the electronics and computer software industry by improving
the skills and knowledge of engineers and technicians already employed or being
trained for employment in these industries and by strengthening the linkages



-44-                        ANX 2
Page 3 of 32
between training institutes and industry.  The aim is to equip the engineers
and technicians with the skills necessary to bring about the necessary
improvements in the quality ;;f products and the level of technology in the
industry. It would build on previous efforts of DOE to establish Quality
Control Centers and Centres for Electronics Design and Technology and to raise
the standards of employee training and the quality of engineering education in
the country.
Obj ectives
7.       The component will assist in:
(a)  Improving the auality of practicing engineers and technicians by
conducting state-of-the-art seminars for middle and higher level
technical employees of small and medium scale industries and by
supporting Continuing Engineering Education Programs at the Indian
Institutes of Technology of Bombay and Delhi, the Indian Institute of
Science and at the Centers for Electronics Design and Technology
(CEDTs).
(b)  Improving the auality of engineers and technicians under training at
selected ECs and PIs through a program of: developing up-to-date
technical learning materials in areas such as product design, computer
science and software development and repair and maintenance where such
materials are lacking; introducing hands-on product design and
development exercises and training; modernizing teaching facilities and
equipment; and, providing practical training for teachers who do not
have experience in industry.
(c) Strengthenin. the links between industry and engineering education
institutes through industrial attachment for students and the provision
of part-time teachers from industry.
DescriRtion of the Component
8.       The objectives will be achieved by tapping the unique expertise and
close linkages with industry of the IITs of Bombay and Delhi and the IISc of
Bangalore a fourth Resource Center, acceptable to the Bank will be selected
by the DOE and appraised before October 15, 1989. These four institutes
will act as Resource Centers (RCs) and organize seminars in state-of-the-art
technologies of interest to small and medium scale firms and expand and/or
improve their continuing engineering education programs. They will also
assist 14 selected Engineering Colleges (ECs) and 12 selected Polytechnic
Institutes (PIs) in improving the quality of training in their electronics
and computer science departments and strengthen their links with industry.
The YRCs will also support the CEDTs to expand and improve the special short
courses these centers offer for practicing engineers and technicians. These
courses aim at upgrading the skills and knowledge of the electronics and
computer industry workforce in modern technologies, equipment and processes.
One of the objectives of the Project is to improve the programs and exper-
tise of the Polytechnic Institutes in electronics and computer software.
Since the Nettur Technical Training Foundation Electronics Center (NEC) has
special expertise in this area it is expected that the services of NEC will
be utilized in the Project.



-45-                       ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 32
9.       Conducting State-of-the-Art Seminars and Supporting Continuing
En*isarin  *ducation tosrams. (Estimated base line cost, US$2.0 aillion)
(a)  In consultation with representatives of the electronics and computer
industry, industry associations and the DOE, the RC's will identify
the need in small and medium scale firms for information on state-of-
the-art topics in engineering science and technology applications and
invite well known local or international specialists (including non-
resident Indian, NRIs) in these areas to conduct a series of seminars
at convenient locations. About six such seminars sill be offered each
year for about 25 participants from industry in four different
locations in the country. In total it is planned that over the life
of the project approximately 3,000 engineers and technicians will
attend and benefit from these seminars at nominal cost to their firms.
Funds will be provided to finance most of the cost of organizing and
conducting the seminars.
(b)  To improve the opportunities for practicing engineers and technicians
to benefit from the on-going continuing engineering education programs
offered at the RCs particularly at the IITs of Bombay and Delhi, funds
will be made available to expand and improve the resources, facilities
and educational equipment required for these programs with a partic-
ular emphasis on the production of distance learning materials for
off-campus training. Also the CEDTs would be supported to start or
expand their advisory and consulting services to the electronics and
computer firms in their region. This would include the upgrading and
training of their staff, the procurement of books, technical training
materials and equipment.
10.       Provision of Special Learning Materials. Modernizing Teaching
facilities, and upgrading teachers. (Estimated base line costs, US$18.0
million)
(a)  To improve the quality and relevance of training at selected ECs and
Pls, specialists from the RCs and industry will collaborate in
producing learning materials (course ware) in areas of studies were
such materials are now lacking. The need for such materials in about
sixty percent of the courses in electronics and computer science has
been determined. About 32 courses in electronics, 9 in computer
science and 8 in laboratory practice (see the list on page and of
this Annex) have been tentatively identified where a lack of appro-
priate course materials is hampering the preparation of engineers and
technicians in ECs and PIs. The provision of textbooks and technical
journals will also be improved. In addition, tl'e selected ECs and PIs
will be supplied with an adequate quantity of technical catalogues to
make it possible for student to undertake hands-on product design and
development work. Also, suitable consulting firms will be contracted
to conduct product surveys and produce product ideas to assist the
students in designing, developing and manufacturing (on a prototype
basis) potentially commercially viable products as part of their
training.
(b)  The teaching facilities, particularly the electronics, fabrication,
and computer laboratories at ECs and the fabrication, computer,
production systems and maintenance laboratories in the PIs are in some



-46-                        AMEX 2
Page 5 of 32
cases lacking or if they are available, poorly equipped. To enable
the stadents to get hands-on experience in product development, qual-
ity control, maintenance, etc. approximately 32 electronics and 32
computer laboratories will be established or modernized at the selec-
ted institutes. Also consumable materials (parts and components)
required for the laboratory classes will be provided.
(c) To enable the teachers to guide and assist the students in the
practical laboratory work, the RCs will organize a total of 32 six to
eight-week courses for teachers of the ECs, 62 four-week courses for
teachers of the PIs, and 5 three-day exposure courses in Industrial
Design for teachers of ECs and PIs.
11.       Providing Industrial Attachment and Part-Time Teachers from Industry,
(Estimated base line cost US$1.7 million)
(a) To provide engineering students with an opportunity to learn first-
hand about potential jobs in industry, the RCs assisted by specialized
consulting firms will organize industrial attachment programs. First
a survey will be conducted to identify firms interested in partic-
ipating, determine the optimum duration of the attachment and propose
a time table that fits the academic calendar. Initially these
attachment programs will be for third year students of ECs who will
spend at least six weeks in an electronics or computer firms in their
area. Depending on the size of the firm, small groups of two to four
students will be assigned specific jobs during their attachment under
the guidance of an experienced engineer or technician designated for
that purpose. The students would be required to prepare a report on
their attachment which will be taken into account in their annual
assessment and grading. Funds will be provided to cover travel and
other direct costs for the students and for a small honorarium for the
supervisor. The attachment program if successful will be extended to
the students of PIs and to the teachers of ECs and PIs.
(b) To make it possible for the ECs and PIs to release their teachers for
training, the RCs will try to recruit experienced engineers and
technicians from industry to substitute on a part-time basis for
teachers undergoing training. It is expected that the use of teachers
from industry will benefit the students preparation for employment and
strengthen the link and cooperation between tnie institutes and local
industries. Funds will be provided to pay such part-time teachers.
B. COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMPONENT
Costs
12.      The total cost of the component is estimated at US $26.8 million
equivalent. A summary of the estimated cost by activity is provided in
Table 1 and by category of expenditure in Table 2. More detailed cost
estimates are provided on pages 14-19 of this Annex.



-47-                         -ANE2
Page 6 of 32
Table 1: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY iCTMVITY
Ru. million                  USS million
Activity            Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
1.  SOA Seminars           0.70     7.54      8.24      0.05      0.50     0.55
2.  CEEP's                17.76     3.90    21.66       1.18      0.26     1.44
3.  Learning Mate-
rials Dev.          14.65     -       14.65       0.98      -        0.98
4.  Staff Training        62.00    12.54    74.54       4.13      0.84     4.97
5. Modernizing
Facilities       115.36    64.74   180.10        7.69     4.32    12.01
6.  Industrial
Attach.            14.28     -       14.28       0.95      -        0.95
7.  Industry Teachers    10.80      -        10.80      0.72      -        0.72
8.  PIU                   18.23     0.57    18.80       1.22     0.04      1.25
Base Line costs bL       253.78    89.29   343.07      16.92     5.9S   22.28
Contingencies             34.90    24.34    S9.24      2Li       1.,.95i
Total Costs A/k/         288.68   113.63   402.31      19.25      7.57    26.82
I/   Does not include US$1.65 million equivalent in identifiable taxes.
bJ   Figures may not add due to rounding.
Table 2: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
Category                          Rs million                    US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign  Total
A. Civil Works              34.00       -        34.00      2.27    -        2.27
B. Equipment                70.10     70.10    140.20       4.67    4.67    9.35
C. Furniture                13.50      -         13.50      0.90    -        0.90
D. Books and Journals        9.08      2.27      11.35      0.61    0.15    0.76
E. kocal Training           36.12      -         36.12      2.41    -        2.41
F. ?.qal Specialists        52.40      -         52.40      3.49    -        3.49
C. Poveign Specialists       -         9.60       9.60       -       0.64    0.64
H. Maintenance               9.30       -         9.30      0.62    -        0.62
I. Coneumables              30.60      6.00      36.60      1.95    0.49    2.44
Base Line Costs A/         255.10     89.97    343.07      16.92    5.95   22.87
Contingencies               35.08     24.16      59.24      2.34    1.61    3.95
Total Costs /              290.18    112.13    402.31      19.26    7.56   26.82
A/    Figures may not add due to rounding.



-48-                         ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 32
13.      Base line costs have been estimated on the basis of February/March
1989 prices. The cost of civil works has been estimated as approximately
10% of the total cost. Furniture and equipment costs have been estimated
on the basis of actual costs of equipment for similar facilities in India
and include allowances for transportation and installation. Unit costs for
local training and local specialists have been based on standard rates used
by the GOI. The unit costs for foreign specialists have been based on the
rates used by international organizations for similar services in India and
elsewhere in the region.
14.      Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes were estimated at about
Rs. 24.75 million (US$1.65 million equivalent), and were based on current
practice of duties on imported goods (average of 30% on imported
equipment). The Government would finance all taxes and duties.
15.      Contingency allowances of US$3.95 million (about 17% of baseline
costs) have been included to account for unforeseen physical conditions and
estimated price escalation. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
baseline costs for equipment, and 5% for all other categories. Price
contingencies for local costs and foreign costs were estimated on the basis
of the projected annual rates of price escalation for local rates and for
foreign rates.
16.      The foreign exchange component of US$7.56 million (about 28% of
total costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following foreign
exchange percentages: equipment - 50%; foreign specialists - 100%; books
and consumable materials - 20%.
Einancing
17.      The proposed IBRD Loan of US$8.0 million plus cofinancing expected
from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) on a parallel basis for
US$16.2 million would finance about 90% of the total estimated cost of the
component. The Government of India would be responsible for the remaining
10% of the costs, amounting to US$2.61 million equivalent (Table 3). The
IBRD Loan would cover the foreign exchange costs and the cofinancing grant
would cover the local costs of the component. GOI has agreed to enter into
a cofinancing agreement with the Government of Switzerland which would
become effective no later than December 1, 1989.



-49-                       ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 32
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Item                GOI          IBRD            SDC             TOTAL
amount   %    amount %      amount   %      amount    %
A.  Civil works          2.61  100   -                                2.61   9.7
B.  Equipment            -           8.00   73      3.02     27      11.03  41.2
C.  Furniture            -       -                  1.00    100       1.00   3.7
D.  Books and Journals   -       -                  0.88    100       0.88   3.3
E.  Local Training       -       -                  2.87    100       2.87  10.7
F.  Local Specialists    -       -                 4.07    100        4.07  15.2
G.  Foreign Specialists  -       -                  0.77    100       0.77   2.9
H.  Maintenance          -        -                 0.76    1J0       0.76   2.8
I.  Consumables          -       -                 2.83    100        2.83  10.6
Total Costs aZ           2.61  9.7   8.00 30.0   2.6.20   60.4       26.82   100
A/     Figures may not add due to rounding.
Management and Implementation of the Component
18.      Project management and implementation would be undertaken by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established by the Department of
Electronics (DOE). Implementation would be done according to the schedule
shown on pages 20-21 of this Annex. The PIU would be managed by a Project
Director. The PIU senior staff would include next to the Project Director:
about four Project Coordinators to coordinate with the Resource Centers and
supervise the project activities at the participating institutes; a Pro-
curement Officer responsible for all procurement including equipment,
furniture, books and consumable materials; accountants responsible for
maintaining ths accounts and records. PIU staff would be assisted by
support (technical assistant) and clerical staff. The selection of the
staff for the PIU positions would be based on professional qualifications
and experience with similar responsibilities and satisfactory to the World
Bank.
19.      The PIU -ould be responsible for procuring and monitoring the
services of the four RCs which would be responsible for executing an annual
program of work prepared by the coordinator of the respective RC . This
program of work would be subject to review and approval by a Steering
Committee. The annual program of work would be based on the outline of the
services to be provided for the duration of the project contained in the
Letter of Commitment signed between the PIU and the RCs at the start of the
project. The program of work would specify the learning material develop-
ment, training, consulting and other services to be provided by the staff
of the RCs or consultants hired by them and the equipment and materials
required by the RCs to provide these services. It would also contain a



-50-                         MM  2
Page 9 of 32
time-table or schedule setting out when the services will be provided and a
budget specifying man-months of work, fees, cost of materials and over-
heads. A similar letter of commitment would also be entered between the
PIU and the CEDTs, ECs and PIs selected to receive assistance under this
project. The Steering Committee would have representatives from the
computer and electronics industry, industry associations, the RCs, the
Ministry of Human Resources Development (HHRD), other concerned government
departments, the Swiss Development Cooperation and DOE. The Steering
Committee would meet several times a year to review the annual programs of
work, budgets and the progress reports of the RCs.
20.      The PIU would also procure the equipment, furniture, books and
consumable materials on the basis of specifications prepared by the RCs and
the tender documents to be drawn up and executed by the PIU. It would
ensure that transport, installation, warranty and service would be provided
by the suppliers. In consultation with the RCs the PIU would contract,
following World Bank guidelines for the Use of Consultants, the services of
specialized consulting firms to plan and to organize the state-of-the-art
seminars and to conduct the survey and undertake the planning for the
industrial attachment. The participants to the state-of-the-art seminars
would be selected by the firms contacted by the RC's. For the teacher
training programs at the RC's the selection of teachers who will receive
training would be done by their institute in consultation with the RC's.
21.      The component would be implemented over a period of five years,
starting in the fall of 1989. During the first year the equipment will be
procured and installed, the facilities will be made ready for the equipment
and the learning materials for the teacher training courses will be
prepared. The state-of-the-art seminars would start as soon as possible
since this is an on-going program currently undertaken by a number of the
larger electronics and computer firms. The state-of-the-art seminars
supported in this project would aim at extending this type of training
program to employees of medium and small-scale firms. The teacher training
courses conducted by the RCs would start in the second year. The
development, testing and distribution cf the learning materials would be a
continuous effort for the duration of the project. The component would be
completed by December 31, 1994.
Status of Project Pregaration
22.      The preparation of the component started in June 1987 and was
completed in November 1988 when the project preparation report was
submitted by the consultants. The report was accepted by the World Bank
and SDC. The DOE and tHRD have established committees to finalize and
reach agreements on the detailed proposals of the report. It contains
proposals for: (a) the curriculum/subject areas of the electronics and
computer programs at the ECs and PIs for which learning materials need to
be developed; (b) the number and type of teacher training courses that need
to be conducted for the teachers of the CEDTs, ECs and PIs; (c) proposed
lists of laboratories and teaching facilities that need to be established
at the selected CEDTs, ECs and PIs; (d) draft lists of equipment for these
laboratories and teaching facilities; (e) the selection of the RCs; and
finally, (f) a list of ECs and PIs selected on the basis of their capacity
for absorbing and benefitting from the assistance under this component and
for their close proximity to electronics and computer industries.



-51-                       ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 32
23.      The GOI has identified the institutes which will participate in
the project which were reviewed by the Bank at negotiations and one
satisfactory. The final group of RCs, ECs, Pls and CEDTs selected to
participate must be satisfactory to the Bank. The establishment of the PIU
and appointment of a Director was also agreed upon. The GOI will provide a
timetable for the complete staffing of the PIU and appointment of a
steering committee which must be satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement
24.       Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4 below.
Table 4: EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total Cost
Procurement Method                 including
Category             ICB    LCB    Other p/      NA        Contingencies
A.  Civil works           -       2.61      -          -             2.61
B.  Equipment             5.51    4.51     1.00        -            11.03
(5.51)  (2.70)                            (8.21)
C. Furniture              -       1.00      -          -             1.00
D.  Books and Journals    -       -        0.88        -             0.88
E.  Local Training        -                -           2.87          2.87
F.  Local Specialists     -       -        4.07        -             4.07
G. Foreign Specialists   -        -        0.77        -             0.77
H.  Maintenance           -       -         -          0.76          0.76
I.  Consumables           0.57    2.26     -           -             2.83
TOTAL hI                  6.08   10.38     6.72        3.63         26.82
(5.51)  (2.70)    -          -            (8.21)
A/     includes international shopping and direct purchase.
h/     figures may not add due to rounding.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Loan.
25.      The PIU has the responsibility to assure that the equipment
procured under the project fits the requirements of the teaching programs at
the participating engineering institutes. In addition, the Consultants
suggested that for specific laboratory equipment which are used on a day-to-
day basis by students (e.g., power supplies, function generators, oscil-
loscopes, PCs etc.) the specifications include the requirement that repair
services can be provided by the suppliers. This is to ensure that component
and parts required for the relatively frequent repairs of this equipment are
readily available and down-time is limited. Equipment would be tendered
under ICB and LCB procedures. Equipment packages would be divided into two
main groups: those items to be procured in large quantities with a value
greater than US$200,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers would be given a margin of preference in
bid comparison of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual
customs duty, whichever is lower. A condition for tender availability of



-52-                        AEX 2
Page 11 of 32
repair and maintenance services in or near the engineering institutes and
criteria for evaluation and contract awarding would be the proven capability
of the suppliers to provide repair and maintenance. Another condition would
be that the equipment operates properly under local conditions. The PIU
would ensure that such requirements are spelled out in the tender documents.
26.      Equipment in smaller packages, and aggregating to a maximum of
about US$2.7 million would be procured through local competitive bidding
under government procurement procedures acceptable to the World Bank. The
same requirement for efficient maintenance and repair services would be
required from the local manufacturers.  For equipment packages expected to
be below US$200,000 but containing highly specialized items not available in
India, may be awarded under the Bank's guidelines for Limited International
Bidding. Off-the-shelf items not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent for each
package and aggregating to a maximum of US$1.0 million could be purchased
through prudent shopping on the basis of three competitive price quotations.
27.      Furniture and consumable training materials would be procured
locally through competitive bidding and for contract below US$20,000 through
prudent shopping procedures. Educational materials would be purchased
through prudent shopping procedures directly from publishers or local
distributors.
28.      Bank Review.  Draft bidding documents, master equipment lists
indicating packages and cost estimates would be subject to reviewed by the
Association. Terms of reference for local specialists and the annual
programs of work of the RCs would also be reviewed by the Association.
Disbursement
29.      The proposed loan of US$8.00 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of two years (page 13). Disbursement would be made against
category of expenditures for equipment as follows: 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory and 80% of other local
expenditures.
30.      The disbursement forecast is based on the profile of other Bank
financed education projects in the Asia region since a profile for education
projects in India has not been established due to the limited operations in
the sector. The disbursement forecast is feasible since the procurement of
equipment, furniture, books and materials which represents about 53% of the
loan and grant funds is expected to be completed after two years.
SRecial Account
31.      In order to facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be
established at the Reserve Bank of India, with an authorized allocation of
US$500,000 representing an estimated average of three months' expenditures.
Accounts. Audits and Reporting
32.      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project expenditures. The accounts will be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. The accounting
staff will be given training in disbursement and accounting procedures and



-53-
Page 12 of 32
practices followed by the World Bank. Auditing of the accounts will be
performed annually by an independent auditor and according to procedures
acceptable to the World Bank. The Special Account and accounts supporting
Statement Of Expenditure (SOE) activities would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. The SOE audit should
contain a separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals. An audit report will be submitted to the
World Bank within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The PIU wou'd also monitor progress in project implementation and report to
the World Bank each semester. Within nine months of the Closing Date, the
PIU would submit a project completion report to the World Bank.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
33.      The major benefits of the component would be:
(a)   The availability of engineers and technicians with the skills
required for the modernization and improvements of the quality
and competitiveness of the electronics and computer industry
would be improved.
(b)   The improvement of the training for the principal resource this
industry requires, skilled manpower, which in turn will raise
productivity and facilitate transfer of technology that is
critical for this industry.
(c)   There would also be a more permanent improvement of the teaching
facilities and equipment at the participating engineering
education institutes which would represent a long term benefit
with regard to the capacity of these institutes to produce high
quality engineers and technicians.
(d)   The component would also institutionalize two activities: indus-
trial attachment and the use of part-time teachers from industry
which will not only improve the linkages between education insti-
tutes and industry but also improve the relevance of engineering
education.
Risks
34.      The major risk concerns the fact that this is the first World Bank
assisted project to be implemented by the Department of Electronics. Some
delays are to be expected during the early stages of the implementation due
to the fact that the DOE would have to learn World Bank procedures for
accounting, record keeping and reporting. The other risk is that the
Resource Centers may be slow in delivering the services and the teaching
assignments they have contracted for because of conflicting obligations. To
reduce that risk the project has made funds available for the resource
centers to contract additional staff and resources from outside to
supplement their own resources and staff.



-54-
ANNE 2
Page 13 of 32
D. AGREEMMES
35.      During negotiations agreements were reached with GOI.
(i)  to establish a PIU and steering committee in accordance with a
timetable and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
(ii)  to select, and support under the project, resource centers
engineering colleges, polytechnic institutes and centers for
electronics design and technology satisfactory to the Bank.
(iii)  to enter into a cofinancing agreement with the Swiss Government
that becomes effective no later than December 31, 1989.
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEHENT
(US$ million)
IBRD                 Amount per                         Cumulative
Fiscal Yr.            Semester                          Amount a/
& Semester        IBRD          SDC        IBRD        %           SDC       %
1990
1              1.27         1.00        1.27      15.5         1.00      6.3
2              1.28         1.00        2.55      31.0         2.00    12.5
1991
1              3.19         1.82        5.74      71.1         3.82    23.9
2              2.27         2.76        8.C0     100.0         6.58    41.1
1992
1                           1.73                               8.31    51.9
2                           1.73                              10.04    62.8
1993
1                           1.58                              11.62    72.6
2                           1.58                              13.20    82.4
1994
1                           1.41                              14.61    91.2
2                           1.41                              16.20   100
A/     Figures may not add due to rounding.



ELECTEtNICS INDUSTRY DVEVLOFHEMT PBOJCY
tLWOM DgmLDR
Costs eatimates in Rs Lahks and US * Million
I-proving the Quality  Improving the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-University
of Prectio. ngineers  Engineers and Teohaleans Link"ges
and Technicians        in Training
01       02         03        04        05        08        07       08
CATEGORIES     STATS  CONTINUING  LEARNING   STAFF   MODERN. INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY    PIU    TOTALS CONTINGM. TOTALS
OF      0  TE ART  IN.    MATERIAL TRAINING FACILITIES ATTACH. TEACHERS                                     INCLUDING
EXPENDITURES  SEKINARS EDUCATION  DEMELOP.                                                                       CONTINGEN
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
CIIt NO                       5.00              251.00    84.00                                  340.00
.03               1.67       .56                                   2.27       .34      2.61
9 EQUIPH  70.00   200.00   1124.00                          8.00   1402.00
EQUIPMENTS           ~~~.47             1.33      7.49                           .05     9.36      1.68     11.03
C FURNITURES                   9.00                8.00   116.00                          2.00    135.00
.06                .05       .77                           .0.1     .90       .10      1.00
D BOOIS/JOURNALS               7.50               22.00    84.00                                  113.50
.05                .15       .56                                    .76       .13       .68
B LOCAL TRAINING    5.40      30.00              183.00             142.80                        361.20
.04       .20                1.22                 .95                         2.41       .48      2.87
F    LOCAL                    77.00   146.50    48.00                         108.00    144.50   624.00
SPECIALIST                   .51       .98       .32                          .72       .96      3.49       .b8      4.07
G   FOREIGN        76.00                          21.00                                            96.00
SPECIALIST        .50                            .14                                              .64       .13       .7t
B MAINTENANCR                  5.60               12.40    50.00                         25.00    93.00
.04                .08      _33                           .17       .62       .14       .76
I COSiUMA8LES       2.00      12.50                       343.00                          8.50  . 366.00
.01       .08                          2.29                          .06      2.44       .39  .  2.83
T1 0 T A L: Rp    82.40    216.60   146.50   745.40   1801.00   1A2.80   108.00    188.00  3430.70
5        .55      1.44       .98      4.97    12.01       .95       .72      1.25    22.87       3.95    26.82
NOTE:         The total component cost does not include US * 1.65 H in identifiable taxes.



ELECTRONICS INDU8TRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
cost estimates for FY 90
Improving the Quality   Improving the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-Ubiversity
of Practic. Engineers   Engineers and Technicians  Linkages
and TechnicLans          In Training
01         02         03        04        05        06        07        08
CATEGORIES      STATE  CONTINUING  LEARNING   STAFF    MODERN. INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY       PIU      TOTALS CONTINGEN. TOTALS
or        OF THE ART   ENG.    MATERIAL  TRAINING FACILITIES  ATTACH. TEACHERS                                  INCLUDING
EXPENDITURES   SEMINARS EDUCATION   DEVELOP.                                                                        CONTINGEN.
A  CIVIL WORK                    2.00              100.40     16.80                                  119.20     10.6i    129.61
.01                 .67       .11                                    .79        .07       .87
8  EQUIPMENTS                   28.00               60.00    224.80                          6.40    336.20     42.74    361.94
(501 iMp.)                     .19                 .53      1.50                           .04      2.26       .26      2.55
C  FURNITURES                    3.60                3.20     46.40                          1.80     54.80      4.16     58.96
.02                 .02      .31                            .01       .37      .03        .39     1
D BOOKS/JOURNALS                 1.50                2.20     16.80                                   20.50      1.56     22.06     at
(201 imp.)                     .01                 .01       .11                                     .14       .01       .15     1
E LOCAL TRAINING       .54      10.50               18.30                                             20.34      2.23     31.57
.00        .07                 .12                                               .20       .01       .21
F     LOCAL                     15.40     29.30      4.80                        -10.80     26.90     69.20      6.78     95.98
SPECIALIST                     .10       .20       .03                           .07       .19       .59       .05       .64
a    FOREIGN          7.50                                                                             7.50       .57      6.0?
SPECIALIST          .05                                                                              .05       .00       .05
(100X imp.)
H  MAINTENANCE                                                                               5.00      5.00       .38      5.36
.03       .03       .00       .04
I CONSUMABLES          .20       1.25                         68.60                          2.55     72.60      5.52     78.12
(20X Imp.)          .00        .01                           .46                           .02       .46       .04       .62
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------------------
T O T A L: Rs       8.24      62.25     29.30    208.90    373.40       .00    10.80      44.45    737.34     74.55    811.9
.05        .42       .20     1.39      2.49        .00       .07       .30     A.92        .50      5.41   "
wA



ELECTRONIcS INDCUSRY DtVELOFHENT PRWJECT
-AO DEVEWFHENT
Cost estimates for FY 91
Improving the Quality  Improviag the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-Unlversity
of Practlc. Zagineers   Engiseer  end Technoician   Linkages
and Techoiciana         lD Training
01        02         03        04        06        06        07        08
CATEGORIES      STATE  CONTINUING  LEARNING    STAFF    MODERN. INDWSTRIAL INDUSTRY      PIU     TOTALS  CrINTINGEN.  TOTALS
OF        OF THE ART  ENG.    MATERIAL  TRAINING FACILITIES  ATTACH. TEACHERS                                   INCLUDING
EXPENDITURES   SEMINARS EDUCATION   DEVELOP.                                                                        CONTINGEN.
A  CIVIL WORK                   3.00              100.40     67.20                                   170.60     28.49    199.09
.02                 .67       .45                                    1.14       .19      1.33
B EQUIPMENTS                   42.00              120.00    674.40                           1.60    838.00    150.00    9B8.00
(50% Imp.)                    .28                 .80      4.50                            .01      5.59      1.00      6.59
C  FURNZTURES                   5.40                4.80     69.60                            .40     80.20     10.35     90.55
.04                 .03       .46                           .00       .53       .07        .60         u
D BOOKS/JOURNALS                2.25                6.60     29.40                                    36.25      4.93     43.18
(20% imp.)                    .02                 .04       .20                                      .26       .03       .29
e LOCAL TRAINING     1.62       6.00               45.75               14.28                          67.65      8.73     76.38
.01        .04                 .31                 .10                           .45        .06       .51
F     LOCAL                    28.95     58.60     14.40                         32.40      28.90    161.25     20.80    182.05O
SPECIALIST                    .18       .39       .10                            .22       .19      1.08       .14      1.21
a    FOREIGN        22.50                                                                             22.50      2.90     25.40
SPECIALIST         .15                                                                               .15       .02       .17
(100% imp.)
H  HAINTNANCE                                                                                5.00      5.00       .65      5.65
.03       .03       .00       .04
I CONSUMAILES         .60       3.75                        102.90                          2.55    109.80      14.16    123.96
(20% imp.)         .00        .03                           .69                           .02        .73       .09       .83
____________________________ ____________________________ ____________________________ ____________________-------
T 0 T A L: RB     24.72      89.35     58.60    291.95    943.50     14.28     32.40     38.45   1493.25    241.01   1734.26
S        .18        .60       .39      1.95      6.29       .10        .22       .26      9.96      1.61     11.56
W
c.J



ELECTRONICS INDWSTRY DEVELOPENT P1OJECT
MANPOWER DEVELOPMNT
Cost estlmates for FY 82
Improving the Quality  Improving the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-University
of Practic. Engineers  Engineers and Technicians Linkages
and Technicians        ln Training
01       02         03        04        05        06        07       08
CATEGORIES     STATE CONTINUING  LEARNING    STAFF   MODERN. INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY      PIU    TOTALS CONTINGEN. TOTALS
OF       OF THE ART  ENG.    MATERIAL  TRAINING FACILITIES ATTACH. TEACHERS                                  INCLUDING
EXPENDITURES  SEMINARS EDUCATION   DEVELOP.                                                                      CONTINOEN.
A CIVIL WORK                                      50.20                                            50.20     12.30    62.50
.33                                              .33      .08       .42
B EQUIPMIENTS                                              112.40                                 112.40     25.63    138.03
(50% imp.)                                                .75                                     .75       .17       .92
C  FURNITURES                                                                                        .00       .00       .00
.00      .00       .00
D BOOKS/JOURNALS               1.50                4.40     12.60                                  18.50      3.29     21.79
(20% imp.)                   .01                .03       .08                                     .12       .02       .15
E LOCAL TRAINING    1.08       6.00               45.7b              42.84                         95.87     17.03    112.70
.01       .04                 .31                 .29                          .64       .11       .75
F     LOCAL                   11.55     43.95      9.60                        21.60     28.90    115.60     20.58    136.18
SPECIALIST                   .08       .29       .06                           .14      .19       .77       .14       .91
a   FOREIGN        15.00                                                                           15.00      2.67     17.67
SPECIALIST        .10                                                                             .10       .02       .12
(100% imp.)
N MAINTENANCE                                                                             5,00      5.00       .89      5.69
.03      .03       .01       .04    p
I CONSUMABLES        .40       2.50                        68.60                          2.55     74.05     13.18    87.23
(20% imp.)        .00        .02                           .46                          .02       .49       .09      .S8
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
T 0 t A L: Rs    16.48      21.55     43.95    109.95    193.60    42.84     21.60     36.45    456.42     95.57    581.99    "
8        .11       .14       .29       .73      1.29       .29      .14       .24      3.24       .64      3.88    W



EiLCTONICS IUSTRY DEVELOENT PROJECT
NPOWEU DElW
Cost ostimates for FY 93
Iproving the Quality  Improving the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-University
of Prectlc. Engineers  Elnneers and Technicians Linkages
and Technicians       in Training
01       02        03        04      0         06       07        08
CATEORIES      STATE CONTINUING LEURNING   STAFF   MODERN. INDUSTRIAL INUSTRY      PIU    TOTALS COUTINO. TOTAL6S
OF       OF THF ART  ENO.    MATERIAL TRAINING FACILITIES ATTACH. TEACHERS                               INCLUDING
EXPENDITURES  SEMINARS EDUCATION   DEVELOP.                                                                  CONTINmli.
A CIVIL WO                                                                                        .00      .00      .00
.00      .00      .00
8 ECQUIPENTS                                             58.20                                 66.20    15.40    71.60
(SOS lop.)                                              .37                                   .37       .10       .46
C FURNITURES                                                                                      .00      .00      .00
.00      .00      .00
0 BOOKS/JOURNALS              1.50               4.40    12.60                                  18.50     4.14    22.84
(20% imp.)                  .01               .03       .08                                   .12       .03       .15
E LOCAL TRAINING    1.06      6.00              36.60              42.84                       16.52    19.38   105.90
.01       .04               .24                .29                          .56       .13       .71
F    LOCAL                   11.55    14.65      9.80                       21.60     28.90    86.30     19.33   101.63
SPECIALIST                  .08       .10      .06                          .14      .19       .58      .13      .70
G   FOREIGN        11.00                        10.10                                           25.10     1.71    31.21
SPECIALIST        .10                          .07                                            .17       .04       .21
(100t iLp.)
H MAINTENNCE                  2.80               6.20    26.00                         5.00    39.00      6.74    47.74
.02               .04       .17                         .03       .26      .06       .32
I CONSUMABLES       .40       2.50                       68.60                          .43    71.93    16.11    88.04   it
(20% imp.)        .00       .02                         .46                          .00      .48       .11      .13
0
T 0 T A L: Res    16.48    24.35    14.65    67.30    162.40    42.84    21.60    34.33   383.91       88.81   472.76
S       .11        .1S      .10       .45     1.08       .29      .14       .23     2.56      .59      3.15     w



ELECTRONICS INWSTRY DEVELOIIT PROJECT
HAIOR   DVELOPHIT
Cost estimates for FY 94
Improving the Quality  Improving the Quality of  Strengthening Industry-Unaiversity
of Praotic. Enganeer   Engineers and Teoaeioians Linkages
and Tochnioians        In Training
01       02         03        04       05        06        07        08
CATEGORIES     STATE CONTINUING  LERNING    STAFF   l4ODEUN. INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRY     FlU    TOTALS CONTINGEN. TOTALS
OF       OF THIE ART  1NG.    MATERIAL  TRAINING FACILITIES  ATTACH. TEACNE
EXPENDITURlS  SEMINARS EDUCATION  DIVE LOP.                                                                     CTa.
A CIVIL WOME                                                                                        .00       .00      .00
.00      .00       .00
B EQUIP!ENTS                                               56.20                                  S6.20     16.10    74.30
(50% imp.)                                                .37                                    .37       .12      .50
C FURNITURES                                                                                        .00       .00      .00
.00      .00       .00
D BOOKXS/JOURNALS               .75               4.40    12.60                                   17.75      4.83    22.68
(20% imp.)                   .01                .03       .08                                    .12       .03      .15
e LOCAL TRAINING    1.08       1.50              38.60               42.84                        82.02    22.31    104.33
.01       .01                 .24                .29                          .55       .15       .70
F    LOCAL                    11.55               9.60                        21.60    28.90    71.65       19.49     91.14
SPECIALIST                   .06                .06                           .14      .19       .46       .13       .61
0   FOREIGN        15.00                         10.50                                            25.60      6.94     32.44
SPECIALIST        .10                           .07                                              .17       .05      .22
(100% imp.)
B NAINTMNANCE                  2.60               6.20     25.00                         5.00     39.00     10.61     49.61
.02                .04      .17                           .03      .26       .07       .33
I CONSUKADL3S        .40       2.50                        34.30                          .42    37.62    10.23    47.85
(20% imp.)        .00       .02                           .23                          .00       .25      .07       .32
T 0 T A L: Rs    16.48      19.10      .00     67.30    128.10     42.84    21.60     34.32    329.74     92.51    422.25    
S        .11       .13      .00       .46       .86       .29      .14       .23      2.20       .62      2.62
a.



INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
hnpbmen Schdub
FAM _o"                      im 1_ tO   isi                           1994      losS
(CdsduYeu       1o               191 t     Io        SIo       Is_____" t___ 1
I IMPORO TH CAU7Y OP PPRACTNG ENQHURS
.- v_tMbll _ Em    v
* __,vuWumimp m
*t -
*  Elsauria                             m       _____m                        mmmm               
eCaum nt                                 m         m- dmm 
Ma lEi I dl#mLt   Y FE        l
* OouihDmi
- *mn  -l1hmh
- L.OlwifqMiuW                ,                    _                 _         _ 
* PoabruEb6uw|r                                        -                   .   t
* OmuOsIpmuut 
for bgti  
* -
* Tds f
ad WxkM~  hy~~ 
* At umoaC C.iu
* Atbuwlks
I1 uSTNfrHENa. IOIRQ  USTRYJNIERMW1 UWN
* tCIusnImod n
-hod  fim kds
* --                                          _                                           I            oaS
* I     -umsl 0-                                      ---



-62-              ANNE  2
-62-             Page 21 of 32
i[l  I   .     1 --W               - ___________
IL~~~~~~I
LeiIC
z l
z                           _ __     _



LEARNING MATERIAL DIVEWPWNT AND STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
II YEAR AND BY RESOURCE CENTER
RAD                                      1990            1991             1992            1993           1994
RSOURCE CEINTR                      Ils     IITD    IISc    IITD    Ilsc    IITD   I18c   IITD    IISc    IITD
IITB    NEC    1ITB    NEC      II1T    NEC    IITB    NEC      IITB    NEC
ACTIVITY      TYPE OF COURSE        TYPE OF INSTITUTE                         NUME OF COURSE
{LECTRONICS       (COURSE)      EC     3        3       3       3       3        3
t 60H LEC. + 45H LAB.
{COMPUTER         (COURSE)      EC     1   2            1  2            1   2
{ 60H LEC. + 458 LAB.
LUARNING {
03  MATERIAL  { ZLECTRONICS      (COURSE)      PI             2   3            2   3           1   2
D EVLOPEWET   LECTURES         (5701)
{ ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)      PI              1   2           1   1            1   1
( LABORATORIES    (10009)
I IND. DESIGN     (COURSE)      IC          1
{ (LEC. + LAB.)
{FAC. TRAIN. ELECTRONICS        IC                      2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2
((8 WEEKS) (20 PART)
(FAC. TRAIN. COPUTER            EC                      1   2           1   2           1   2           1   2
( (6 WEEKS) (20 PART)
{FAC.TRAIN. ELETRONICS        PI+CEDT                           2   2           2   2           2   2           2   2
t (8 WEEKS) (20 PART)
( FAC. TRAIN. COMUTER         PI+CEDT                               2                2
( (4 EEKS) (20 PART)
f FAC. TRAIN. IND. DESIGN     EC+CEDT                       1               1
04   STAFF    t (6 MONTHS)  (6 PART)
TRAINING   {
t EXPOSURE COURSE IN INDUSTR. DESIGN        1               1               1
{ (3 DAYS) (40 PART)
{ S.STAFF TRAIN. ELECTRONICS  EC+PI                             2   2           2   2
(4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)           +CEDT
I S.STAFF TRAIN. MAINTENANCE   EC+PI            1   1           1   1           1   1
{ (4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)         +CEDT
t S.STAFF TRAIN. STORE+LIBRARY EC+PI                2               2                2              2
{ (2 WEEKS)  (15 PART)         +CEDT
{ S.STAFF TRAIN. PCB           EC+PI                                2                2              2               2
t (4 WEEKS)  (10 PART)         +CEDT
( S.STAFF TRAIN. MECHANICAL    EC+PI                                2                2              2               2
l (4 WEEKS) (15 PART)



LEARNING MATERIAL DEVELOPMENT AND STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
BY II8c - BANGALORE
ACTIVITY      TYPE OF COURSE        TYPE OF INSTITUTE                         NUMBER or COURSES
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
{ ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)      EC                   3         3         3
{ BoH LEC. + 45H LAB.
{ COMPUTER        (COURSE)      EC                   i         1         1
LEARNING  t 60H LEC. + 45H LAB.
03         MATERIAL  f
DEVELOPMENT ( ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)      PI
{ LECTURES        (570H)
{ELECTRONICS      (COURSE)      PI
{ LABORATORIES    (1OOOH)
{ FAC. TRAIN. ELECTRONICS       EC                             2         2          2         2
{ (8 WEEKS) (20 PART)
C FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER          EC                             1         1
{ (8 WEEKS). (20 PART)
04          STAFF    | FAC.TRAIN. ELETRONICS      PI+CEDT
TRAINING   { (8 WEEKS)  (20 PART)
{ FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER       PI+CEDT
C (4 WEEKS) (20 PART)
{ S.STAFF TRAIN. ELECTRONICS EC+PI
{ (4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)        +CEDT
II
tIt.



LEARNING MATERIAL DEVELOPMENT AND STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
BY IIT - BOMBAY.
ACTIVITY      TYPE Of OOURSE       TYPE OF INSTITUTE                         NUMBER OF COURSES
1900      1991      1992     1993      1994
{ ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)     EC
G OBO LEC. + 465N LA.
( COMPUTER        (COURSE)     EC                   2         2         2
f SO6 LEC. * 45H LAB.
LEARNING  (
03         MATERIAL  ( ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)      PI
DEVELOPMENT { LECTURES        (570H)
I
t ELECTRONICS     (COURSE)     PI
( LABORATORIES    (1000H)
( IND. DESIGN     (COURSE)     EC                    1
t (LEC. + LAB.)
t FAC. TRAIN. ELECTRONICS      EC
t (S WEEKS) (20 PART)
( FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER         EC                              2        2          2         2
I (6 WEEKS) (20 PART)
(
I FAC.TRAIN. ELETRONICS     PI+CEDT
{ (8 WEEKS) (20 PART)
04          STAFF    I
TRAIN'IG   ( FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER       PI+CEDT
t (4 WEEKS) (20 PART)
{ FAC. TRAIN. IND. DESIGN    EC+CEDT
{ (6 MONTHS) (6 PART)
t EXPOSURE COURSE IN INDUST. DESIGN
t (3 DAYS)   (40 PART)
4' '



LEARNING MATERIAL DEVEWPTME AND STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
BY IIT - DIELI
ACTIVITY     TYPE OF CoRS          TYPE OF INSTITUTE                       NUMBER OF COURSES
1990     1991      1992      1993     1904
ELECTNICS    (COURSE)         EC                  3         3         3
609 LWC. + 459 LAB.
f CCPUTTR        (COURSE)      RC
LEARNING  { SOH LEC. + 468 LAB.
03        MATERIAL  {
DEVEBOWPHNT   ELECTRONICS    (COURE)      PI                   2         2         1
C UCTUS          (5708)
I ELECTRONICS    (COIU)        PI                  1         1         1
LABORATORIES   (10009)
C FAC. TRAIN. ELECTRONICS     EC                             2         2        2         2
(6 WEEKS) (20 PART)
f FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER        EC
(6 WERKS) (20 PART)
{ FAC.TRAIN. ELETRONICS     PI4CEDT                          2         2        2         2
C( WEEKS)  (20 PART)
04         STAFF    C
TRAINING   I FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER      PI+CCDT
{ (4 WES)  (20 PART)
i S.STAFF TRAIN. ELECTRONICS XC+PI                           2         2
{ (4 VEEKS)  (15 PART)       4CEDT
C S.STAFF TRAIN. MAINTENAC   EC+PI                 1         1         1
C (4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)       +CEDT
II
uts
0



LEUUNING MATERIAL DEVELOPIENT AND STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM
BY NEC - BANGALORE
ACTIVITY      TO  OF COUR            TM  Of INsTITUTE                         NUMBER OF COURSE
1990      1991      199?      1993      1994
t ELECTRONICS     (COUSE)        IC
60B LEC. + 458 LA.
{COMPUTER        (COURSE)        EC
LEANING  { BOi LEC. + 458 LAB.
03         MATERIAL  i
DEVELOPIE  I EECTRONICS       (COUSE)        PI                   3         3          2
{ LECTURES        (5700)
( ELECINIICS      (COURSE)       PI                   2         1         1
1 LABORATORIES    (1000H)
I FAC. TRAIN. ELECTRONICS        EC
{ (8 WE)  (20 PART)
| FAC. TRAIN. COMPU TER          EC
{ (6 WEEKS) (20 PART)
( FAC.TRAIN. ELETFONICS       PI+CEDT                           2         2         2          2
{ (8 VEEKS)  (20 OART)
{ FAC. TRAIN. COMPUTER        PI+CEDT                           2         2
( (4 VEERS) (20 PART)
04          STAFF      S.STAFF TRAIN. ELECTRONICS   EC+PI                            2         2
TRAINING   { (4 VEEKS)  (15 PART)         *CEDT
C S.STAFF TRAIN. MAINTENANCE   EC+PI                  1         1         1         1          1
C (4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)         iCEDT
{ S.STAFF TRAIN. STORZ+LISRARY EC+PI                  2         2         2         2
f (2 WEEKS)  (15 PART)         eCRDT
I
{ S.STAFF TRAIN. PCB           EC+PI                            2         2         2          2
i (4 WEEKS)  (10 PARW)         *CEDT
|SSTAFF TRAIN. CRCHNICAL   ZC+PI                                2         2         2          2
{ (4 WEEKS)  (15 PART)         4CEDT



-68-
Page 27 of 32
IMnroving the Ouality of Engineers in Training
Engineering Colleges EC's
List of Courses for which Learning Material will be Developed
Electronics Engineering
1. Electronic Devices
2. Analog Electronics
3. Digital Electronics
4. Design of Digital System
5. Design of Analog and Data Acquisition Systems
6. Power Electronics (Designing with Power Devices)
7. Communication Electronics
8. Design with Microprocessors
9. Physical Design of Electronic Equipment
10. Manufacturing Technology of Electronic Equipment
11. Industrial Design of Electronic Equipment
12. Reliability of Electronic Equipment
13. Electromagnetic Compatibility of Electronic Equipment
14. Television Engineering
15. Optoelectronics
16. Switching Systems for Communication
17. Industrial Electronics
18. Control Systems
Computer Science
1. Programming Languages
2.  (1-puter Architecture
3. Data Structure and Algorithms
4. Systems Programming
5. Operating Systems
6. Data Base Management
7. Business Information Systems
8. Computer Graphics
9. Computer Networks



-69-
ANNE% 2
Page 28 of 32
Improving the Ouality of Technicians in Training
Polytechnics Institutes PI's
List of Courses for which Learning Material will be Developed
Electronics Engineering (Theory)
1. Electronics Drawing
2. Analog Electronics
3. Digital Electronics
4. Electronic Communication
5. Test & Measuring Instruments
6. Electronics Components
7. Power Electronics
8. PCB design and Technology
9. Physical design of Electronics Equipment
10. Estimation and Costing
11. Computers
12. Maintenance of Electronic Equipment
13. Production Technology of Electronic Equipment
14. Consumer Electronics
Electronics Engineering (Laboratory Work)
1. Analog Electronics Lab
2. Digital Electronics Lab
3. PCB Lab
4. Computer Lab
5.  Production and Assembly Technics
6. Electronic Equipment Maintenance Lab
7. Consumer Electronics Lab
8. Communication Systems Lab



-70-
ANNMX 2
Page 29 of 32
Pronosed Draft List of Equinment and Cgst Estimate
Electronics Equipment for a Two Students Station
1.  20 MHz Dual trace oscilloscope                          15,000
2.  10 NHz Pulse generator                                   4,000
3.  Function generator                                       4,000
4.  Analog multimeter                                        1,500
5.  Digital multimeter                                       4,000
6. Breadboard system for digital circuits                    3,000
7.  2nd level breadboard system                              6,000
8.  Microprocessor laboratory 8085                           4,500
9.  Interface module for microprocessor                      2,000
10.  Power supply 517/2.5A, +/-12V, 30V                       3,000
11.  In-circuit emulator for 8085A                            8.000
Total per station:                           Rs. 55,00
Printing Circuit Board Equipment-for a Standard PCB Laboratory
1.  Vertical reduction camera                              140,000
2.  Photoresist dip coater                                  23,000
3.  Spray etching machine                                   50,000
4.  Ultraviolet exposure unit                               25,000
5.  Roller tinning unit                                     25,000
6.  Illuminated magnifier (2x)                               6,000
7.  PCB mini drilling machine (2x)                          20,000
8. Very high speed drilling machine
60,000 rpm, with optical system                   120,000
9.  Notching machine                                         7,000
10.  Treadle operated shearing machine                       12,000
11.  Artwork table (5x)                                      20,000
12.  Hot air oven                                            16,000
13.  Air curtain                                             15,000
14.  Refrigerator                                             8,000
15.  Photo printing and development unit                      8,000
16.  Screen printing unit (Manual)                            5.000
Total per unit:                            Rs. 500,000
Computer Equipment for a Two Students Station
1. PC - XT with 640 kb memory
01 Hard disk 20 Mb
02 Floppy drives 5" 1/4
01 B/W monitor
01 Printer 80 col.                                 Rs. 30,000



-71-
ANNEX 2
Page 30 of 32
Proposed Draft List of Equipment and Cost Estimate
Office Equipment
1.  Photocopying machine A3 with                           100,000
reduction facilities
2.  Telex (including line)                                  70,000
Total per unit:                            Rs. 170,000
Workshop Equipment for a Standard Fabrication Laboratory
1.  Bench drilling machine up to  6mm                       10,000
2.  Bench drilling machine up to 20mm                       15,000
3. Pantograph engraving machine
with worktable of 450 x 200mm                       30,000
4. Bending machine (2 x 600mm)                              20,000
5.  Shearing machine (2 x 600mm)                            20,000
6.  Notching machine (up to 3mm)                            15,000
7.  Workbench equipped (5x)                                 25,000
Total per unit:                            Rs. 135,000
8. Combined milling cum lathe machine
small size, for PI only                            200,000
Total for PIs:                             Rs. 335,000



-72-
ANNEz 2
Page 31 of 32
PROVISIONAL LIST OF SELECTED INSTITUTES
Eineering Colleges
1. College of Engineering, Trivandrm, Kerala
2.  PSG College of Engineering, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu
3. College of Engineering, Osmania University,
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh.
4.  College of Engineering, Poona, Maharashtra
5. College of Engineering, MS Un_versity, Baroda, Gujarat
6. College of Engineering, Indore, Madhya Pradesh
7. HBTI Institute of Technology, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh
8. Bengal Engineering College, Howrah, West Bengal
9.  Thapa Engineering College Ludhiana, Punjab
10.  Malviya Regional Engineering College, Jaipur, Rajasthan *
11. Regional Engineering College, Kurukshetra, Haryana *
12. Regional College of Engineering, Suratkal, Karnataka
13. ID College of Engineering, Abmedabag, Gujarat
14. Regional Engineering College Rourkela, Orissa



-73-
ANNEX 2
Page 32 of 32
Polytechnic Institutes
1. Murugappa Polytechnic, Adyar, Madras.
2.  HNEer Chand Polytechnic Jallandhar, Punjab
3. MEI Polytechnic, Bangalore
4. Institute of Electronics and Rural Technology
Allahabad,U.P.
5. Assam Engineering Institute, Guwahati, Assam
6. Government Polytechnic, Kalamessary, Kerala (for Elec.)
7. Cusrow Wadia Institute of Technology, Pune
8. Bhagubai Mafatlail Polytechnic, Bombay
9. Babu Nanda, School of Engineering Cuttach, Orissa
10. SV Polytechnic, Indore
11. Haryhana Polytechnic, Nilokeri
12. Women's Polytechnic, Jodhpur Park, Calcutta
Centres for Electronics Design and Technology
1. CEDT Srinagar (Jamu & Kashmir)
2. CEDT Auran&abad (Maharasthra)
3. CEDT Imphal (Assam)
4. CEDT Gorrakpur (Uttar Pradesh)
5. CEDT Calicut (Kerala)
6.  CEDT Mahali (Purjab)



-74-
t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX -3
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
'   1.   The technical assistance component includes four elements:
(US$ million)
(a)  Software development (including exports)              0.9
(b)  Seminar program for Government and industry           0.7
(c)  Training and technical assistance for the DFIs        1.4
Total                                           3.0
A. Software Development
2.       The computer software industry includes the following prodcts and
services: standard software packages; custom software; software
development services; consultancy; training; data processing systems
integration; microcoding; and services, such as data entry and digitizing.
As noted in the main text, para. 2.17, this industry especially software
for exports, is one of the most promising industries for expansion. Its
development, however, is inhibited by inadequate knowledge of markets and
how they can best be developed, by lack of access to technology which is
fast-changing, by a shortage of trained and experienced manpower, and by
infrastructure bottlenecks especially in communications. The project would
finance a technical assistance program to help relieve these constraints
and provide a better basis for expansion of both domestic and export
software capabilities. This program was developed jointly by the Bank and
Indian software experts in January/February 1989 after consultation with
experienced software firms, DOE, Exim Bank (which has extensive experience
in software financing), and other agencies concerned with software
development and export.
3.       The program would combine research, seminars, and project
identification in two phases. A first phase would develop needed
information about trends in markets, technology, competition and Indian
software capabilities and constraints using international and domestic
consultants. Through a program of seminars, a week seminar in the U.S. and
several shorter seminars in major Indian cities this information would be
disseminated and feedback obtained from industry, Government and other
concerned agencies. The second phase would identify specific projects and
propose measures to help alleviate constraints and bottlenecks, and expand
capacity.
4.       It is expected outputs of this program would include:  (a)
detailed information regarding both foreign and domestic markets, their
suitability for the Indiar. industry, and how best they can be penetrated;
(b) guidelines for training and skill development; (c, recommendations
regarding software standards; and (d) recommendations regarding level of
service, pricing, and standards in data communications; and (e) mechanisms
for helping to import, absorb and diffuse technology. Specific areas for
possible project proposals would be export marketing, training, and
information and productivity centers.



-75-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
5.       This program wili require about nine months to complete.  The
estimated base costs are US$815 thousand.  The program will be commissioned
by DOE in close consultation with the Bank in accordance with a schedule,
organizational arrangements and procedures to be agreed with the Bank. It
is expected that a steering committee representing DOE, the software
industry, the computer hardware industry and selected other interested
oxganizations will assist in selection of consultants, and provide guidance
and assistance during the conduct of the study. Detailed draft terms of
reference have been prepared (Project File No. 3). Following are the steps
needed to implement this program: (a) reach formal agreement between Japan
Grant Finan-ing Facility. Government of India and the Bank on its
financing; (b) reach agreement on the schedule, organizational arrangements
and procedures; (c) finalization and agreement on detailed terms of
reference; and (d) selection of teams of international and local
consultants satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that (a) would be
completed by July 31, 1989, (b) and (c) by September 30, 1989, and (d) by
November 30, 1989, which would allow the study to commence in
January, 1990.
B. Seminar Program for Government and Industry
6.       The objective of this program is to improve the informational and
analytic basis for informational and policy decisions concerning the
electronics industry. Given India's relative isolation, and the foreign
exchange constraints that limit both travel abroad and the ability to bring
experienced speakers and trainers to India, policy and project discussions
often fail to reflect an adequate understanding of international
developments and their implications for India. The first phase of this
component, therefore, would be a two week seminar in 'Silicon Valley" in
which about 30 key senior Indian Government, banking and industry
representatives can learn first-hand, without interruptions, of important
worldwide developments in the electronics industry and then try to apply
this knowledge to the Indian situation. This would be followed, in the
second phase, by three to five short seminars in India in different cities
attended by a wider group. Each seminar in India would be focused on
specific topics for which discussion materials would have been developed in
the course of studies prepared by local and/or international consultants
financed under the project. The output of the initial two week seminar
would provide background material and a common set of assumptions regarding
worldwide developments for the follow up seminars in India.
7.       The preparatory studies which would be inputs for the seminars in
India would not themselves be directed at trying to formulate policy but
would review priority areas where a better factual or analytic basis is
needed. Some of the priority areas identified for possible studies
include:
(a)  assessment of scope for increased design standardization and
review of effectiveness of different types of supporting measures;
(b) evaluation of the likely revenue and foreign exchange impact in
the short and longer term of lowering of customs tariffs and
elimination of QRs in the electronics sector;



-76-
Page 3 of 6
(c) evaluation of economic costs, benefits and risks of alternative
indigenization goals for key electronics products likely to be
produced locally in the next five years;
(d) assessment of the potential for productivity improvement in
industry through the dissemination of informatics technology and
an indication of priorities for further attention;
(e) identification of the scope for further application of informatics
technology in the financial sector and an evaluation of the socio-
economic impact of such application;
(f) mechanisms of Government/industry cooperation in other countries
and their applicability to India, including role and
responsibilities of industry associations; and
(g) implications of selected major technical developments such as
surface mount technology for existing industry and the supporting
policy framework.
8.       This program would be launched in mid-1990 when results from the
software study could be used as inputs. The program would be undertaken by
DOE in close consultation with the Bank in accordance with a schedule,
organizational arrangements and procedures to be agreed with the Bank. In
presenting the initia' seminar DOE ard the Bank would be able to draw upon
Bank experience developed in connection with a similar program for the
People's Republic of China held in the fall of 1987. It is expected that
the program in India would be organized by local consultants financed by
the project, under sponsorship of a suitable organization such as the
Institute of Electrical and Telecommunications Enginee.s which has
indicated its interest in playing such a role, assisted by DOE with
guidance from a steering committee representing Government, the sponsoring
organization, and industry.
9.       The estimated base costs of this program is US$610,000.  The
following steps are needed to implement this program: (a) reach formal
agreement with the Government, Japan Grant Facility, and the Bank on its
financing; (b) selection of consultant to prepare draft program for U.S.
seminar; (c) appointment of a Steering Committee, (d) finalization of U.S.
seminar program and initiate background studies for India based seminars.
It is expected that step (b) selection of consultant for U.S. seminar could
be accomplished by end-October 1989 after Bank/DOE discussions during
September, 1989; and that step (d) would be accomplished during January/
February 1990. The U.S. seminar could be held in the fall of 1990.
C. Training and Technical Assistance for the DFIs
Obiectives
10.      To complement the "single window" line of credit, this project
would also provide technical assistance to the two DFIs. Its objective
would be to upgrade their capability to identify and appraise viable
projects in this industry, including projects to restructure and improve
efficiency of existing client firms that need to adjust to increased
competition brought on by deregulation.



-77-
AN=U; 3
Page 4 of 6
Program Elements
11.      For this purpose, agreement has been reached with the DFIs on a
three year program consisting of the following elements.
(a)  Access to Data Bases and Related Services.  This element would
provide firm level information needed in checking claims of
project sponsors; information about tecLnology, international
plant sizes, and the latest technology developments; and current
information about international production, trade, prices, etc.
It would draw upon specialized consulting servi -s and on-line
data bases.
(b) Identification studies for selected future groducts that might be
financed by the DFIs. These studies would be undertaken by
domestic and/or international consultants in close collaboration
with DFI professional staff. The studies would provide
information about worldwide devel 2ments regarding markets and
technology, suggest appropriate gSu'lelines regarding scale,
technology arrangements etc. to be viable projects in India. The
purpose of these 3tudies would be to allow the DFIs to develop
needed information and judgements about the technology and
economics of important future products financing. Products
tentatively identified for such studies include: glass shells,
surface mounted devices, bipolar ICs, VCRs (both assembly and with
manufacture of deck mechanism, process controls, control systems
and factory automation, and advanced medical instrumentation.
(c)  Training Program for fteXational Staff.  This program would expose
experienced operational staff to new products and processes in the
electronics sector and thereby upgrade their capability to
identify and appraise new projects. It would combine short
training seminars, and visits to selected plants and international
exhibitions and would be focused on specific products and product
groups likely to be important to the financial institutions in the
next three or four years.
(4) Diagnostic Assistance. This element would finance domestic and
international consultants to assist the institutions in dealing
with client electronics firms that need to upgrade technology or
improve efficiency. Consultants would be available for up to a
week per firm, becoming part of diagnostic teams from the DFIs
that would assess a client firms' problems and help them to
develop an implementable plan to improve. With such plans the
firms themselves could seek financing or more extensive technical
assistance from other sources.
Resources and Level of Surport
12.      During the three year commitment period of this project, the
institutions will be provided with the following funds: US$650,000 for
IDBI, and US$650,000 for ICICI. These funds will be provided from the
Japan Grant Facility and passed on to each institution as a grant. Support
will cover 100% of the foreign exchange and local cost elements of eligible
expenditures.



-78-
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
Eligibility Criteria
13.      Eligible Activities. Technical Assistance support will be given
for the following activities:
(a) purchasing of information abroad in support of advisory and
appraisal functions including specialized consulting services;
(b) hiring of both domestic and international consultants with
required skills under specific terms of reference to assist with
product identification studies and with the provision of
diagnostic assistance to client firms;
(c) training of operational and research staff concerned with
electronics.
14.      Eligible expenditures.  Technical assistance grant support will be
given for expenditures on services and travel specifically on eligible
activities. No "sunk costs" such as salaries or rentals will be supported,
nor will hardware purchases.
Implementina Arrangements
15.      Close coordination.  The program will be more effective if this
component is planned and implemented by the two institutions in close
coordination. Preparation of the initial work plan, identifying and
accessing data bases, conduct of identification studies and the carrying
out of training programs for operational staff should to the extent
possible be undertaken jointly by the two institutions.
16.      Work Plan Preparation.  The DFIs will prepare a detailed work plan
by September 30, 1989 in conformance to the general guidelines which have
been agreed to covering the three year commitment period of this component.
Preparation of this work plan will require a small team from the DFIs to
visit potential information and technical assistance resources for this
program located in the U.S.A., Europe, Japan, and possibly other developing
countries.
17.      Annual Budgets.  Each institution will be required to submit to
IBRD an annual budget for each 12-month period of tle project, timed to
reach IBRD two months in advance. The budget for the initial year should
be provided to the Bank within two months of submission of a satisfactory
work plan.
18.      The estimated cost of this program is US$1,400,000 of which
portion of which US$1,300,000 would be financed by the Japan Grant
Facility. The following steps are needed to implement this program: (a)
reach formal agreement between the Government, the Japan Grant Facility,
and the Bank on financing; (b) DFI completion of a work plan by September
30, 1989, satisfactory to the Bank.



-79-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
E. Costs and Financing
19.      The estimated costs of the technical assistance in current prices
would be Rs 45 million (US$3.0 million). Physical contingencies (10%) have
been added to the base costs of the technical component to allow for
possible increases in the scope of consultants or other support work.  The
expected price contingencies have been based on projections of annual
inflation rates as follows: for local costs--8.0% for FY90, 7.0% for
FY91-93; and for international costs--5.3% for FY90, 5.0% for FY91 and 4.1%
for FY92 and PY93.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
(Rs mLllton)
_1989920         1990191           1991/92              Total
l.ogal, LSualM Igl Local Forn    T otl  gg'  FoMr  otl  Local Forei.n s
Software Study       1.3   9.2  10.5  0.7  1.0  1.7   -       -     -    2.0  10.2  12.2
Seminars & Studies   0.8  2.3  3.1  1.5  4.5  6.0   -         -    -    2.3   6.8  9.2
DPI Tech. Assistance  1.1   6.1  5.2  1.3  6.2  7.6  5.8   4.!f  4.5   3.2  14.1  17.3
Total Bae Costs      9.3  15.6  18.8  3.6  11.8  15.3  3.8  4.5   4.5  7.5  31.1  38.6
Physicl Contingencies    0.3   1.6  1.9  0.4  1.2  1.5  0.4   0.4  0.4   0.8  *.1  3.9
Price Continsen Lea  0.1   0.4  0.5  0.4  0.9  1.3  0.1   0.5  0.6  0.7   1.8  2.5
Grand Total          3.7  17.5  21.2  4.3  13.9  18.2  0.9   4.3  5.5  9.0  36.0  45.0
20.      Financing for the technical assistance component (US$2.7) million
is expected from the Japan Grant Facility (JGF) of which an estimated
US$2.4 million would be in foreign exchange costs.  The JGF financing would
be made available through the Bank as Administrator. The balpnce of
financing from the Government ($0.2 million) and the DFIs ($0.1 million)
would cover primarily the salaries of participating staff and part of local
cost contingencies.



-80-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
INDLA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (IDBZ)
1.       IDBI, which was established in 1964 as a wholly owned subsidiary
of RBI, is now fully owned by GOI. As the lead institution for industrial
investment finance, IDBI operates as a direct lender and as an apex
refinance institution for the state financial institutions and the
commercial banks in their investment lending operations. It also acts as
the central coordinating agency for the operations of the other All-India
DFIs (ICICI and IFCI) and the term lending activities of the Life Insurance
Corporation (LIC) the General Insurance Corporation (GIC), and the Unit
Trust of India (UTI). Its importance as a direct lending is demonstrated
by the fact that is accounted for 40% of total industrial investment
lending by the All-India and state level financial institutions during the
period 1985-88. Its promotional role covers a wide range of activities at
the national level and, through specialized institutions, on the local
level. These activities aim at the development of both sound industrial
investments and financiai practices, and include industrial potential
surveys, entrepreneurship development programs, consultancy and advisory
ser.iices, and expanded development banking training programs.
2.       IDBI's 21 member Board, appointed by Government, represents a
cross section of GOI officials, industrialists and commercial and
development bank executives. While the Board is responsible for internal
policies and reviews IDBI's overall operations and its interaction with the
public and private industrial sectors, full powers are delegated to an
11-person Executive Committee. Management is headed by Mr. S. S. Nadkarni
as Chairman and Managing Director, an experienced and internationally-
recognized development banker. Since October 1985, when he assumed his
position, Mr. Nadkarni has sought to make IDBI a more commercially oriented
institution.
3.       IDBI's organizational structure comprises six administrative
units, each headed by an executive director/advisor. The Direct Finance
Operations grotip is responsible for appraisal, disbursement, supervision,
billing, collection, and recovery of all direct lending operations. It
also conducts product market research to support appraisal assumptions.
The Development Finance Operations group is in charge of refinance and bill
rediscount operations for the state financial and commercial bank
institutions, and the supervision of these activities. The Personnel and
Administration department looks after personnel, administration and also
supervises IDBI's regional/branch offices. The Small Industries
Development Fund is a specialized activity for the promotion and funding of
small scale enterprises at the national and state levels. The Corporate
Finance Group handles the secretariat, accounting, and planning functions.
In addition, it reviews, develops, and implemenats methods and
organizational changes throughout IDBI. The Technical Department has
internal functions assisting appraisal with technical reviews of project
proposal and external functions carrying out studies to provide advise to



-81-
ANNMEL 4
Page 2 of 4
industrial enterprises. It includes a new venture capital operation
directed at specialized techinology projects. The Legal Department acts in
an advisory capacity to the board and management and in an operational
capacity in dealing with iaternal legal matters.
4.       IDBI's profasss0onal staff, numbering 1220, is well qualified,
since IDBI is able to recruit top university graduates because its salaries
are competitive with other private and public institutions and career
prospects within the institution are attractive. Turnover of staff is
minimal. The Corporation has been successful in limiting staff increases
to about 10% over the last five years although loan sanctions and assets
have more than doubled. Another noteworthy feature is that IDBI has
improved the staff mix of non-professionals to professionals from 1.6:1 to
1.2:1 over the same period. The aim is to reach a ratio of 1.1.
5.       Ogerationa.  IDBI's financial assistance to the industrial sector
is effected through three basic areas of operations: a) Direct finance,
available to projects costing at least Rs 50 million (approximately
US03.4 million), accounts for about 44% of IDBI's portfolio. Direct
Finance takes the form of loans, underwritings, direct capital subsriptions
or guarantees. Directly-financed projects are generally cofinanced with
other All India term lending institutions; b) Refinanced loans account for
31% of portfolio. These are originated as loans to small and medium-sized
businesses by state-level institutions and banks which bear the risk on
these operations; c) Rediscounted bills, constituting 19% of portfolio,
cover the sale of machinery, financed by banks on a deferred payment basis,
and bear corresponding bank guarantees.
6.       Resource and Onlending Terms.  IDBI's resources include equity
contributions by the Government, RBI borrowings, bond issues, internal
generation through collections and earnings and foreign currency
borrowings. Rupee bonds and debentures constitute the largest source of
funds, for 52% of all external resources. The rate on these bonds has been
gradually raised to 11.5%, close to a market rate. RI loans, the other
importance source of funds, at 30% of total resources mobilized, are
presently available at 8% p.a.  The weighted average cost of domestic funds
for IDBI has increased from 6.8% p.a. in 1983 to 7.73% p.a. in 1988.
Foreign borrowings constitute only 5.8% of IDBI's total resources, although
they have been growing rapidly in recent years.
7.       Interest rates on domestic currency loans range from 11.5% to 14%
depending on the type of loan. Although the basic lending rate for
industrial term financing has remained unchanged during the past few years
at 14%, IDBI's basic gross operational spread has been reduced in recent
years.1/ The full effect of the squeeze on operating margins, through
higher cost funds and rather stable lending terms, has yet to show in the
profit statements inasmuch as the greater portion of IDBI's portfolio is
still supported by earlier bond issues and RBI borrowings, some at rates as
low as 7% p.a.
/ This basic spread does not apply to all of its portfolio, inasmuch as
many loans are booked at concessional rates, on which a lower spread is
obtained. About 21% of direct finance operations are at concessional
rates of interest.



-82-
ANM4
Page 3 of 4
8.       Pollss.  Following the appraisal of the Industrial Finance and
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2928-IN), IDBI adopted a general Policy
Statement which outlines its institutional objectives, the areas of its
activity, and the operations in which It engages. It also provides
guidelines on risk management such as enterprise and exposure limits. The
Policy Statement mentions the stimulation of desired investment, the
geographical dispersal of industry, the promotion of small-scale
industries, the promotion of new financial activities and the development
of entrepreneurs, as the key areas of IDBI's activity. it also eophasized
the soundness of its financial condition as a main policy objective to be
achieved through high portfolio quality, adequate operating spreads, sound
provisions for operating losses, tight expenditure control, continued
reinvestment of profits and build up of equity. The preservation of the
environment and ecological balances receive adequate treatment in the
Statement, which clearly states that IDBI will not finance projects that
may adversely affect the environment and will actively encourage existing
industries to adopt pollution-free processes and carry out investments in
environment-protection equipment.
9.       Procedures and Standards. The quality of appraisal reports is
generally satisfactory, and there is adequate staffing to handle project
appraisal work. Economic indicators such as internal economic rates of
return and financial rates of return are standard features of appraisal
reports. In accordance with the priority of the Government's industrial
reform policies, IDBI is increasingly giving attention to appropriate
economic scale of investments, adoption of competitive technology and
investments which create production that approach world price and quality
standards.
10.      Recent Performance.  IDBI's total commitments grew at a high rate
of 25% p.a. during FY83-FY88, attaining a level of Rs  57.2 billion in
FY88. Cumulative disbursements since 1964 total Rs 217 billion.  In its
direct finance operations, even though IDBI is a government-owned
institution, it lends principally to the private sector.  Of total IDBI
direct operations, 74% were to private industrial enterprises, 23% to
public sector corporations and 3% to cooperative ventures. About 63% of
its assistance is to medium and large enterprises and about 32% is for
loans to small scale enterprises channelled through the commercial banks
and state-level institutions and 5% is accounted by investments in shares
and bonds of other financial institutions. Sectorwise, its operations are
fairly evenly distributed, with the services sector accounting for 18%,
textiles 13%, chemicals and power generation each 10% and cement and food.
processing 5% each. New projects account for 40% of all IDBI financing,
modernization and rehabilitation operations 27% and expansion and
diversification projects 33%.
11.      Loan collections and arrears.  IDBI's overall collection
performance is satisfactory. Principal and interest collected on total
dv.es2/ have averaged 93% during the last five years.  The collection
performance of refinanced loans and discounted bills payable has been 100%.
as state financial institutions and commercial banks have always met their
guarantee liability on these operations. However, the average collection
ratio of the state-level institutions themselves was only 43% in FY88,
2/ Amounts due during the year and amounts past due on direct and indirect
lending.



-83-
ANTNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
requiring important capital infusions by the state governments to enable
many of these entities to service their debt obligations. To correct this
situation, IDBI is reinforcing its program for assistance to the state-
level financial institutions to improve loan recoveries and profitability.
A program has been adopted that placed emphasis on consolidation of these
lending operations and providing technical assistance to the SFCs in
improving collection performance. The Asian Development Bank is
selectively supporting IDBI in this effort through an ongoing project.
12.      The collection performance in MDEI's direct lending presents more
concrete difficulties but has gradually improved in recent years from
57% in FY83 to 68% in direct lending (before rescheduling). Many of IDBI's
earlier investments took place under a policy regime which was not
conducive to creation of efficient and modern facilities, which would be
viable in today's increasingly competitive environment. Under a highly
protected environment and because of pressures from the labor sector, it
has been difficult for IDBI and other DFIs to take concerted corrective
action opportunely and or to press creditor claims successfully.
Consequently, a hard core of problem projects developed for the DFIs, and
while for IDBI this constitutes less than 1% of its total loan portfolio,
it needs to be resolved. The Government has recognized this problem and
created a new organization, BIFR, to assist the DFIs in cutting through
regulatory restrictions constraining the DFI's ability to either
restructure still viable companies or to foreclose on enterprises which
cannot be salvaged.
13.      Financial Results and Conditions.  IDBI has had a history of
satisfactory profit performance and its overall financial condition is
sound, with a consistent high level of liquidity and debt servicing
capacity. Assets have more than doubled over the last five years to
Rs 138 billion as of FY88, while revenue has grown at an average rate of
20% to Rs 12.4 billion in FY88. Total income over the five-year period
ending FY88 grew at an average rate of 27.1% per annum. The growth of
income has been accompanied by control over general and administrative
expense, kept at a commendably low 0.2% of total average assets in FY88.
The net final result of operations in FY88 was an 18.5% return on average
net worth, up from 16.5% in FY87 and a return on average assets of 1.5%
compared with 1.4% in FY87. The debt to equity ratio (including contingent
liabilities) was 10.0 in FY84, and rose temporarily to 10.5% in FY88. The
debt service coverage ratios have been strong, averaging 2.7% over the past
five years. IDBI has also maintained a high level of liquidity, with the
current ratio averaging about 3.0 over the past five years. Current assets
represented almost one-fourth of total resources at the end of FY88,
indicative of IDBI's liquid:ty level. The corporation's financial results
are given in tables 1 and 2.
14.      IDBI's medium term forecast shows that the corporation's financial
condition will remain strong - with return on assets maintained at 1.5% or
over and a healthy debt:equity ratio of around 10.0. The corporation is
conscious of the likely impact of falling interest spreads due to higher
costs of local borrowings and is taking steps to improve its profitability
to meet this contingency. These include improved money management, control
of administrative costs and improved collection rates.



-84-
_~~~~~~~~~
Table 1
INDUSThIAL DnVLLOniinsi SC 01 oIDIA
ACA  AND  P m   INE  s Tn~i
(84. lUllh)
tEAR UNDID 8UN  303           312|     151        1951       1956      151       151        12         1         12         12
---------------      l )----------------------------             --------- - -(frc  stt)--------------
Total  oeom                S.8"       4.90     6.48        8.14      9.90      12.27     13.30     18.34      21.80     25.85
ototest                   2.65        3.40     4.43        5.53      6.83      S.6       10.19    12.60       15.42     18.81
F'l anLal Cazaz0           0.03       0.04     0.04        0.06      0.08       0.09      0.10     0.11        0.12      0.14
P.ev&OW M                  0.49       0.68     1.04        1.20      1.33       1.43      1.9"     2.18        2.48      2.78
Am1                        4,1        LII      LII         0.20      LI2        0.2tgL _2.        ..IQ.3      . 0.40     0.47
total Eapalseaa           LaI         ii       LaZ         A22       LOLh 11.019 11 24                        18.42     22.20
Rot Inceoo                 0.36       0.65     0.81        1.13      1.44       1.80      2.71     3.10        3.38      3.65
DLvLd**ds                  0.15       0.22     0.3k        0.00      0.44      0.49       0.50     0.54        0.54      0.54
Rasavwa                    0.41       0.43     0.49        1.15      1.00       1.31      2.21     2.56        2.84      $.11
RATIO$
ROB                        14.02     12.12    12.32       14.91     15.8X     18.32      21.92    20.2S       18.82     17.52
ROA                         1.2X      1.1      1.2X        1.42      1.42       1.5S      1.81     1.72        1.62      1.5X
biawxaa I051



q-85
AM=NX 4
Table 2
VA MM im sm       MU   n2~~i  auSEA  nuM.K num W nu                              ilan               nu
(En. Stllam)
WEA  JlED JOUR 2013         1921     15p          9J 1     131  7M IS!          L        l    19    190       1221       1123
________----------- (etoJl)-------------------   ------------~~~ ~~~~~~(forct)--------------__
Ceab and Eank Ealanace    0.52       1.97      5.02       4.51      5.4"      7.12       4.55      4.55      4.33      4.35
Other assets & advances ALM0        12.!7  159           11.9      1121      2L1        29.25     8L.U       LU       44.17
Current Asets            11.11     1*J*    1iA9         2&1I    I7.2        IAJZ      1h.E       IQfiA   *hL26    A
L..an  & ln&  e atnta    51.31       55.53    45.37      54.4 U    4.23    50.37    111.40    130.42    157.14    187.1'
U11,S ledtaunnted         7.15       10.55    11.40      14.41     17.08     15.71      20.52     23.04     25.45     28.06
Otbers Assets            -.L          0.10     02        AI  05 O.45          0.4L        052      0.58       0.64     0.70
TOTAL ASSETS              9.89      6340    76.3         92.40    111.03   11,        1462    12123    226.29    264.'_
LMIALIYIE  p UMUr1U
Current Llablltles        2.92       4.94      6.49       8.18     10.29     12.35      19.9f     14.23     15.22     18.01
Lons Torm Debt           42.48      52.25    62.88       75.78     90.96    107.95    131.61    160.24    190.55    222.81
snare CapItal             2.56        3.85     4.15       4.45      4.75      4.95 f      .40      5.40      5.40      5.40
Reserves                 _1l         -4j 2.     u1       -L." .9             ALM 6..5            12.26     lS.14     18.30
Total EquIty              4.49       6.21      7.00       8.44      9.78     11.53     15.04      17.46      20.54    23.70
TOMAL LIZIlTXRS &        48         63.40    76.37       2L.40    111.03    131.83    16.62    192413    Z26.29    264.52
Conttn5ent LIabilIties     .50       0.58      1.48       3.00      3.50      3.53      3.95       4.4       4.9       5.5
RI6TIOS,
DERT:EQUITY (TIKBS)       9.98       8.79      9.54      10.00     10.45     10.46      9.64       9.95     10.23    10.23
Sourc: . 1DI



-86-
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
ELCTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (ICICI)
1.       ICICI was established in 1955 to provide term finance to private
sector industrial firms. Since then it has grown into one of India's
leaaing financial institutions and it now provides a broad range of
financial services including: term loans, equity, leasing, merchant
banking, export finance, mutual fund investments and venture capital
finance. It advises Government on the promotion of industry and the
financial markets and undertakes other developmental activities. ICICI
operates nationwide from its head office in Bomoay which is supported by
three regional offices in New Delhi, Madras and Calcutta.
2.       ICICI has grown rapidly and is responsible for about 45% of all
foreign currency loans made by the financial institutions to Indian firms.
In keeping with its role as an important source of foreign funds the
organization has established itself in the international financial markets.
To date it has raised over US$1.5 billion in multi-currency foreign loans
and recent transactions have involved complex capital market techniques and
instruments such as interest and currency swaps. However, as discussed
below the ongoing liberalization of industry and recent monetary policy
measures will have some negative effects on the institution, at least in
the short term. The Bank has made 15 loans to ICICI, the latest one being
a US$105 million facility under the recently signed Industrial Finance and
Technical Assistance Project (US$360 million). The recently completed
Project Completion Report for the 13th loan to ICICI noted that the loan
was committed and largely disbursed within two years of the effective date.
It is too early to judge the Project's overall financial performance but
results to-date are mixed, although a major negative factor has been the
heavy burden on firms of foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Ownership
3.       At inception ICICI was privately owned.  However, with 81% of its
shares held by public sector institutions, now it is classified as a
government company under the Companies Act for exterior purposes such as
appointment of its auditors. The breakdown of shareholding is as follows:
Shareholder                                     ProRortion (%)
Public Institutions (including LIC, UTI              81.5
and nationalized commercial banks)
Private Indian investors                              9.2 (approx. 7,500)
Foreign investors (mainly commercial banks)           9.3
Total                                          100.0



-87-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
Hanagement and Staff
4.       ICICI's day-to-day operations are guided by the policies laid down
by a 15-member Board Of Directors.  One of the Board's operating functions
is to decide on individual projects involving exposure of over Rs 35
million. The Chairman and Managing Director, Mr. N. Vaghul, came to the
instituti.n in 1985 and has led it through a period of impressive growth
and profitability. In recognition of the changed business climate, his
current priorities involve finding new and cheaper sources of funds,
developing new projects with better spreads, addressing portfolio quality
issues, and collecting overdues.
5.       ICICI has a strong management team which is consistently able to
attract, motivate and retain highly competent staff. As at December 1988
total staff strength was about 805. The institution is divided into five
administrative groups: operations, planning, special operations, finance
and administration.
6.       The Operations Group consists of lending and rehabilitation.  The
former, headed by a General Manager, is responsible for the lending
function including appraising new loans, monitoring existing ones and
making collections. The regional offices and the market research
department also report to the General Manager. The rehabilitation function
including coordination with the Board for Industrial Finance and
Reconstruction (BIFR) is headed by a Deputy General Manager.
7.       Corporate Planning and Resources, headed by . Deputy General
Manager, develops and coordinates the overall strategy and direction of the
Corporation. It is also responsible for funding the institution both in
domestic and foreign currencies. The increased importance of this function
has been reflected in the organization structure.
8.       Special Operations is under a General Manager.  This group's
responsibilities include merchant banking and leasing. Finance, Accounts,
Administration and Personnel are supervised by two separate General
Managers.
Business Strategies
9.       ICICI has continually expanded the range of financial instruments
and services it offers in response to the perceived needs of the business
community and Government's industrial development priorities. The
organization's latest Policy Statement, which was drawn up against the
background of the Seventh Plan projections, was adopted in 1987. It
identified six priority areas for support: modernization and technology
upgradation; export promotion; emerging industries such as electronics and
communications; core industries; and energy conservation and pollution
control equipment.
&Mi. 4.sal of Proiects
10.      ICICI's appraisal techniques are thorough and of a high standard.
The economic and financial rate of return norms used are usually 12% and
15% respectively. For projects of more than Rs 25 million or for which the
ICICI loan will exceed Rs 25 million, a domestic resource cost calculation
is done. However, ICICI officers would benefit from training programs
aimed at increasing their awareness of current practices and trends in the



-88-
ZX5
Page 3 of 5
international environment. The technical assitance component of the
proposed project will play an important part in addresdng this need.
DayelOnmental Activities
11.      In addition to Its basic project financing functions ICICI also
undertakes activities to help the overall developmnt of Indian industry
and financial markets. Thus the Institution takes an actlve part in the
dialogue on topical issues affecting industry and flnance, through
memoranda to policy makers and Government coiittees.  It regularly carries
out subsectoral studies and provides training and lnstitutional development
support to national and foreign financial institutions. ICICI's has set up
a credit rating agency in conjunction with Unit Trust of India. -Such a
service will provide support for any eventual move towards the development
of a lending system based on varlable idterest rates which are determined
by the level of risk. ICICI has provided since 1988 venture capital-type
financing through conditional loans. In order to improve and expand its
venture capital services it recently established a venture capital company-
-Technology Development and Investment Company of India (TDIC)--which will
focus on investments in high technolog ventures. The new firm is expected
to receive support from the Bank under an upcoming proposed Technology
Development Project.
Financial Prformanes
12.      ICICI's financias  performance has been impressive, as shown in
Tables 1 and 2. It has achieved rapid growth and rising profits over the
last five years. Total assets increased to Rs 36 billion at the end of
March 1988 from RS 14.3 billion in 1983. This represents an annual
compound growth rate of about 258. During this period the loans and
investments portfolio increased to Rs 32 billion from Rs 13 billion and net
profits almost quadrupled to Rs 770 million. Consequently return on equity
averaged 23% p.a. during this period. However these impressive figures
will be difficult to sustain in future years unless problems of increased
bQrrowing costs, narrower spreads and deteriorating collections are
satisfactorlly resolved. Gradual deregalation has eant lncreased
competition In the industrial sector and higher rlsk to financial
institutions. Net spreads (before administrative expenses) on the rupee
loan portfolio have fallen from 3.48% in 1986 to 1.90% in 1987/88 due to
increased borrowing costs in the domestic mArket and fixed lending rates.
Spreads on foreign currency loans have however, been maintained. In
recognition of these trends ICICI's management has already embarked on a
strategy that involves: (i) greater emphasis on finding new cheaper
funding sources; (ii) increasing non-funded assets and fee income
activities; (iil) pursuing new and more profitable lines of business; and
(iv) vigorously pursuing collections of arrears.
Funding
13.      ICICI funds its rupee assets largely through the public issue of
bonds and debentures. Like the other development banks it has historically
benefited from access to long term funds at concessional rates. However,
it has seen the average cost of its borrowed rupee funds rise dramatically,
from 7.P5% in 1983 to 9.3% in 1987/88, for two main reasons. First, its
lending growth rate of about 250 p.a over the last five years far
outstripped the 10% official limit on increases in annual capital market



-89-
Page 4 of 5
borrowings at concessional rates and the additlonal requirement has been
funded at the prevailing non-concessional rates of 12.5-13%. 1/  In 1980,
708 of rupee borrowings were at the concessional rate. By 1988 thls figure
had fallon to about 54%. Second, the current concessional rate for issues
by the Development Banks increased from 7.58-8.75% p.a in 1983 to the
present 11% p.a. (11.5* for 15-year bonds) on all bonds. ICICI's forelgn
funding operations have become increasingly sophistieated as it has taken
up the benefits of increased competltiveness and innovatLons in financial
engineering on the international capital markets. and the country's
favorable credit status to lover foreign funding costs. Recent
transactions have established the institution in the Euro-comercial paper
and interest rate/currency swap markets. However, the spread charged on
all foreign currency loans is set by GOI and is currently 1.5%, and thus
the lower borrowing costs are passed on in full to Indian borrowers with
only indirect benefit to the institution.
14.      The Bank has been an important source of funds to ICICI and Bank
loans currently account for 36% of all foreign currency borrowings and 148
of total borrowings. The Bank's funds under the currently ongoing projects
will be an important source of added profitability for ICICI. Under che
terms of three ongoing Bank projects the institution was given a spread of
3% compared to 1.5% on other foreign currency loans. 2/ ICICI will be one
of the financial institutions participating in the proposed Exchange Risk
Administration System (ERAS), which is being introduced to minimize the
foreign exchange and interest rate risk of Indian firms on comercial
foreign currency loans, obtained through the financial institutions. This
will put even greater demands on its funding officers to skillfully manage
its foreign currency liabilities and the Corporation is keen to maintain
its current impressive performance by strengthening its skill in this
important area. ICICI recently requested the Bank to assist it in
developLng its liability management strategies, systems and staff skills.
In response, the Financial Technical Assistance Unit (FTA) of the Bank's
Financial Operations Department visited India ln November 1988, to identify
areas for supporting ICICI's liability management efforts.
Loan Portfolio
15.      As at March 31, 1988, ICICI had disbursed loans and made
investments in equities and debentures, totalling Rs 46.3 billion largely
for large and medium scale firms. Outstanding loans and investments were
Rs 31.6 billion and-the sub-sectoral distribution of loans was as follows:
engineering sector, including metal products, mechanical and electrical
machinery and transport equipment (24%); chemical and petrochemical
industries (22%); textiles (13%); basic metal (9%); cement (9%); and pulp
and paper (4%). For project sizes up to Rs 70 million ICICI would normally
provide the debt finance directly. Projects greater than Rs 70 million are
funded through the inter-institutional syndicate mechanism involving IDBI
1/ ICICI is allowed to issue government guaranteed bonds and debentures
for up to 15 years at an administered rate of 11% and these securities
qualify for SLR of commercial banks.
2/ The three projects under which ICICI is able to make rupee-denominated
foreign currency loans are the IEP, the Cement Energy Saving Project
and the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project.



-90-
ANNEX S_
Page 5 of 5
and IFCI as well as the all-India investment institutions, the State
Financial Corporations and the commercial banks.
16.      Portfolio quality has deteriorated in recent years as reflected in
falling collections ratios from 193-1986. However, collections before
rescheduling, improved slightly as at March 31, 1988, to 74.4% (15 months
figure) as compared with 73.1% in 1985, when the industrial liberalization
process gathered momentum. Total arrears stand at 3.1% of portfolio
although about 64% of these are accounted for by firms in five industries:
sugar, textiles, cement, jute and paper, which face long term structural
problems. The difficulties caused by the more competitive operating
environment have, in many cases, been exacerbated by the depreciating
exchange rate which have increased effective interest rates to over 30%
p.a., for many firms with foreign exchange denominated loans.
Profitability
17.      As a result of the interest rate squeeze, Ir1CI1s spreads have
deteriorated to the extent that, at the margin, it's basic lending business
is barely profitable. At present 12.5% of total assistance is at
concessionary races averaging about 12.0% p.a which yields a negative
spread, when marginal borrowing costs of 11.5% p.a., and administrative
expenses and provisions are taken into account. Furthermore the overall
situation will become worse over time as the older and cheaper funds mature
and are replaced with funds at prevailing higher rates. Given these
developwents, ICICI has used a 'chree-point strategy to preserve its
financial profitability. First, it has concentrated on increasing volumes
in its most profitable activities such as leasing and lines of credit for
equipment suppliers. Second, it has successfully held down administrative
costs in the face of rapid growth from 0.4% of total assets in 1983 to 0.3%
in 1987/88. Third it has placed increased emphasis on collections, through
the adoption of a comprehensive collection strategy.
Future Prospects
18.      Loans are expected to grow at an average rate of 15% p.a. over the
next five years, compared with about 20% p.a. for the 1983-88 period. As
the projections in Table 2 show, following five years of steadily rising
profits, ICICI is expected to experience a slow down in profits growth with
no change in current cost of funds and lending rates. Between 1983 and
1988, there was an almost fourfold increase in profits and return on equity
averaged 23%. Over the next five years, with no change in spreads, ROE is
expected to decline to about 14%. Spreads will narrow due to higher
borrowing costs as maturing cheap funds are replaced by higher cost funds
and weak collections squeeze profitability. Profit performance will also
be influenced by the extent to which ICICI succeeds in its plans to
diversify its funding sources (in order to tap cheaper funds), increase fee
income and successfully launch new higher yielding products and services.
The debt:equity ratio is expected to stay mostly below 10:1 and minimum
debt service coverage is projected to be 1.5. The key underlying
assumptions behind the projections are that: (i) there will be continued
rapid growth in high profit areas and non-funded business; and (ii) the new
debt collection strategy should improve the collection ratio, presently
74.4% (15 months). The declining interest rate margins are a cause for
concern and should be kept under close review by the Government and ICICI.



-91-
AN=E 5
Table 1
m. INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INWENVZSTK   CORSATIOW OF INDIA LIMIED EIDII
AeYUAL MND PIROJCTED IUOEE STATNS
(Va bLiUona)
F&*ca Yg r End March 3I 1Q              193      1231     1985      US3*     AMS          1929     1990    1921
-----------------Actual- -    ------  --         ------- Projected------
Inca"e
Interest on Loans and Oebeaturca        1.30     1.54     1.96      2.51     3.62         4.05     4.77     5.62
Fees and Cosmieion                      0.05     0.07     0.14      0.27      0. 0        0.61     0. 85    1.14
Other ince                              San g01  0II 0                1       0L   0      gi5U    g,26      0 29
TOTAL INCOMB                           1i36      1.62     2.11      2.93     4.33         4.91     5.88     7.05
Expensoa
Interest                                0.90     1.16     1.44      1.82     3.08         3.40     4.16     5.05
ProvLsionslUrita Offs 1                 0.03     0.00     0.00      0.15     0.00         0.17     0.20     0.23
Salaries and Personnel                  0.03     0.03     0.04      0.05     0.11         0.10     0.12     u.14
Depreciation                            0.02     0.02     0.02      0.11      0.18        0.36     0.50     0.66
Other                                      1      Ll 0      L5  0I 07 00     0l04        0L14      0 15     0 17_
TOTAL EXPESE                            1.02     1.26     1.-       2.20      5.41        4.17     5.13     6.25
Profit Bfore Tax                        0.34     0.36     0.54      0.73     0.92         0.74     0.75     0.80
Tax                                     0.15     0.15     0.16      0.12     0. is        0.11     0.11     0.12
Profit After Tax L                      0.21     0.23     0.38      0.61     0.77         0.63     0.64     0.68
Dividends                               0.04     0.06     0.08      0.09      0.16        0.15     0.17     0.19
Reserves                                0.17     0.22     0.30      0.52     0.61         0.48     0.47     0.49
Ratio*:
1R1                                     21.2X    23.2Z    24.92     29.0X    27.11        16.7Z    14.81    13.92
ROA                                      1.62     1.86     1.9X      2.42      2.42        1.5X     1.32     1.22
, Interest incom  for 198.1983 is aet of provisions and wit.-offs.
Lk The 1984 f5 ure Imcludea writ bac  of Re 70 million frm doubtful debt
reserve.
/g  Fiscal Yar End la December 31 up to 1986 ad March 31 frm 1988
onwards. Mareh 1988 figures are for 15 months.
Sourcet s CIC1.



-92-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
TIH  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IsmINT CPOATO0  01  DDr  LUMITED fICICI)
ACTUAL AND PRO       BACSED  UALNCE SHEETS
(Rs bUilleo)
hiueal Year End March 31 /b              18        1986     1985       198 il                1989     1990      1991
-----------------Actual------------------         -------Projected-------
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                   0.38      0.42     1.47       1.51     0.75         2.10     2.50     2.50
Othar Assets and Advancer                0.80      1.05     1.27       1.53     3.18         1.16     1.16      1.16
Current Assets                           1.18      1.47     2. 74      3.04     3.93         1.42     2.10     2.92
Loans (rupees)                           7.70      9.40    11.40      14.12    19.00        22.61    27.92    34.11
Loans (fx)                               4.60      5.50     6.83       9.27    11.00        12.33    13.63    15.05
Investments                              0.80      1.00     1.20      1.30      1.64         1.80     2.02     2.26
Net Fixed Assets                         O.OS    O.".    0.24         _.1_42    0.86         1.58     2.32     3.07
TOTAL ASSETS                            14.33    17.57    22.41      2.8.13    36.43        43.00    51.65    61.07
Liabilities and Rt Worth
Current Liabilities                      0.76      0.98     1.09       1.2.     0.98        1.65      1.65      1.65
Rupee Debt                               8.41    10.12    13.02       15.27    20.00        23.17    27.82    33.58
Foreign Currency Debt                    4.08      5.14     6.56       9.16    13.22        14.34    17.48    20.19
Net Long Term Debt                      12.49    15.26    19.58      24.43    33.22         37.51    45.30    53.77
Share Capital                            0.27      0.41     0.49      0.67      0.80         0.80     0.90     1.00
Reserves                                .2.11      0.92    .1.25       1.80     2.41         3.04     3.80      4.65
Total EquLty                             1.08      1.33     1.74       2.47     3.21         3.84     4.70     5.65
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       14.33    17.57    22.41       28.13    36.43        43.00    51.65    61.07
AND NETWORTE
Ratios-.
Debt:Equlty (times) /                   10.30      9.80    10.40       9.50     9.50         9.40     8.00     8.20
la  Debts EquIty as defined in World Bank Loan Areeets.
lb  FISCal Year End is December 31 up to 1966 and March 31 from 1988 onwards. March 1988 figures are for
15 months.
Source: ICICI



-93-
ANNMEX 6
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPM =  PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. World Bank, India - Levelonment of the Electronics Industry: Sector
Report No. 6781-IN, dated June 26, 1987.
2. Manpower Component Working Papers
3.  Realizing Indian Software Potential:  Proposal for a Study
4.  Seminar Program for Government and Industry Representatives
5.  Technical Assistance for the Financial Institutions
6.  Guidelines for DFI Financing:  Suggested Scale and Technology
|         ~~~Standards.



