                                                       CONFORMED COPY




                                               LOAN NUMBER 3093 IN




            (Electronics Industry Development Project)


                              between


                               INDIA


                                and


               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT




                        Dated July 7, 1989

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3093 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1989, between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

     (B) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the ICICI Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make a
loan to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Limited (ICICI) in an aggregate principal amount of $101,000,000
to assist ICICI in the financing of Part A of the Project on the
terms and conditions therein set forth;

     (C) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the IDBI Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make a
loan to the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) in an
aggregate principal amount of $101,000,000 to assist IDBI in the
financing of Part B   of    the    Project    on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;

     (D) the Borrower is expected to receive from the Government
of the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable con-
tribution in an amount equivalent to twenty-four million Swiss
Francs (SF24 million) (Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing
of Part C of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Switzerland;

     (E) Switzerland intends to appoint the Bank to administer
the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the
Swiss Contribution Agreement and procedural arrangements to be
agreed between Switzerland and the Bank; and

     (F) the Borrower is expected to receive from the Government
of Japan a grant (the Japanese Grant) in an amount of three
hundred sixty-four million five hundred thousand Japanese Yen
(ë364,500,000) to assist in the financing of Part D of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Japanese
Grant Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Bank acting as administrator of the Japanese Grant;

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a) "ICICI" means Industrial Credit and Investment Corpora-
tion of India Limited, a company established and operating under
the laws of India;

     (b) "ICICI Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith, entered into between the Bank and ICICI for the purposes
of carrying out Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all the schedules and
agreements supplemental to the ICICI Loan Agreement;

     (c) "IDBI" means the Industrial Development Bank of India, a
body corporate established under the IDBI Act;

     (d) IDBI Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith, entered into between the Bank and IDBI for the purposes
of carrying out Part B of the Project, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all the schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDBI Loan Agreement;

     (e) "DOE"   means     the    Department     of   Electronics   of   the
Borrower;

     (f) "CEDT" means a Center for Electronics Design and Techno-
logy which participates in the Project;

     (g) "Engineering College" means an engineering college,
satisfactory to the Bank, which is selected by DOE to participate
in the Project;
     (h) "Polytechnic Institute" means a polytechnic institute,
satisfactory to the Bank, which is selected by DOE to participate
in the Project;

     (i) "Resource Centers" means technical training institu-
tions, satisfactory to the Bank, which are selected by DOE to
participate in the Project;

      (j) "ERAS" means the Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
established in IDBI, as described in its release dated April 5,
1989;

     (k) "Charter" means the Memorandum of Association and the
Articles of Association of ICICI dated January 5, 1955, as amended
to the date of this Agreement;

     (l) "IDBI Act" means the Industrial Development Bank of
India Act, 1964 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

     (m) "Special Account" means         the   account    referred    to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;

     (n) "Rupees" or   the   sign   Rs    means   the    currency    of the
Borrower; and

     (o) "foreign currency"    means     any   currency    other than the
currency of the Borrower.

                             ARTICLE II

                              The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of eight million dollars ($8,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such with-
drawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for Parts C and D of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.

     (c)    For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
                  mencing on each date specified in Section 2.06 of
                  this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
                  which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
                  annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

        (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                               ARTICLE III

                        Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, carry out Parts
C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, industrial and finan-
cial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts
C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.03. In order to ensure effective implementation and
monitoring of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall establish
a Project Implementation Unit and a Steering Committee in accord-
ance with a timetable and with staffing and membership, respec-
tively, satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the ERAS
interest rate is adjusted as necessary in order to cover adequa-
tely the interest rate and foreign exchange risks.

     (b) The Borrower shall, in the event of a deficit in the
funds required for ERAS, extend necessary support, and may recoup
its contribution when a surplus is generated.

     (c) The Borrower shall review, from time to time, the re-
lending procedures of each of ICICI and IDBI in order to ensure
that interest rates to final users remain positive in real terms,
reflective of market conditions and sufficient to provide a rea-
sonable spread to such institutions.

     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ICICI and IDBI to
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than September 30, 1989
a detailed work plan satisfactory to the Bank for the implementa-
tion of Part D (iii) of the Project.

                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts C and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower, including DOE, respon-
sible for carrying out such Parts of the Project.

    (b)    The Borrower shall:

          (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                 graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                 Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                 accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                 consistently applied,   by   independent auditors
                 acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                 any case not later than nine months after the end
                 of each such year, the report of such audit by said
                 auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                 Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                request.

     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

           (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                 with sound    accounting   practices, records and
                 accounts reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii)   ensure that    all   records   (contracts, orders,
                 invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                 evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
                 least one year after the Bank has received the
                 audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                 withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and

       (iii)     enable the Bank's   representatives   to examine such
                 records.

    (d)    The Borrower shall:

           (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                 graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                 Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                 accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                 consistently applied,   by   independent auditors
                 acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                 any case not later than nine months after the end
                 of each such year the report of such audit by said
                 auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                 Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
                 separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                 statements of expenditure submitted during such
                 fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                 internal controls involved in their preparation,
                 can be relied upon to support the related with-
                 drawals; and

       (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                 ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                 as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

     (a) Either the Charter or the Act shall have been amended so
as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of Part A
or B of the Project or the operations or financial condition of
ICICI or IDBI respectively;

     (b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of either ICICI or IDBI or for the suspension of their res-
pective operations;

     (c) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to either
ICICI or IDBI having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable; and

     (d) The Swiss Contribution Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by December 31, 1989 or such later date as the
Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

     (e)    (i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                  under: (a) the Swiss Contribution Agreement made to
                  the Borrower for the financing of Part C of the
                  Project; or (b) the Japanese Grant Agreement made
                  to the Borrower for the financing of Part D of the
                  Project, shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                  terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                  terms of the agreement providing therefor;

           (ii)   Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                  if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                  the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                        the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                        under such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for Part C or Part D the
                        Project are available to the Borrower from
                        other sources on terms and conditions consis-
                        tent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ICICI Loan Agreement and the IDBI Loan Agreement (other than those
relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been ful-
filled.

     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90)       days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for        the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India

          Cable address:                         Telex:

             ECOFAIRS                               953-313546
             New Delhi

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                         Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
                                                     64145 (WUI)


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.

                     INDIA



                     By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                           Authorized Representative




                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                     By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                   Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                  Asia


                               SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)    Equipment under           7,200,000          100% of foreign
       Part C of the                                expenditures
       Project                                      100% of local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    80% of local expen-
                                                    ditures for other
                                                    items locally
                                                    procured
(2)    Unallocated                 800,000
                                 _________

       TOTAL                     8,000,000

2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and

     (b) Part C of the Project,         until   the Swiss Contribution
Agreement has become effective.


                               SCHEDULE 2

                       Description of the Project

     The objective of the Project is to         assist the Borrower to
foster a competitive electronics industry.

     The Project consists of the following Parts, as the same may
be amended from time to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A:     Electronics Industry Expansion and Upgrading (ICICI)

     Financing of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to Invest-
ment Enterprises.

Part B:     Electronics Industry Expansion and Upgrading (IDBI)

       Financing of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to Invest-
ment Enterprises.

Part C:     Manpower Development and Training

            (i)   upgrading training capabilities of participating
                  Engineering Colleges, CEDTs and Polytechnic Insti-
                  tutes through: (a) improvement of training mater-
                  ials and programs; (b) improvement of teaching
                  facilities (laboratories and equipment); and (c)
                  training of teachers;

           (ii)   provision of consultants, equipment and technical
                  training materials for the training of engineers
                  and technicians by the Resource Centers; and

          (iii)   development of closer links between the electronics
                  industry and participating Engineering Colleges
                  through a program of industrial attachment for
                  students and the provision of part-time teachers
                  from industry.
Part D:    Technical Assistance

            (i)   performance of a study     and seminars to assist in
                  the development of the     computer software industry
                  of India;

           (ii)   undertaking seminars and related studies to provide
                  additional inputs for improving investment growth
                  and efficiency in the electronics industry; and

          (iii)   development of a program to upgrade the capability
                  of ICICI and IDBI to identify, appraise and imple-
                  ment electronics projects.

                              *     *    *

           The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


                               SCHEDULE 3

                          Amortization Schedule

                                                Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (Expressed in dollars)*

March 15,   1995                                     145,000.00
September   15, 1995                                 150,000.00
March 15,   1996                                     160,000.00
September   15, 1996                                 165,000.00
March 15,   1997                                     170,000.00
September   15, 1997                                 175,000.00
March 15,   1998                                     185,000.00
September   15, 1998                                 190,000.00
March 15,   1999                                     200,000.00
September   15, 1999                                 205,000.00
March 15,   2000                                     215,000.00
September   15, 2000                                 220,000.00
March 15,   2001                                     230,000.00
September   15, 2001                                 240,000.00
March 15,   2002                                     250,000.00
September   15, 2002                                 260,000.00
March 15,   2003                                     270,000.00
September   15, 2003                                 280,000.00
March 15,   2004                                     290,000.00
September   15, 2004                                 300,000.00
March 15,   2005                                     310,000.00
September   15, 2005                                 325,000.00
March 15,   2006                                     335,000.00
September   15, 2006                                 350,000.00
March 15,   2007                                     360,000.00
September   15, 2007                                375,000.00
March 15,   2008                                    390,000.00
September   15, 2008                                405,000.00
March 15,   2009                                    420,000.00
September   15, 2009                                430,000.00


___________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


                        Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below.

    Time of Prepayment                              Premium

                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per annum) applicable to
                                           the Loan on      the day
                                           of prepayment multiplied
                                           by:
Not more than three years                                0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                                0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                                  0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                               0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                               0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                                1.00
     maturity


                              SCHEDULE 4

                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods required
for Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 9 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Equipment items or groups of equipment items estimated to
cost less than $200,000 up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$1,000,000 but comprising highly specialized items not available
in India, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.   Equipment items or groups of equipment items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $2,500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   Off the shelf items or groups of items estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

     (a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

     (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     (c) The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World    Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


                              SCHEDULE 5

                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "eligible Category" means the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and depo-
sited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for the
Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.

     (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or pay-
                  ments in respect     of   which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                  Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been made out
                  of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligi-
ble expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of     paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, the Bank shall not be   required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

     (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Special Account, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the respective Part of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories for the respective Part of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

     (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
