Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17054
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3093-4-5-IN)
September 24, 1997
India Country Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Fiscal Year           Exchange Rate            Comment
(Indian rupee-Rs/US$)
1989-90                  16.66              Official Rate
1990-91                  17.95                 ditto
1991-92                 24.52                  ditto
1992-93                 26.41                  ditto
1993-94                 31.36               Unified Rate
1994-95                 31.40                  ditto
1995-96                 33.46                  ditto
1996-97                 34.45                  ditto
Note: A dual exchange rate system was created in March, 1992, with a free market rate for about 60% of foreign
exchange transactions at a rate of US$ 1.00= Rs. 30.65. The exchange rate was reunified at the beginning of March,
1993 at the free market rate.
FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICTE                 - All-India Council for Technical Education
CEDT                  - Centre for Electronics Design and Technology
CEEP                  - Continuing Engineering Education Program
DEA                   - Department of Economic Affairs
DFI                   - Development Finance Institution
DOE                   - Department of Electronics
EIDP                  - Electronics Industry Development Project
ERAS                  - Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
GOI                   - Government of India
ICICI                 - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
ICR                   - Implementation Completion Report
IDBI                  - Industrial Development Bank of India
IAP                   - Industry Attachment Program
IEP                   - Instructional Enhancement Program
IlSe                  - Indian Institute of Science
IIT                   - Indian Institute of Technology
IMPACT                - Industry-oriented ManPower with Appropriate Competence and Training
JGF                   - Japan Grant Facility
LM                    - learning materials
MHRD                  - Ministry of Human Resources and Development
NASSCOM                - National Association of Software and Service Companies
PI                    - Participating Institution
PIU                   - Project Implementation Unit
RC                    - Resource Centre
SAR                   - Staff Appraisal Report
SDC                   - Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SSS                   - Sustainability Support Scheme
ZOPP                  - German acronym for Goal Oriented Project Planning
Vise President                  :      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director, India         :      Edwin R. Lim
Task Manager                    :      Naimeh Hadjitarkhani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3093-4-5-IN)
PREFACE                             TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................                                  i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  .................................... 1
Economic Situation and Prospects                           1........................................... 
A. Project Objectives ...........................................                      I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................        ....................... 2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................................     4
D. Project Sustainability ...........................................                  6
E. Bank Performance ........................................... 7
F. Borrower Performance ........................................... 9
G. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................                  10
H. Future Operation.                              ........................................... 10
I.  Key Lessons Learned ............................................ 12
PART 2:  STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................                        13
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1   Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2    Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3   Project Timetable .15
Table 4         Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7    Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A  Project Costs.                                                                       18
Table 8B  Project Financing .18
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .18
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 11        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions .21
ANNEXES
Annex A   Mission's Aide Memoire .23
Annex B    Borrower's Contribution -- DOE .41
Annex C    Borrower's Contribution -- ICICI. .55
Annex D    Borrower's Contribution -- IDBI .67
Annex E         Cofinancier's Letter -- SDC.97
A me     E . oia ce'        etr-       D  .......................................................................................... 97
This.document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3093-4-5-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Electronics Industry
Development Project in India, for which Loans 3093-IN, 3094-IN, and 3095-IN, totaling US$210
million equivalent, were approved on June 15, 1989, and made effective on September 14, 1989.
Loans 3094-IN and 3095-IN, supporting the credit line component, closed on December 31, 1993,
compared with the original Closing Date of December 31, 1995. Final disbursements took place
respectively on September 14, 1993, and October 8, 1993, at which time balances respectively of
US$50.7 million, and US$79.7 million, were canceled. Loan 3093-IN was closed on March 31,
1997, compared with an original Closing Date of December 31, 1995. Final disbursements took
place on September 16, 1997 and the balance of US$527,437.86 is being canceled. Cofmancing for
the project was provided by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), and by the
Japan Grant Facility (JGF).
This ICR was prepared by Sidney Thomas, consultant. Contributions, and comments on an
earlier draft, by the respective agencies, ICICI, IDBI, the Department of Electronics (DOE), and by
SDC, the cofinancier of the manpower component, are gratefully acknowledged. The ICR was
reviewed by the present Task Manager, Ms. Naimeh Hadjitarkhani, Messrs. Salman Salman and
Cecil Perera, respectively of Legal and Loan Departments, and by Messrs. Nagy Hanna, Joseph
Bredie, Robert Schware, and Melvin Goldman who were involved in the project at various times.
The ICR has also been reviewed by the supervising Division Chief (Acting), Mr. Peter Nicholas,
and by Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor, Country Department II, South Asia Region (in
June 1997). The ICR was also reviewed by Mr. John Joyce, Operations Advisor, SACIN in
September 1997.
Planning for the production of this ICR started during the course of the January, 1997
supervision mission. An ICR mission was conducted in May, 1997. The ICR draws on the work
conducted during the course of that last mission, and draws on the findings of that mission, the
written contributions already acknowledged, that were made available by the various parties, and
on a review of the project files. The participation in, and contributions to the work of that mission
by Prof. Jaya Indiresan, consultant to SDC, and Prof. S. K. Shrivastava of the Bank's Delhi Office,
are gratefully acknowledged.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3093-4-5-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. The Electronics Industry Development Project approved by the Board in
1989, went forward at a time when the Bank's project portfolio in the industrial sector comprised
activity in a variety of selected subsectors, specifically fertilizer, petrochemicals, cement, and
steel, and in a variety of cross-cutting areas, specifically project finance, export development,
and technology development. Subsequently, environmental pollution control was added as a
special topic pursued by the Bank in its assistance strategy for the industrial sector. But notably,
by about 1991, the Bank's assistance strategy had undergone a sea change. Subsector lending
ceased with the present electronics project, and interventions contemplated in the areas of capital
goods and public enterprise reform were limited to sector work and studies financed under grants
for technical assistance. In its place, assistance to India impacting on the industrial sector
emphasized policy-based adjustment loans, the first of which was approved by the Board in
December, 1991. The switch to adjustment lending itself was made possible only because a
government and industry consensus coalesced in favor of reform, which in turn was facilitated
by the Bank's protracted subsector interventions and the mass of sector work and subsector
intelligence which underlay them.  Between 1987 and 1991, the industrial sector work
undertaken by the Bank included subsector studies of the automotive, capital goods, electronics,
and fertilizer subsectors, along with cross-cutting work on export development, technology
development, sick industry policy, industrial regulatory reform, public enterprise rationalization,
trade policy reform, and financial sector reform. Within this context, the electronics project
should be seen not simply as the last of an era, but more correctly as the last of an era which
helped to make the new era possible, one in which Indian banks and Indian industry are
increasingly able, without need of Bank support, to mobilize resources for themselves on
international markets. The present project helped make that possible (para. 2) .
2.     Project Objectives. The Electronics Industry Development Project (EIDP) had the
broad objective of supporting the Government of India (GOI) in its goal of fostering an
internationally competitive electronics and software industry. The narrower objectives of the
project as designed were: (a) to provide technical and financial support to the two largest
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) in improving their capability to identify, appraise, and
finance sound projects as well as to improve the performance of existing firms in this sector; (b)
to assist in upgrading the training of medium and high level technical and professional
manpower needed for the rapid and efficient growth of the industry; (c) to help to lay the basis
for long-term continued improvement in the policy environment for electronics; and (d) to help
to shape India's strategy, and prepare projects to support, software development.
1 Paragraph references within the Evaluation Summary are to the main text.



3.    As stated, these objectives were both clear, and, against the background of the sector
work2 which preceded the project, desirable (paras. 1-3). Moreover, these objectives appeared a
priori to be both realistic and achievable. While the broader objective of the project was
unchanged throughout, the narrow objective related to the role of the DFIs had to be curtailed,
the victim of positive policy change in the financial sector. The objectives related to manpower,
although cast only on a pilot scale, were institutionally ambitious but the objectives set were both
desirable, and ultimately achievable.
4.    Implementation Experience and Results. The project comprised three components in
four parts, namely: (a) a credit line component to support investment subprojects in the
electronics and software industries, and comprising two loans of US$101 million each to the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)--Part A of the Project--and to the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)--Part B of the Project; (b) a manpower component
(Part C) financed by a Bank loan of US$8.0 million to the Government of India (GOI),
Department of Electronics (DOE), and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
(SDC) grant of CHF25 million (US$16.2 million at appraisal); and (c) a technical assistance
component (Part D) financed by Japan Grant of Yen364.5 million (US$2.7 million). The Bank
loans and the Japan Grant became effective on September 14, 1989, and the SDC Grant
Agreement was signed March 7, 1991. Loans 3094-IN and 3095-IN, supporting the credit line
component, closed ahead of schedule, respectively October 28, 1993 and March 29, 1993, after
cancellations of the then remaining balances, leaving amounts utilized respectively at US$50.3
million for ICICI, and US$21.3 million for IDBI. Loan 3093-IN to GOI, together with the SDC
grant, closed, after two extensions, on March 31, 1997. The Japan Grant was closed ahead of
schedule, on April 20, 1996, after cancellation of the then balance of Yenl4O.9 million (US$1.2
million).
5.    Overall, the project outcome is rated as a success, although the implementation
experience was mixed. The main factor affecting the project was macroeconomic change
affecting the financial sector. Rupee devaluation--47 percent between 1989 and 1991-- followed
by the introduction of partial convertibility in March, 1992--a move that was welcomed by the
Bank and in keeping with its macroeconomic policy advice to the government--completely
destroyed demand for the credit line before it was fully committed. As designed, subloans
ca[rried a rupee-tied interest rate fixed under the Government-administered Exchange Risk
Administration Scheme (ERAS) (para. 5). The interest rate so fixed contained a premium
designed to compensate the GoverDment for bearing the exchange risk. This premium was set so
high following devaluation, that subloan interest rates rose to 26 percent, while rupee rates on the
market ranged on 18-22 percent, and subborrowers could make use of the newly established
convertibility of the rupee to have access to foreign currency. A market-based solution was
proposed that would have obviated the problem, namely converting the line into single-currency
dollars, but the Bank at that time could not change from its currency pool lending instrument,
which was unattractive to subborrowers. The intermediaries for their part were not permitted, by
charter, from assuming any exchange rate risk. As a result, the credit line component utilized
only about US$72 million of a total allocation of US$202 million. This outcome did not,
however, affect the pace of investment, as the DFIs were able to meet their commitments to
subborrowers using alternative funding (paras. 5, 9). Over the period 1992-97, output growth in
the electronics and computer segments averaged 22 percent per annum, comprising 17 percent
2 Report No. 6781 -IN, India: Development of the Electronics Industry: A Sector Report, May 14, 1987.



iii
for hardware segments, and 53 percent for software segments, a result which suggests that the
key objective sought under the project of facilitating viable investment projects in these areas
was met (para. 4), though Bank resources for this purpose were in the end not required.
6.     The manpower component was also affected by rupee depreciation, the main result being
that SDC grant funds were under-utilized by CHF6.7 million (para. 9), since these funds were
used in large part to reimburse local expenditures related to the Industry Attachment Program,
the Learning Materials Development, Instruction Enhancement Program, furniture for training
laboratories, and the hiring of local consultants. The Bank loan of US$8.0 million was however
almost fully utilized, as this was disbursed against equipment imports.  The manpower
component was affected adversely more by delay in implementation. An initial start-up delay in
establishing and staffing the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was never made up, and in the
end the project was completed some 15 months behind the original Closing Date (para. 15).
7.     The technical assistance component comprised three subcomponents--a software study, a
seminar series program addressing "state-of-the art" issues, and support to the DFIs for overseas
training of appraisal staff. Apart from the seminar series, which was discontinued after midterm
review, this component was well implemented. The software study was hailed as "the single
event that transformed the industry" (para. 7). The training program for DFI staff was useful in
providing the opportunity for the 32 participants, to see first-hand, plants overseas which
exemplify the latest in terms of scale and technology. As a result of the discontinuing of the
seminar series (para. 8), cost savings of US$1.2 million under the Japan Grant were secured. An
attempt to utilize the savings to fund other relevant studies did not succeed, as continual delays
and obstacles caused the Bank to disallow the request for extension.
8.     The performance of the Bank was satisfactory in all areas, highly satisfactory in the area
of project identification. The project was well chosen as contributing to, and supporting the
much larger reform effort that the Bank was urging at the time, while being responsive to the
new reform consensus that was emerging within Indian industry. Reform, when it came,
impacted this project, and others which helped to foster a positive climate for reform. Project
preparation and appraisal, in their technical aspects, were satisfactory. The packaging decision
which lumped together the three project components may however have been flawed, since,
while they all shared the same starting premise of helping India to achieve an internationally
competitive electronics and software industry, they all could have been and were, independently
implemented (para. 21).  Moreover, the credit line and technical assistance components
undoubtedly were delayed to accommodate preparation of the manpower component, which,
when it was presented to the Board, was not as far advanced, in terms of establishing the PIU and
other implementation arrangements, as it ideally should have been. In project supervision, the
Bank's performance was satisfactory, notwithstanding some misunderstanding between the Bank
and SDC as to respective roles under the manpower component (para. 26). With respect to the
credit line and technical assistance components, the Bank's performance in supervising the!
activities was creative and catalytic, though some intractable problems remained (paras. 25, 27).
9.     The Borrower's performance also was satisfactory (paras. 28-29). With respect to the
credit line component, the DFIs performed well up until commitments and disbursements stalled,
for reasons that have been addressed. Even thereafter, but with alternative sources of funding,
they have continued to perform well. With respect to the technical assistance component,
performance was mixed, but with the exemplary benefits, in respect of the software study and
DFI technical assistance, already alluded to. With respect to the manpower component, while



iv
there was some initial start-up delay that could perhaps better have been anticipated at appraisal,
the implementation thereafter has been exemplary, especially when taking in view the
institutionally complex nature of this component, which involved the coordinated action of 37
institutions and the lenders.
10.   Summary of Findings, and Future Operations. Overall, the project has helped India
in moving toward the objective of achieving an internationally competitive electronics and
software industry (para. 30). In terms of project finance, no future Bank operations appear
warranted, as the DFIs are able to raise resources on domestic and foreign financial markets
without difficulty, and they are now mature institutions that are operationally self-sustaining.
With respect to the manpower component, more work needs to be done, both to consolidate on
thle gains achieved under the present project, and in addition, to expand the range of institutions
participating. SDC is committed to a follow-on project to assist in this endeavor. The Bank for
its part, may also want to consider further support, as there are issues, most notably of student
financing (para. 33), in which the Bank as a change agent may be well placed to assist.
11.   Key Lessons. The main lessons learnt from the present project may be summarized as
follows (para. 34). First, desirable macro-economic policy change can sometimes adversely
impact on the stated objectives of ongoing Bank operations designed under a sub-optimal policy
framework, as was seen with the collapse of the ERAS scheme (para. 5). As part of project risk
analysis, it is sometimes a good idea to prepare for the best, not only the worst. Second, the
Bank's involvement at the level of the subsector, through its influence in shaping consensus at
the level on industry and of industry associations, and also through the subsector intelligence it
affords, can be a desirable complement to macro-economic policy dialog. Third, the project
demonstrates that not only the borrowers, but the Bank also needs to be responsive to market
forces. Two years before the terms of Bank lending were altered from currency pool to single
currency loans, at the borrower's option, this project exhibited such a requirement (paras. 23,
25). Fourth, the collaboration with SDC was not as smooth as it could have been. If an explicit
project launch workshop was conducted early on, at which respective roles were clearly defined
and a framework for project supervision and monitoring put in place, collaboration with
cofinancier could have been more amicable and effective (para. 26). Fifth, early involvement of
the implementing institutions with the project preparation activity would reduce time required to
bring the implementation unit up to speed with project design and avoid gestation lags that the
present project encountered (para. 28). Sixth, the scope of pilot scale projects should include a
design for evaluation of the pilot-scale activity, as this would be a necessary precedent to any
contemplated scale-up (para. 29).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loans 3093-4-5-IN
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The Electronics Industry Development Project (EIDP) had the broad objective of
supporting the Government of India (GOI) in its goal of fostering an internationally competitive
electronics and software industry. The narrower objectives of the project as designed were: (a) to
provide technical and financial support to assist the two largest Development Finance Institutions
(DFIs) improve their capability to identify, appraise, and finance sound projects as well as to
improve the performance of existing firms in this sector; (b) to assist in upgrading the training of
medium and high level technical and professional manpower needed for the rapid and efficient
growth of the industry; (c) to help to lay the basis for long-term continued improvement in the
policy environment for electronics; and (d) to help to shape India's strategy, and prepare projects
to support, software development.
2.    As stated, these objectives were both clear, and, against the background of the sector work'
which preceded the project, desirable. Moreover, these objectives appeared a priori to be both
realistic and achievable. This project was put forward, in 1989, at a time when GOI was still
feeling its way tentatively toward economic and policy reform aimed at fostering an internationally
competitive manufacturing sector. The Bank helped in this endeavor by carrying out a series of
subsector studies, a common theme of which was to sketch the outlines of a reform program that
sought, in a practical and realistic way, to move from the then status quo which was characterized
by heavy import protection, production licensing, and high cost, inefficient modes of production,
toward less protection, greater freedom of entry and exit, and more internationally cost-competitive
modes of production. In addition to a study of the electronics subsector, the Bank at around that
time carried out studies of the automotive, steel, capital goods, and fertilizer subsectors, while
maintaining involvement, through on-going projects, in the steel, cement, petrochemicals, and
fertilizer subsectors, and more broadly in the financial sector through credit-line operations. Sector
work had also been carried out or was underway addressing the cross-cutting areas of public
enterprises, sick industry policy, industrial regulatory reform, trade policy reform, and financial
sector reform. Within that context of a vibrant policy dialogue, the electronics and software
subsector offered itself as an area where concrete help could be provided, while at the same time
there appeared reasonable assurance that conditions were being made increasingly favorable for the
achievement by India of international competitiveness. The context was therefore in place that
would justify the objectives sought under the project, both from the Bank's point of view, and
Gol's. Moreover, the objectives appeared realistic, although clear risk factors were identified and
assessed right from the beginning.
Report No. 6781-1N, India: Development of the Electronics Industry, A Sector Report, May 14, 1987.



2
3.     In the event, while the broader objective of the project was unchanged throughout, the
narrow objective related to the role of the DFIs had to be curtailed, the victim of positive policy
change (paras. 11-12) in the financial sector. The objectives related to manpower, although cast
only on a pilot scale, were institutionally ambitious--the implementation delays experienced might
perhaps have been foreseen--but the objectives set were both desirable, and ultimately achievable.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     Sector Policies.  Narrowly construed, the project had no sector policy objectives, since
there were no policy changes that were to be implemented as conditions of the supporting loans or
in the course of project implementation. At the same time, the broader objective of fostering an
internationally competitive industry carried with it the clear expectation that GOI would follow
through on reforms already tentatively started by 1989. This the GOI did. The reforms have been
broaclbased, and have by and large proceeded in the desired direction. Restrictions on entry and
exit were eased, and tariffs and quantitative restrictions on competing imports have been reduced
(Table 1) ensuring continuing competitive pressures whose impact could only be to imnprove the
Table 1: RECENT IMPORT DUTY CHANGES
(percent)
Item                  FY95       FY96      FY97       FY98
(proposed)
Computers and peripherals            65         40         22        22
Integrated circuits                  40         25         22         12
Color monitor tubes                  40         25         22        12
Hard disk drives and storage devices  65        25         12         12
Electronic computer parts            50         35         22         12
Specified raw materials               20        15         12         12
Specific components                   40        25         22        22
Populated PCBs of electronic goods    65        35         32        22
Color picture tubes                   65        40         37        32
Glass parts for picture tubes        30         30         27        27
Color TVs in accompanied baggage      80        80         62        52
Source: ICICI.
international competitiveness of the industry. While the present project cannot be directly credited
with these achievements, it is not unfair to suggest that work such as was carried out in the context
of this project and its preceding sector work helped to crystallize in practical terms the issues
involved in contemplating a program of sector reform, and in so doing it helped to build the
consensus within industry and government to press forward. Electronics was key in this regard as
it epitomized an area where India had potential competitive advantage that could only be dulled
within a protectionist regime, reducing prospects for export growth that would otherwise be
attainable. Software, in particular, was directly targeted within the project as an area where India
could be helped in shaping an essentially outward-oriented strategy, and that intervention worked
spectacularly well, with the segment enjoying a sustained growth rate of 50 percent per annum
over the VIII-th Plan period (1992-97), moreover with industry insiders directly crediting the work
which the project helped to support (para. 7). Not only in software, but more broadly, India of
course has opted to push for export growth, the achievement of international competitiveness, and
the globalization of the economy, turning away from the inward-oriented, import-substitution
strategy that had been pursued for four decades following Independence.  It did so with a
suddenness and a pace that was not anticipated at the time the project was designed, though it was



3
a result that was hoped for. The Bank's work with India in the electronics and software sector
could only have helped in hastening the process. When change came, the Bank changed its lending
strategy along with it, and the present project effectively became the last subsector-specific credit-
line operation.
5.    Financial Objectives. While welcome as desirable change, the reform process negatively
affected some financial objectives of the project. Commitments and disbursements under the credit
line component first stalled, then dried up completely. It stalled in the wake of rupee devaluation
(47 percent between 1989 and 1991), which rendered insolvent the Exchange Risk Administration
Scheme (ERAS) under which subloans were made. This led the ERAS administrators to raise the
(rupee-tied) on lending rate to a prohibitive 26 percent p.a. Demand for the credit line then dried
up completely when the rupee was made partially convertible, allowing subborrowers to have
access to foreign currency without paying more than 18 percent-22 percent for rupee borrowings,
less than the rupee-tied rate which the ERAS administrators left unchanged at 26 percent. As a
result, only about US$72 million equivalent, out of a total credit line availability of US$202
million for the two DFIs together, were utilized, and the rest was canceled.
6.     This cancellation had little effect on the implementation of appraised subprojects, however,
as these went through with alternative financing (see Part II, Statistical Tables 8A and 8B).
Subborrowers and others raised 64 percent of project funding, as compared with 37 percent
estimated at Appraisal. The DFIs for their part had improved access to the international financial
markets, which allowed them to raise foreign currency resources, independent of the Bank, to the
tune of US$95.6 million equivalent, when Appraisal estimates had provided for none. This
improved access to international capital markets was made possible in part by GoI's financial
sector reform measures.
7.    Institutional Development.  The institutional development objectives sought under the
project were well and substantially achieved, in all of the components.  In the manpower
component (see Section IV of ICR mission Aide-Memoire, reproduced herein as Annex A), which
was the most institutionally complex of the three main project components, project objectives were
substantially achieved, and an institutional foundation well laid for the accelerated diffusion of best
practice as it relates to manpower training for the electronics and software industry. Institutional
development objectives with respect to the credit line component were achieved, with a combined
total of 32 DFI staff having been sent overseas, to see first-hand, plants, in both the West and Far
East, that represent state-of-the-art in terms of scale and technology in a variety of industry
segments. The DFIs continued to play a major role2 in financing the sustained rapid growth of the
electronics and software sector, which registered a combined 22 percent p.a. growth over the
period 1992-97, comprising 17 percent for hardware segments, and 53 percent for software. With
respect to the software study which was financed under the technical assistance component, this
has been referred to as "the single event that transformed the industry," (Annex A, Section V).
The software industry, partly as a result of this intervention, is now well organized, with the
National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) playing a key and vibrant
2 IDBI's sanctions and disbursements for projects in the electronics subsector increased four-fold between fiscal years
89/90 and 95/96. ICICI's outstanding portfolio in the subsector increased 41 percent between fiscal years 92/93 and
96/97, from Rs 5.6 billion to Rs 7.9 billion.



4
role in articulating an export strategy for the country as a whole, and advising GOI on policy
changes and actions needed to alleviate constraints as they emerge.
8.    The one initiative in the institutional development area which fell flat was the state-of-the-
art seminar series. There were two variants of this intervention that were provided for, one under
the manpower component, the other under the technical assistance component, both to be
implemented by DOE with the help of consultants. Notwithstanding the use of consultants hired to
organize these seminars, it was decided after the first of these had been mounted a number of times
acrosis the country, that the effort entailed a major supervisory burden for the DOE that was not
justified by the benefits secured, nor by the response received from industry. The remaining
seminars contemplated were consequently dropped.
9.    Physical Objectives.  The main physical objectives sought under the project were
respectively the investment activity under the credit line component, and the variety of
interventions under the manpower component intended to improve educational and training activity
relevant to the sector. With respect to investment activity, subprojects identified and appraised
under the project were carried out notwithstanding the cancellation of the balances after only about
US$72 million were disbursed. Total investment was, if anything, higher than that anticipated at
Appraisal, totaling US$662 million, as compared with US$420 million anticipated. With respect to
the manpower component, the Bank's allocation of US$8.0 million was almost fully disbursed,
while CHF18.3 million (out of CHF25 million) of the SDC grant have been disbursed. This
expenditure is reflected in buildings, laboratories, equipment, books, journals, learning materials
and curriculum development, etc., representing the physical objectives sought and achieved.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   Factors not generally subject to government control. There were no natural disasters, war
or civil disturbance affecting the project. Neither was there any major deficiency in performance
of the Bank, cofinancier, or of any contractors or consultants.  World market conditions if
anything were favorable, as export performance (41 percent p.a. growth over the period 1992-97)
was al major factor driving growth in electronics and software.
11.   With respect to the credit line component, the major factor affecting the project was
macroeconomic change affecting the financial sector. During 1989-1991, India was responding to
a number of external shocks by undertaking measures to strengthen the financial system and
deregulation of the exchange rate regime. As a result, the ERAS scheme was rendered unworkable
(see para. 5). This accounts for the most salient feature of the project which is that the major
(credit line) component, for which US$202 million was allocated, was utilized only to the extent of
about US$72 million, the rest having been canceled. As already indicated (para. 9), however, the
response of the DFIs and subborrowers was sufficient to make up for the IBRD financing shortfall,
and subprojects appraised and approved under the credit line by and large went forward as
planned, albeit with delays in some instances.
12.   This broader macro-economic change affected the manpower component as well, though
not as greatly. Rupee devaluation caused the inflation of project cost in rupee terms. It also
caused significant cost savings, in respect of the SDC outlays for local expenditures such as



5
furniture, consultants and the like, in terms of foreign currency requirements. Consequently, the
allocation of the cofinancier, SDC, was under-utilized to the tune of CHF6.7 million, out of
CHF25 million, the original total allocation. The World Bank loan for this component, US$8.0
million, was however almost fully utilized, as it was disbursed against equipment imports.
13.   With respect to the abandonment of the state-of-the-art seminar series under the manpower
and technical assistance components, the major factor here was the marketing and other outreach
that would have been needed to make this activity a success. Insufficient industry response to this
marketing outreach was certainly beyond the control of government and its PIU, but the calculated
decision thereafter to abandon the activity was. This added to the cost savings under the technical
assistance component, which totaled US$1.2 million.
14.   Factors generally subject to government control. While the manpower component was in
the end well and successfully implemented, it was subject to start-up delay in actions that fell to
GOI to implement, specifically the setting up and staffing of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), the final selection of participating institutions and resource centers under the project, and
the concluding of an agreement with SDC for cofinancing the project. The last was anticipated to
be concluded by December 31, 1989. For a variety of reasons, principally the conclusion and
internal approval within GOI of a Detailed Project Report (DPR), the SDC agreement was not
concluded until March 7, 1991. This start-up delay was never made up (para. 15) and the Closing
Date had to be extended to accommodate completion of this project component.
15.   Factors subject to control of implementing agencies. With respect to the manpower
component, the PIU took up its task with great dedication and commitment, coordinating the
efforts of some 37 institutions. However, the gestation lags involved in an effort of this magnitude
were likely underestimated at appraisal. On the other hand, the PIU may have been slow in
correcting an initial understaffing problem. Moreover, the PIU may have been slow also in putting
in place adequate project management structures for implementation, monitoring and evaluation. It
was not until 1994, that the PIU, with assistance from SDC, mounted a project planning workshop
(ZOPP). The workshop helped in bringing about a clear understanding of this project component
among the PIs, which responded enthusiastically, setting the stage for excellent cooperation and
later successful implementation. Compared to the time agreed at Negotiations, the component has
been brought in 15 months behind the scheduled Completion Date of December 31, 1995, which
itself was 18 months beyond what was thought actually to be required, per the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). Delay in establishing and properly staffing the PIU accounts for most of the delay.
A PIU Director was appointed in June, 1990, about a year behind appraisal estimate. The
cofinancing agreement between GOI and Switzerland was entered into in March, 1991, later than
had been anticipated because the approval by GOI of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was a
condition of concluding this document. The staffing of the Unit remained a problem--as at June
1992, three years later than was anticipated at appraisal, a procurement officer still had not been
hired--some of the delay being attributed to the difficulty of finding an individual with prior
experience of Bank procurement and disbursement guidelines--and the PIU remained understaffed
in relation to the staffing strength envisaged at appraisal. It seems clear that the implementation
schedule drawn up at appraisal was over-optimistic, and miscalculated first the internal GOI
processes--the preparation and approval of the DPR--needed to get the project underway, and
second the time it would take a newly appointed PIU director to staff the Unit and have it fully



6
functioning. At the same time, it is hard not to think that the PIU could have moved more quickly
in getting up to speed. With respect to the technical assistance component, the seminar series was
curtailed, for reasons earlier addressed (para. 8). An attempt was made to utilize the savings so
generated by conducting three additional studies following up on the very successful (para. 30)
software study, specifically: (i) a study on workforce development in information technology; (ii) a
study of financing for software firms, and (iii) a study of export potential of the Indian software
industry. The implementation responsibility for these studies was transferred to ICICI in 1992.
However, as of December, 1995, these studies had not yet got off the ground, pending a decision
on tax exemption for the consultants. The Bank declined a request to extend the Closing Date for
the Japan Grant to March 31, 1997 to permit these studies to be undertaken, citing "lack of action
to carry out the studies in a timely manner."
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
16.   The achievement of the objectives sought under the project is likely to be sustainable.
17.   DFI Finance. With respect to the DFIs' ability to identify, appraise and finance viable
projects in the electronics and software industry, this does not appear supply-constrained or
institutionally-constrained at the present. Notwithstanding the cancellation of most of the credit
line component, both participating DFIs went on to add significantly to their electronics and
software portfolios (para. 9). Financial sector reform, while altering the terms under which it
becarne feasible for the Bank to lend to these institutions, strengthened considerably their ability to
mobilize foreign currency resources without resort to the World Bank. Both have since been
successful in independently raising resources on world markets, eliminating supply-side constraints
as a possible bar to sustainability of the kind of activities sought under the project.
18.   Any constraints must rest instead with demand, which for the moment shows no sign of
abating.  Output growth performance of the industry (22 percent p.a. over 1992-97) has far
outpaced overall economic growth (6.0 percent p.a.), and industrial sector growth (7.4 percent
p.a.). And export performance of the industry (41 percent p.a. over 1992-97) is even more
impressive. The policy environment is on the whole favorable to continued efficient, outward-
oriented growth of this industry, and the sources of competitive advantage--large domestic market
that can support scale economies, and provide a base from which to aggressively pursue export
markets, and huge supply of low-cost skilled, technical and scientific manpower--will not soon be
vitiated by the economic trends and forces at play, which in the longer run would of course act to
eliminate this advantage.
19.   Demand side forces are the surest guarantor of sustainability with respect to the objectives
sough-t under the manpower component. While there remains some uncertainty as to the modalities
of attempting to scale up the pilot-scale exercise that constituted the manpower component of the
present project, there is a clamor for inclusion by engineering colleges and polytechnics that were
not included in the present project that should almost certainly guarantee a continuing supply
response. The cofinancier of the present project, SDC, has already indicated its determination to
support a follow-up project, and the DOE, likewise, is committed--and already staffed--to follow
through. As they do so, continuing budgetary stringency would likely limit the extent to which the
programs supported would continue to be grant based. Already, participating institutions under the



7
present project are being forced to pursue programs that would ensure a greater degree of self-
sustainability of the initiatives. Enhanced revenue generation is key in this effort, and expected to
flow from expanded fee-based (i) continuing engineering education program (CEEP) course
offerings, (ii) equipment maintenance activities, and (iii) consultancy services to business and
industry. There is a fourth avenue of revenue generation which needs to be actively explored,
which is to raise student fees. There is little doubt, based on the income stream that flow to
graduates and diplomates in the electronics and computer fields, that higher student fees in these
disciplines would do little to dampen the strong demand; there would likely be a concurrent need,
however, to institute some sort of student loan scheme to bridge the financial gap for students
between current cash outflows to pay tuition, expenses, and living costs, and the future income
stream that is almost certain to flow upon graduation.  There is a fifth source of revenue
generation, which is grant support from industry to endow professorial chairs, university and
polytechnic laboratories, etc. This has already happened to a remarkable degree in India, and
likely to continue. All in all, indications are that powerful demand forces at work domestically and
internationally, and India's strong positioning, make it highly likely that the gains secured under
the present project are sustainable.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
20.   Project Identification.  Electronics and software industries were correctly identified as
thrust areas in which India should aim for international competitiveness. More perhaps than in
most industrial subsectors, with the possible exception of the closely related and overlapping
subsector of capital goods, electronics and software represent an area where the prize of export
earnings and growth is endangered by inward-looking protectionist industrial policy. This project,
and the sector work which preceded it, represented a practical "case study" of sorts illuminating
the choices faced by India.  The consensus emerged within industry that the comforts of
protectionism, if it meant high costs and lack of international competitiveness, should be rejected
in favor of the greater opportunities offered by an outward orientation, albeit with the dangers and
threats that come with tighter integration into the global marketplace. Without that consensus
emerging within industry itself, it is unlikely that GOI would ultimately have been as bold as it was
in the reforms that were ushered in starting about 1991 with the massive rupee devaluations whose
effects on the credit-line component were negative, as has been seen, but which was the necessary
first step of the reform program. This project was well chosen as contributing to, and supporting,
this much broader reform effort that the Bank was urging at the time, while also being responsive
to the new consensus that was emerging within Indian industry. The reforms, when they came,
were however sooner than the project designers anticipated.
21.   Project Preparation.  Overall, although the project components individually were well
conceived and designed, and although they were all linked by the shared premise of a common
overall objective--helping India in its supply response to perceived competitive advantages in the
electronics and software areas--they could nevertheless have been separately implemented, and
arguably should have. As it happened, the credit line component came to an end by March, 1993,
ahead of schedule for reasons which have been discussed (para. 5). This eventuality did not in any
way affect the justification for and usefulness of the manpower component, which was just then
getting off the ground, and which did not come to a close until four years later. Likewise, the
activities undertaken with Japan Grant under the technical assistance component could as well, and



8
with equal justification, have proceeded in the absence of the other two components. The
independence of these components does not straight-away warrant the conclusion that they should
have been implemented separately, as a priori there are advantages and disadvantages to both
options. The disadvantages were that by forcing the three components to march in lock-step, the
credit line and technical assistance components were delayed because of the manpower component,
since these could have followed on from the 1987 sector report much more quickly than in the end
they did, while the manpower component, although well designed, was institutionally not ready
when the project went to the Board, as evidenced by the institutionally-oriented delays (paras. 14-
15) that then ensued. As against these disadvantages, and associated costs, the advantages appear
to be limited to the illusionary one of justification--the manpower component could not stand alone
in terms of bureaucratic justification, notwithstanding all its institutional complexity, because the
amount of the loan (US$8.0 million equiv.) would have been too small, while without the
institution-building features of the manpower and technical assistance components, the credit line
component would have been deemed insufficiently innovative. Whatever might have been the
compulsions a priori that drove the decision to put three independent, though related, components
together, the outcome ex post seems clear that project preparation was the worse for it. Nor were
there scale economies in project supervision, if any, that could not also largely have been secured
by having three separate projects, each implemented on its own natural timetable.
22.   Taking the components individually, however, and with respect in particular to the quantity
and quality of staff that were deployed to assist the Borrower in project preparation, and the quality
of the work that was produced, the Bank performed very well.
23.   Project Appraisal. The appraisal document was well written, and the judgments expressed
in the document were well founded and in places prescient in describing the risks that threatened
successful implementation.  The riskiness of the ERAS arrangement under the credit line
component was well identified and discussed. The risk of implementation delay in respect of the
manpower component also was well identified in the appraisal report. In the event, it is hard to
fault the appraisers for pressing ahead with the ERAS design, since even after its demise, the Bank
had not the flexibility in its lending instruments to fashion a market based solution to the problem.
(Subborrowers would have been willing, after the collapse of ERAS, to borrow in dollars on a
single currency basis--and assume the exchange risk in so doing--but not the Bank's currency pool.
Two years on, the Bank amended its offerings to allow single currency loans, but too late to save
the line which had been long canceled by that time.) With respect, however, to the manpower
component, it is difficult in hindsight to see how the appraisers could have been as optimistic as
they were with respect to the implementation schedule. The appraisers anticipated that additional
supervision at start-up would have reduced the risk, but again in hindsight, the gestation delays
involved in producing a Detailed Project Report, and in staffing the PIU could not have been
amenable to solution through additional supervision. These drawbacks however are clear only in
hindsight, for which reason the appraisal cannot be rated less than satisfactory.
24.   Project Supervision. All implementing entities have expressed satisfaction with the quality
of the Bank's supervision.
25.   With respect to the credit line component, the average response lag for subloan applications
was 14.1 (calendar) days, which is acceptable, though not exemplary. Emerging problems under



9
this component were quickly identified by supervision missions, and the response by Bank staff in
attempting to resolve the issue was creative and thorough. In the end, it was the uniqueness of the
Bank's currency pool which prevented a market-based solution from emerging, following the
collapse of the GOI-sponsored ERAS scheme for onlending. That the Bank later extended its
single currency loan offerings may be attributed in part to the work that was done in the context of
project similar to this one.
26.    With respect to the manpower component, the Bank in its supervision reporting accurately
conveyed the facts at issue, although the ratings, in hindsight, considering the considerable start-up
delays that were experienced, may have been too high. One may speculate that more severe
ratings would have engendered a more proactive stance, and helped the PIU to achieve a faster
start-up.  The collaboration with the cofinancier worked well, though not without some
misunderstandings. The Bank envisaged from the outset that SDC would play an active role in
supervision, given its "long experience in India",3 while the SDC seemed at first uncertain as to
how proactive they should be given that it was a "Bank" project. Later, however, SDC played a
critical role in helping, together with the PIU, to organize the ZOPP4 workshop which was
acclaimed by all participants as helping to lend clarity to the framework for project
implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. Thereafter, SDC took the lead role in conducting the
mid-term review (May, 1995) for this component, with the Bank making only an ex post
contribution. After the mid-term, the Bank altered its supervision arrangements, making use on a
day-to-day basis of selected staff at the Resident Mission. This arrangement worked well, and
helped to expedite remaining procurement and other supervision issues that emerged from time to
time.
27.   With respect to the technical assistance component: The software study was well
implemented, and the results met with acclaim in India in software circles. The training program
for the DFIs was also well implemented, also with positive results for the DFIs. And the seminar
series program was in the end discontinued for reasons previously mentioned (para. 8). The
Bank's performance in supervising these activities was creative, and catalytic, as staff sought to
leverage initiatives under this project, in particular the software study, into a broader involvement
in support of informatics development. GOI in fact requested follow-up assistance in this area
from the Bank, which however declined, as by that time the Bank's approach to industry lending
had changed (para. 4). When the seminar series program was discontinued, staff attempted to
make use of the savings by helping to identify, and draft terms of reference for, a number of
additional studies in the informatics area that were worth pursuing, but which in the end became
bogged down by a variety of delays and obstacles that caused the Bank to decline the Closing Date
extension that would have been needed for these to go forward (para. 15).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   The commitment of all the parties to this project was very high. The DFIs, until the ERAS
problem arose, were performing in line with expectations in terms of commitments and
disbursements, and the quality of the subproject appraisals was generally adequate. Of 108
subloans approved (before cancellations), only two occasioned queries, for which satisfactory
3 Per the aide-memoire of the January/February, 1990 mission.
4 German acronym for Goal Oriented Project Planning.



10
answers were provided. One project was rejected, but only because it ventured into the area of
telecommunications, which the Bank did not want included under the present project. The level of
project ownership and conmmitment within DOE was very high, and was instrumental in bringing
the manpower component to a successful conclusion, despite start-up and institutional difficulties.
DOEi's performance in this regard may be rated as exemplary. There was arguably a deficiency in
preparation, however, in that the PIU Director was not appointed already at the preparation stage,
to forestall start-up delays in implementation. To the extent this was due to procedural constraints
related to the timing of project approval and funding commitments, these may need to be re-
examined if future projects are to be implemented without start-up delays. The technical assistance
component, except for the seminar series program, was well implemented by the Borrowers--the
DFIs and DOE. And in the case of the seminar series, the action taken to discontinue was well
considered and timely. The savings thereby generated offered up an opportunity to carry out some
additional studies in the informatics area but this opportunity went unseized for reasons previously
addressed (paras. 15, 27). Compliance with covenants was satisfactory, albeit with occasional
delays in the provision of audit reports.
29.   With respect to the follow-up action which is needed, in the case of the manpower
component, some more work than has so far been done is required to draw the lessons of the pilot
scale operation which constituted the present project, precedent to the scale-up exercise that must
now be attempted. These issues are addressed in the mission's aide-memoire (Annex A, paras.
4.10-4.17). Ideally, a design should have been included for evaluation of the pilot-scale activity,
as this would be a necessary precedent to any contemplated scale-up.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   Notwithstanding the cancellation of most of the credit line component, and the delay (para.
15) in completing the manpower component, the outcome of this project must be rated as
satisfactory. Growth in the electronics and software subsector has been impressive, and the DFIs
have played a major role in this result, even if resources in the end had to be mobilized from
sources other than the Bank--a result which in itself represents a broader success of the Bank in its
long association with the two DFIs concerned. Likewise, DOE is now well staffed and positioned,
having completed the manpower component, to mount the scale-up exercise which is required to
assure that the future supply of graduates and diplomates in this field would be of even higher
quality than they have been in the past. This is key to continuing success, as India faces a moving
target in terms of the global competition in this subsector. Finally, the software study undertaken
as the major part of the technical assistance component has been hailed within industry circles as
the "single event that transformed the industry," and so may be credited, at least to some degree,
with the enormous success that the Indian software industry has enjoyed since that report was
completed.
H. FuTuRE OPERATION
31.   With respect to the identification, preparation, appraisal, and financing of investment
projects in the subject subsector, it seems clear that the DFIs that participated in the project have
matured to the stage where further assistance from the Bank is not per se required, although the
perspective and observations of the Bank are valued and welcomed by these institutions. These



11
DFIs are now able to mobilize resources on international and domestic markets, and so the
Bank's erstwhile role as lender of last resort appears no longer to be required. Considering
the structure of Bank charges, which includes commitment and guarantee fees, it may even be
the case now that the Bank is no longer competitive as a source of long-term funds for these
DFIs, except in so far as the longer-term maturities that the Bank can offer makes an important
difference to the volatility of onlending rates, and in terms of liability mix and management.
Therefore, the role of the Bank as an agent of institutional development, and as a source of
long term foreign currency resources, has now by and large been rendered redundant by
success. This leaves a role for these DFIs, vis-a-vis the Bank, as administrators of funds
sought to be allocated by the Bank for such purposes as environmental pollution control and
protection of the ozone layer. But not for electronics and software. Therefore no future
intervention by GOI or the Bank is envisaged in the area of providing project finance. What
GOI must continue is its broader reform program intended to reduce levels of protection and
costs even further, and thereby to strengthen the international competitiveness of local industry
even further.
32.   With respect to manpower, much remains to be done however. The cofinancier, SDC
is committed to supporting a follow-on operation intended to help secure the self-sustainability
of the initiatives launched under the present project. This is a worthy and needed endeavor,
but it needs to be supplemented by action aimed specifically at additionality, in terms of the
number of engineering colleges and polytechnics allowed to participate in the improvement
schemes designed under the present pilot scale operation.
33.   There is a potential institutional development role here for the Bank, as there are a
number of anomalies related to educational finance, where the Bank may conceivably be able
to play a role as change agent. Sustainability is crucially dependent on revenue generation by
participating educational institutions, and a key overlooked source of revenue generation is
student fees, which are grossly subsidized at the moment, even though students upon
graduation attract relatively high salaries, and so ought to bear a much higher fee burden. It is
of course acknowledged that any increase in student fees would imply a need for students to be
financed in the interim by an appropriate student loan program. These issues transcend
electronics and computer education, but the huge student demand in these areas makes it
potentially a test area for broader educational finance reform. It should be pointed out that
GOI has instituted some change in this regard already, although much remains to be done.
Technical institutes have been permitted to be established on a self-financing basis. Student
fees charged at Government and aided engineering colleges/polytechnics have been raised
significantly, while at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IlTs), student fees have increased
from Rs 200 per year in 1989 to Rs 15,000 at present. To the extent such changes will require
supporting institutional change in the area of student finance, the Bank may have an
opportunity to fulfill a function as a change agent in this regard, should the GOI so desire.



12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34. The key lessons learnt from the project may be summarized as follows:
a) desirable macro-economic policy change can sometimes adversely impact on the stated
objectives of ongoing Bank operations designed under a sub-optimal policy framework,
as was seen with the collapse of the ERAS scheme (para. 5). As part of project risk
analysis, it is sometimes a good idea to prepare for the best, not only the worst;
b) the Bank's involvement at the level of the subsector, through its influence in shaping
consensus at the level of industry and of industry associations, and also through the
subsector intelligence it affords, can be a desirable complement to macro-economic
policy dialog;
c) the project demonstrates that not only the borrowers, but the Bank also needs to be
responsive to market forces. Two years before the terms of Bank lending were altered
from currency pool to single currency loans, at the borrower's option, this project
exhibited such a requirement (paras. 23, 25);
d) the collaboration with SDC was not as smooth as it could have been. If an explicit
project launch workshop was conducted early on, at which respective roles were clearly
defmed and a framework for project supervision and monitoring put in place,
collaboration with cofinancier could have been more amicable and effective (para. 26);
e) early involvement of the implementing institutions with the project preparation activity
would reduce time required to bring the implementation unit up to speed with project
design and avoid gestation lags that the present project encountered (para. 28); and
f) the scope of pilot scale projects should include a design for evaluation of the pilot-scale
activity, as this would be a necessary precedent to any contemplated scale-up (para.
29).



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                       X
Sector policies                X
Financial objectives                           X
Institutional development      X
Physical objectives            X
Poverty reduction                                                            X
Gender concerns                                                              x
Other social objectives                                                      X
Environmental objectives                                                     X
Public sector management                                                     x
Private sector development                                                   X
__Other (specify)                                                              X
| B. |Project sustainability          Likely       |      Unlikely     |     Uncertain
Highly
C.  Bank performance              satisfactory         Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                    X
Preparation assistance                                X
Appraisal                                             X
__ ___ _Supervision                                         x
Highly
D.  Borrower performance          satisfactory         Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                        X
Covenant compliance                                   X         _
Operation (if applicable)                                            .-
|   Highly                                     UnsaHighly
E.  Assessment of outcome       satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
_ ________________                             x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                     Purpose                     Year of              Status
approval
Peceding Operations_
1. Industrial Export Project-   Support trade policy reform and increase    1986        Closed, 1992;
Engineering Products         the supply of investment funding for                     ICR, 1993;
(Loans 2629-IN and 2630-lN)   export oriented projects and export                     OED audit, 1996.
promotional activities
2. Export Development Project   Ditto. Also, to build institutional capacity  1989      Closed, 1996; ICR,
(Loans 3058-IN and 3059-IN)   in export project appraisal by                          1996;
intermediary lending institutions, and in              OED audit, 1997
advising clients on export issues and
markets
Following Operations
1. Technology Development Project  To reduce policy impediments (e.g.       1989        Closing 12/31/97; US$
(Loan 3119-IN)                restrictions on foreign private investment,            52.4m. undisb. of
controls on technology imports) to faster              US$200m orig;
absorption and development of technology               US$10.Om canceled
and to strengthen the institutional
infrastructure supporting technology
development
2. Technical Education I        To support policy reforms , institutional   1990        Closing 6/30198;
(Credit 2130-IN)              development, and the introduction of new               US$150m. undisb. of
technology and training approaches                     US$210ro orig.
3. Technical Education II       To improve Polytechnic Education           1991         Closing 6/30/99;
(Credit 2223-IN)              through capacity expansion, and quality                US$215m undisb of
and efficiency improvement, based on                   US$255m. orig.
support of GOI 10-year Program (90-99)
4. Industrial Pollution Control  To improve implementation capacity for     1991        Closing 6/30/98;
(Loan 3334-IN) (Cr. 2252-IN)  environmental pollution control measures                US$44.9m undisb. of
already in place and to improve tactical               US$155.6m
approaches to industrial pollution controls
5. Petrochemicals II            Investment. And to rationalize feedstock    1991        Closing 9/30/97;
(Loan 3258-9-IN)              (gas) price                                            US$33. Im undisb. of
US$245m orig;
US$70.3m canceled
6. Cement Industry Restucturing  Investment. And to eliminate price and     1991        Closing 6/30/97;
(Ln 3196-lN)                    distribution controls                                   US$23.3m undisb of
US$300m
7. Structural Adjustment IN)    Macroeconomic stabilization, plus           1991        Closed 1992
(Loan 3421-IN)                industrial liberalization
8. Indiustrial Pollution Prevention  To promote cost-effective pollution    1995        Closing 3/31/2002
(Loans. 3779/3780-lN)         abatement from industrial sources while                US$156.3m undisb. of
(Credit 2645-lN)              building up on enhancement of                          US$168m
implementation capacity in selected
SPCBs that started under the first
Pollution Control Project.



15
Table 3: Project Tinetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                     Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification                                                                3/12/86
10/6/87
Preparation
Preappraisal                                  11/87*                          11/25/88
Appraisal                                     4/88*                           1/23/89
Negotiations                                 5/1189**                          5/2/89
Board                                        6/27189**                        6/15/89
Signing                                                                        7/7/89
Effectiveness                                                                 9/14/89
Completion                                    6/30/95                         3/31/97
Loan Closing                                 12/31/95                         3/31/97
* As at Project Brief dated 11/17/87.
** As at Yellow Cover Review dated 4/6/89.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
IBRD Loans 3093-IN, 3094-IN, and 3095-IN
(US$ million)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97
Appraisal Estimate               19.6    80.2    151.4   192.8   207.5   209.7   210.0   210.0
Formal Revision*                20.5    55.0    76.9    81.7    72.1    83.0    94.3    94.3
Actual                          20.5    55.0    76.9    81.7    72.1    74.4    75.9    79.1
Actual as % of estimate         104.6    68.5    50.8    42.4    34.8    35.5    36.2    38.0
Date of final disbursement                                 9/93    10/93                     9/97
* Formal revision as of FY94; FY95 figure is interpolated, not given in formal revision.
** Loans 3094-IN and 3095-IN were closed as of December 31, 1993, with final disbursements 9/93 and 10/93
respectively.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Project Component             Estimate at Appraisal                  Actual
Part A (ICICI Credit Line)
Total Commitments (US$m)                US$lOm               US$109.3 m (bef. cancellations)
Total Disbursements (US$m)              US$101m                        US$50.3m
No. of Subloans                                                 76 (51 after cancellations)
% of No. above free limit                 15 %                            3 %
% of Value above free lmit             50%                               24%
_Avg. Size of Subproject ($m.)                                          US$4.5m
Avg. Size of Subloan ($m.)                                              US$1.3m
Total Investments Generated             US$210m                        US$230m
Subproject ERR                       Minimum 12%                    20%-67% ex ante
Subproject FRR                       Minimum 15%                    14%-25% ex ante
Part B (IDBI Credit Line)
Total Commitments (US$m)                US$1Olm              US$71. lm (before cancellations)
Total Disbursements (US$m)              US$101m                        US$21.3m
No. of Subloans                                                 37 (17 after cancellations)
% of No. above free limit                 15%                             6%
% of Value above free limit               50%                            38%
Avg. Size of Subproject ($m.)                                          US$28.4m
_Avg. Size of Subloan ($m.)                       ___                   US$1.6m
Total Investments Generated             US$210m i                      US$483m
,Subproject ERR                      Minimum 12%                    18%-80% ex ante
Subproject FRR                       Minimum 15 %                   13 % -25 % ex ante
Part C (Manpower Component)
No. of participating institutions          37                              37
No. of state-of-art seminars               7                               3
No. of IEP's conducted                     57                              57
No. of SSTP's conducted                    42                              51
No. of teachers trained                                                   700
No. of support staff trg. prog                                             51
No. of support staff trained                                              700
No. of LM's developed                      56                              58
No. of IAP participants                                                   4575
CEEP training (man-days/yr)                                           25000 (FY97)
N0o. of Model curricula                     3                              3



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(per year basis)
Project Component                  Estimate at Appraisal                Actual
I. Key operating indicators in SAR                     none
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)                none
III. Modified indicators for future                    none
operation (if applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose                      Status       Impact of study
1.   Software               To assess India's export potential and  Completed,    Adopted, has had
develop strategies                         1992       major impact in
terms of India's
strategic
positioning in
industry
2.   Seminar Program
Background Studies:
a. Design              To assess scope for increased design     Completed    Used for state-of-
standardization        standardization and review effectiveness               the-art seminar
of supporting measures                                program
b. Tariff Policy       To evaluate the likely revenue and        Canceled
foreign exchange impact in the short
and long term of lowering customs
tariffs and eliminating quantitative
restrictions in the electronics subsector
c. Indigenization      To evaluate the feasibility of altemative  Canceled
indigenization goals for key electronics
products likely to be produced locally in
the next five years
d. Dissemination       To assess the potential for productivity  Canceled
improvement in industry through
dissemination of informatics technology
and the indication of priorities for
further attention
e. Informatics in      To identify the scope for further         Canceled
Financial Sector     application of informatics technology in
the financial sector, and to evaluate the
socio-economic impact of such
application
f. Government/Industry  To review and assess mechanisms of       Canceled
Cooperation          Government/Industry cooperation in
other countries, and their applicability
to India, including role and
responsibility of industry associations
g. Major technologies    To assess the implications of major     Canceled
technical developments such as surface
mount technology for existing industry
and the supporting policy framework



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                   Local     Foreign
Item           Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs        Total
Credit Line
Fixed Assets         144.1       150.0       294.1       536.1       132.7        668.8
Working Capital      74.1        52.0        126.1        3.8        40.0         43.8
Sub-total             218.2       202.0       420.2       539.9       172.7        712.5
Manpower Comp.         19.3        7.5         26.8        16.4        6.7          23.1
Technical Assistance   0.6         2.4         3.0         0.3         0.4          1.7
Total                 238.1       211.9       450.0       556.6       180.7        737.3
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                  Local        Foreign
Source          Costs      Costs       Total       Costs         Costs         Total
IBRD                  0.5        209.5       210.0        2.0          77.2          79.2
GOI                   2.8                     2.8         1.2                        1.2
DFIs                  50.7                   50.7         96.8         94.4         191.2
Subborrowers/others    167.6                 167.6       442.0         6.7          449.8
SDC                   16.2                   16.2         13.2          1.1          14.3
JGF                   0.3         2.4         2.7         0.3           1.4          1.7
Total Project Cost   238.1       211.9       450.0       556.6         180.7        737.3
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Subprojects financed by the financial intermediaries were required to have projected minimum economic
rate of return (ERR) of 12 percent. IDBI subprojects had ex ante calculated ERR's ranging from 18%-80%.
ICICI subprojects ranged from 20%-67%. No calculations attempted either ex ante or ex post for the manpower
and technical assistance components.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original Revised
Covenant Present   fulfillment fulfillment Description of
Agreement Section  type      Status     date     date       covenant                            Comments
Ln. 3093    3.03       5         C      06/01/89            DOE establish Project Implementation
Unit
3.03      5         C       12/31/89           Staff Steering Committee
3.05      1         C      09/30/89            DFIs prepare work plan for TA
1.02      5         C      12/31/89           DOE to select satisfactory institutions
for manpower component
4.01       1        C                          Yearly audit of manpower and TA
components and related Special
Accounts and SOEs
5.01       1        C      12/31/90            GOI to enter into cofmancing agreement
with SDC
Ln. 3094    4.01       1         C                         Yearly audits of ICICI, project records,
Special Account, and SOEs
Ln. 3095    4.01        1        C                         Yearly audits of IDBI, project records,
I ____ I_  I_______  I________  I_______  I_______ Special Account, and  SOEs       I
Status: C - Complied with



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(No known non-compliance.)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of              Planned                Revised                 Actual
project cycle      Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
___________________                        ___________                          OOOs
N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A         271       $648.5
Through appraisal
N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A          3          7.6
Appraisal--Board
N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A          -           -
Board--effectiveness
N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A         192        577.7
Supervision
8         31.5                   43.0         10        40.0
Completion
-                -                -          476      $1,273.8
TOTAL



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of             Number  Days   Specialized        Implemen-       Develop-
project    Month/      of       in     staff skills     tation          ment         Types of
cycle      year    persons   field   represented        status        impact        problems
Through        2/86       3       28      Ec,Fin,Eng
appraisal
4/86       1       11         TE           _   _             .
9/87       3       13      Ec,Ec,Eng
12/87      2       19        Ec,Fin
3/89       8       31     Ec,Fin,Ec,          .
Eng,TE,TE,Sf
,Sf
Appraisal       -         -        -
tirough
Board
approval
Supervision    10/89      3       27       Ec,Ec,Sf          2              2            Delays
3/90       3       21      Ec,TE,Sf           1              1            Minor
10/90      4       18    Ec,TE,CS,Sf           1             1            Minor
11/91      1        7         TE               -             -         Procurement
6/92       3       12      Ec,Sf,TE           3              3         Macro;Proc.
10/92                    _ =_                        _ _              _ =_
2/93       2       5         Ec,Sf            1              1        Macro; Audit
4/93       1                  Ec              -              -           Course
Materials;
_ _______         _____________  _____________                  M onitoring
7/93       2       7         Ec,Sf            2              2         Monitoring
8/93   __                _              _ =                 _  _  _
12/93      2       19        Ec,Sf             1              1           Minor
4/94       1       5          Ec              1              1            Minor
4/95       1       10         TE              S             HS          extension;
course matl;
seminar qlty
6/96       2       7        Op,TE            HS             HS          Extension;
course matl;
studies
1/97       2       10       Op,TE             S              S         curriculum;
course matl;
OSE audit
Completion     5/97       1       17     Ec,Fin,Eng
Abbreviations: Ec = economist; Eng = engineer; Fin = financial analyst; Op = operations officer;
Sf = software specialist; TE = technical education specialist






Annex A
INDIA
Electronics Industry Development Project (Lns. 3093-5-IN)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Implementation Completion Report Mission
(May, 1997)
I. PREAMBLE AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
1.1     A mission consisting of Dr. Sidney Thomas, consultant to the World Bank, and joined
in the field by Prof. S. K. Shrivastava of the Bank's New Delhi Office, and Prof. Jaya Indiresan, con-
sultant to the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperaton (SDC), visited India May 13-28, 1997. The
purpose of the mission was to carry out the field work necessary to support the preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Electronics Industry Development Project. This pro-
ject was financed by the Bank under Loans 3093-, 3094-, and 3095-IN, and cofinanced by a grant from
SDC in its manpower component, and by a grant from the Japan Grant Facility (JGF) in its technical
assistance component.
1.2     The purpose of this aide-memoire is to record briefly the main findings of the mission.
which includes summarizing the views expressed to it by the various parties. to outline the mission's
views as to the key questions that must be addressed to assure sustained future benefits of the project,
and to summarize the projected time-table and next steps agreed by all concerned parties for the more
limited objective of producing the ICR.
1.3     The aide-memoire is written by Dr. Thomas, but has drawn on written materials con-
tributed by Profs. Shrivastava and Indiresan for the purpose. It has drawn also on written contributions
provided by the Department of Electronics (DOE), by Prof. N. J. Rao of I.I.Sc, Bangalore, and by the
Participating Institutions (Pis) of the manpower component in their various presentations. The views
expressed herein reflect however the understanding of the mission, as to the facts and judgments at
issue, not of those who kindly made written contributions for the mission's benefit. The views
expressed are also subject to review and confirmation by the Bank's management.
1.4     The mission is deeply appreciative of the warm hospitality with which it was received
everywhere it went, and especially grateful to Messrs. Mehta, Gupta, and Taneja of DOE for arranging
most of the meetings involving the manpower component. They were also gracious and engaging travel
companions. The mission is grateful too to the staff of the Industrial Development Bank of India
(IDBI) and the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) who coordinated the work
of the mission in its review of the credit line component. Special thanks are due to old friends Messrs.
A. P. Singh, P. V. Narasimhan, J. John, Mrs. Rao, and to the new ones met in the course of the mis-
sion's work, especially Ms. Mythili Ravi, and Messrs. Vishwanath, Suresh and Gwalani. While the mis-
sion was warmly received everywhere it went, it is especially grateful for the extra indulgences to which
it was treated by Capt. Bates, Chief Executive of Narmada Electronics, Mr. John of Namtech, Mr.
Mitra of NELCO, Profs. Jamadagni and Rao of I.l.Sc Bangalore, and Vice-Chancellor Ramakistayya
and Prof. Chary of Osmania University, Hyderabad. And as usual, ICICI and IDBI staff went beyond
the call of duty. Dr. Thomas is especially grateful to Mr. A. P. Singh in this regard, as well as Mr.
Subramanian. who escorted the mission in its Bombay plant visits, Mr Suresh, who did the same in
Baroda, and Mr. Gwalani in Bangalore. Last, but not least, Wing Commander Prabhakar organised a
memorable visit to the beautiful facility of which he is principal at NTTF Electronics Center, Banga-
lore.
1.5     A list of persons met is given as Attachment 1.



Annex A
24
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PREMISES
2.1      The Electronics Industry Development Project (EIDP) was approved for lending by the
Bank's Board on June 15, 1989, and three loans totalling US$210 million equivalent became effective
on September 14, 1989. The EIDP was cofinanced by grants to the Government of India (GOI) respec-
tively of SFr25 million (US$16.2 million equivalent at appraisal) from the Swiss Agency for Develop-
ment Cooperation (SDC), and of Yen364.5 million (US$3.0 million equivalent at appraisal) under the
Japan Grant Facility (JGF). The project comprised three main components in four parts, namely:
('a)  a credit line component comprising two loans of US$101 million each to ICICI (Part A of the
Project), and IDBI (Part B) to support investment sub-projects in the electronics and software
industries;
Ib)  a manpower component (Part C) financed by a loan of US$8 million to GOI by the Bank and
the Swiss grant of SFr25 million; and
(c) a technical assistance component (Part D) financed by the Japan Grant of Yen364.5 million.
The Project had an expected Completion Date of June 30, 1995, and all the loans had expected Clos-
ing Dates of December 31, 1995. In the event, Parts A and B of the Project were terminated early in
April, 1993 after collapse of the Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS) under which subloans
were made (see later), while the Loan Closing Date associated with Parts C and D of the project was
extended to March 31, 1997.
2.2     The rationale for the project lay in the fundamental assessment of the Bank that India
had the potential to develop a competitive electronics industry. This assessment in turn was based on
sector work that had been carried out by the Bank and reported on in 1987.1 Essentially, this judgment
was based on India's large pool of scientific and technical manpower, its growing and potentially vast
do,mestic markets, and its significant existing industrial base. Equally important, India had embarked on
a program of policy reform which initially went further in electronics than for most other industries,
and which offered a promising basis on which to support investment in the subsector, and to support a
program of intervention designed to strengthen the supply response. Key objectives were:
(a)  to improve the ability of the main Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) in their ability to
appraise and finance projects in the subsector;
(b)  to improve yet further the quality of medium and high level technical and professional man-
power needed for the industry's rapid and efficient growth;
(c) to provide market intelligence and growth strategies in the key software segment; and
(d)  to provide an important basis for the dialogue between the Bank and GOI on industry policy as
a whole.
2.3     By and large, the foregoing rationale has been validated by events since 1987 when the
sector report was completed. Data made available to the mission by DOE (see Attachment 2) sug-
gests that the software segment has grown at an annual rate of over 50% over the 8-th Plan period
1992-97, up from 41% over the 7-th Plan period, 1985-90. The hardware segments, combined, have
nct performed as well, averaging annual growth over the 8-th Plan period of 17%, down from 34%
over the 7-th Plan period. The apparent slow-down notwithstanding, the rate of growth achieved in the
electronics sector is still far in excess of the growth rate for the economy as a whole, and for manufac-
turing as a whole. Export performance is even better, with export growth averaging 41% per annum
over the 8-th Plan period, unchanged from the 7-th Plan period. This is consistent with the judgement
made at the outset of the project that India had some core competitive advantage in the sector. Pol-
icy change, meanwhile, has fairly uniformly been in the direction of reducing levels of protection
against import competition, thus applying pressure in the desired direction of achieving greater levels of
international competitiveness.
1.  See Report No. 6781-IN, India: Development of the Electronics Industry: A Sector Report, May 14, 1987.



25                                    Annex A
Ill. CREDIT LINE COMPONENT
Component Description
3.1     The credit line component, totalling US$202 million equivalent shared equally between
IDBI and ICICI. sought to provide term finance and permanent working capital support to viabie pro-
jects in electronics and related areas. It was linked to the technical assistance component (see later)
which provided support for these two institutions (the DFIs) in exposing appraisal staff to plants repre-
senting close to international best practice, in terms of technology and scale, in the U.S and elsewhere.
The line was pitched to medium and large scale projects, and it was anticipated that investments
totalling US$420 million would be mobilised. Subloans were to be made under the Exchange Risk
Administration Scheme (ERAS), which was a scheme set up for borrowers of foreign exchange, under
which such borrowers would have their loans rupee-tied. against an exchange risk premium charged
under the scheme by the Government of India (GOI), which in turn was to bear the exchange risk.
IDBI and ICICI were to charge a spread of 2% to cover costs and profit. Sub-borrowers had the option
of bearing the exchange risk themselves, in which case the cost of funds to them would be the Bank's
rate plus intermediary spread of 2%.
Main Findings
3.2     ERAS Scheme. The single most salient feature of this component was the collapse of
ERAS. Between 1989, when the loan was made effective, and 1991, the rupee depreciated 47%, caus-
ing the ERAS administrators to raise the ERAS premium to such a level that the ERAS rates quoted
to sub-borrowers rose to 26%. At that rate, though there were some takers, demand for the credit line
stalled. Subsequently, the rupee was made partially convertible, at which time sub-borrowers had no
incentive to avail of the line, as rupee resources could be raised at rates lower than the ERAS rate, and
converted to foreign currency. The alternative of assuming the exchange risk under the Bank's currency
pool system was not attractive to sub-borrowers, both because of lack of familiarity with this pool and
its risk characteristics, and because of the softness of the rupee at that time. Commitments and dis-
bursements under the line came to a halt. In 1992, after some attempt by the Bank, GOI and the
DFI's to restructure the line, no feasible market-based solution emerged,2 and the decision was made to
cancel the undisbursed balances.
3.3     Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI). Before cancellation
occurred, ICICI performed quite well, having made commitments for some 51 sub-projects, in a variety
of industry segments. As at the time of cancellation. total disbursements made to ICICI for subloans
amounted to US$50.3 million, the last of which was made in January 1993.
3.4     Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). IDBI's performance was somewhat
slower. By the time of cancellation, IDBI had made commitments and disbursements in respect of 36
subprojects, and disbursements had totalled US$21.3 million, the last of which was made in June,
1992.
Mission's Assessment
3.5     It is clear that credit demand in the sector remained high, and that but for the ERAS
problem, the line likely would have been fully committed within the time that had been foreseen. The
subprojects that had been identified for funding under the line were in any case carried out, as was
seen in some of the subprojects that the mission visited. For example, the Gujarat Narmada Electron-
ics Project, which had obtained subloan commitments under the line totalling US$30 million from IDBI
and ICICI combined, went forward as planned, albeit with a reduced utilization under the line of about
US$8.0 million. Alternative sources of funding were secured when the ERAS scheme collapsed. Another
plant visited by the mission, Namtech Electronic Devices, obtained and utilized ERAS funding at the
26% rate, but ultimately was able to prepay the subloan and refinance at a lower rate. The overall
2.  Subborrowers would likely have been willing to assume the exchange risk on single currency (dollar) subloans. at market
rates of interest, but the Bank at that time did not have the flexibility to convert its currency pool loan.



Annex A
26
assessment therefore seems compelling that the main objective was achieved of helping IDBI and ICICI
in identifying and appraising, then supporting viable electronics projects. At the same time, to the
extent there was in addition a resource mobilization objective, this was clearly not achieved. In the
event, IDBI and ICICI were apparently able to raise resources elsewhere in sufficient amounts to sustain
thie lending program that was projected.
Next Steps
3.6     The mission requested, but has not yet obtained from either institution, data pertaining
to the institutions' overall electronics sector portfolios, using 1989 as a base year, and covering the
intervening years up to the present. The data would cover the size and performance characteristics of
the portfolio, both in absolute terms, and in relation to the total loan portfolios of the institutions.
These data would permit a more precise assessment of the institutions' role in furthering the growth
and performance of the electronics sector as a whole. These data were promised to be delivered to the
Bank in Washington by end-May, 1997. They should also be copied to the Department of Economic
Affairs (DEA).3
3.7     Additionally, there were some gaps in the data given to the mission in respect solely of
the subprojects supported under the Bank's credit line. These data also were promised to be sent to
Washington by end-May, 1997, with a copy, as before, to the DEA.
3.8     Finally, the mission invited the two institutions to prepare their own Completion
Reports in respect of this line, for inclusion in the Bank's ICR. Guidelines to support this activity were
given to the institutions. The mission promised to have a draft ICR ready for review and comment by
the institutions by about June 20, 1997. The institutions agreed to send their comments alongwith
their contributions to the report by end-June, 1997. The DEA would again appreciate receiving a copy.
IV. MANPOWER COMPONENT
Component Description
4.1     The manpower component -  Part C of the Project -  was known in India as Project
IMPACT.4 This was conceived as a project to be implemented on a pilot scale with the objective of
improving the quality of the workforce of the electronics and computer software industry by improving
the skills of engineers and technicians already employed, and of students being trained in engineering
colleges and polytechnics, and by strengthening the linkages between training institutes and industry.
Accordingly, Project IMPACT comprised the following activities:
(a) conducting state-of-the-art seminars for upgrading the background knowledge of in-service engi-
neers and technicians;
(b) conducting continuing engineering education program (CEEP) courses for in-service engineers
and technicians;
(c) conducting instructional enhancement programs (IEP) for in-service teachers in 14 selected
regional engineering colleges and 12 selected Polytechnic Institutes. all 26 of which together
were called participating institutions (PIs);
(d) preparation of learning materials (LMs) by leading experts in the various subject areas to sup-
port IEPs, and to serve as skeleton, up-to-date course materials that could be used as best-
practice models that could be adopted nation-wide;
3.  Per the request later made by Mr. Rohit Modi, Deputy Secretary, DEA.
4.  An acronym which stands for Industry-oriented ManPower with Appropriate Competence and Training.



Annex A
27
(e) the preparation of model curricula:
(f) the upgrading and modernization of teaching facilities, including equipment, furniture, buildings,
and books and journals for libraries; and
(g)  conducting industry attachment programs (lAPs) for engineering and technician students.
4.2     In addition to the 26 Pls, the institutional framework which supported Project IMPACT
included Resource Centers (RCs), which provided the staff that prepared the LMs and conducted the
IEPs. The RCs which supported the project comprised Indian Institutes of Technology (IlTs) located at
Bombay and Delhi, along with Jadavpur University, Calcutta, the Indian Institute of Science (llSc)
Centre for Electronics Design and Technology (CEDT) at Bangalore, and the NTTF Electronics Center
(NEC) also at Bangalore. The project included as well six relatively new CEDTs which provide CEEP
courses to practicing engineers and technicians, and which obtained support for improving their labora-
tory and related facilities.
Main Findings
4.3     Though with some delay, Project IMPACT has in the end been well and successfully
implemented. There was, however, one sub-component which was abandoned, namely the state-of-the-
art seminar program, when at the mid-term review it was decided that the effort necessary to mount
these seminars was not worth the benefit.
4.4     Views of Pis and Students. At the level of the Pis, there is considerable satisfaction
with what has been achieved by them under the project. Likewise, students who have benefited from
improved facilities provided under the project, have been uniformly laudatory and grateful for the
changes which the project has made possible, specifically in terms of access to and the quality of books
and equipment made available to them, and in terms of the usefulness of the industry exposure gained
under the industry attachment programs (lAPs). The IEPs may be judged a success also. Teachers
have found the courses mounted by the RCs to be useful and relevant, and many have returned to take
additional courses. There was no dissent from this positive view that was expressed to the mission. The
LMs prepared by the RCs have only yet in few cases reached the target groups of teachers and stu-
dents. Those that have were said to vary in quality, and, regardless of quality, students who are moti-
vated more by a desire for certification than a desire for knowledge at this stage, find that some of the
LMs not (yet, at least) included in current syllabi are less than useful to the extent that they diverge
from current syllabi, which many do, by design. Many teachers have similar reservations, especially in
non-autonomous Pis which do not have the freedom to set their own curricula and syllabi. Suggested
modified course curricula have been prepared, and are currently being reviewed by the All-India Council
for Technical Education (AICTE), with a view to possible adoption and promulgation.
4.5     Views of Industry. Industry has also voted by their actions overwhelmingly in favor of
the initiatives adopted under Project IMPACT. Campus interviews conducted by hiring firms have
clearly favored participatng schools, and the hiring rate for fresh graduates have increased markedly for
Pis. Industry has however had a less enthusiastic response to the IAP. While most firms when
approached have been forthcoming in agreeing to participate in the IAP, they have also expressed the
view that an eight-week IAP is not of long enough duration for a trainee/student to solve real prob-
lems. A suggestion that has repeatedly been made by industry is that the IAP be extended to a mini-
mum of six months to enable meaningful projects to be worked on by the students, with the possibility
of meaningful, discrete outputs being produced at the end. In such a case, the firms visited have uni-
formly indicated a willingness to pay the students for the period of the IAP. This option would neces-
sitate of course a longer overall course duration before the student graduates. While some students
object to that, the mission found in talking to a group of students at Osmania University, Hyderabad,
that a slight majority would in fact prefer a longer, paid IAP, even if it meant extending the course
duration from four to five years. Some college officials expressed skepticism whether industry would or
could respond in sufficient numbers to absorb all the students that would be seeking IAP placements if
such a scheme were to be adopted. Others suggested that a middle ground may be possible, wherein



Annex A
28
student projects could be carried out largely on campus, while however addressing problems identified
within industry, with teachers and professors taking a more active role in identifying such projects.
4.6     Views of PIU and RCs. Understandably, the PIU and RCs are generally quite proud of
what they have been able to accomplish. Project IMPACT has garnered much publicity in electronics
and software circles within the country, and there is a clamor among non-Pis, also understandably, to
be included in the project. At the same time, there is an awareness within the PIU and among the RCs
of the implementation delays and difficulties that bedevilled what is an institutionally complex project,
and likewise a concern that the gains that have been achieved not be frittered away by lack of follow-
up. Thus, the enthusiasm evinced elsewhere is tempered among the staff of the PIU and of the RCs by
concerns similar to that of the Bank. Retrospectively, the question is what could have been done bet-
ter, with the benefit of hindsight, and prospectively the question is, what next?
4.7     As to the retrospective question, there appears to be a consensus view that the imple-
mentation delays were due, among other reasons, to delays in producing the Detailed Project Report
(DPR) needed to secure the needed allocation within the Government Budget, and related delays in
staffing the PIU, followed thereafter by the latter's lack of familiarity with World Bank procurement
procedures, and by the even greater lack of familiarity of the Pls with such procedures. A consensus
appears also to have emerged that it was only after the ZOPPS workshop held in 1994, which helped in
bringing about a clear understanding of the project among the Pls, that the involvement of the Pls
became active and committed. There is also a clear sense that the ZOPP workshop was instrumental
in building enthusiasm for the project among all the participants. an enthusiasm that was present
throughout all the meetings held for the mission.
4.8     As to the question of what next, the staff of the PIU and the RCs are seized of the
issue, and there is a determination that the gains of the pilot project should not be frittered away.
Hcowever, there is not yet a clear consensus on what should best be attempted within an environment
characterized best by constraints, both budgetary and otherwise. For the moment, there is reliance on
a follow-up project promised by SDC (see later). DOE and the PIU also feel that the Bank's role was
important to the formulation and ultimate success of the effort and wished to place on record its desire
for further help from the Bank in the follow-up activities that are necessary.
4.9     Views of the Cofinancier. The views of the cofinancier, SDC, are very much in accord
with the views expressed by the PIU and the RCs. With SDC too there is determination that the gains
of the present, pilot project not be wasted due to lack of follow-up, and there is an apprehension that,
failing such follow-up, there is a good chance that that is what would happen. Accordingly, the SDC
have indicated its commitment to continued financial support of Project IMPACT. This commitment is
made easier by the fact that, owing in large part to rupee depreciation, the SDC grant has been under-
spent to the tune of approximately SFr7.5 million.6 The SDC follow-up effort is currently focused on
three initiatives, namely:
(a) a Sustainability Support Scheme (SSS) under which present Pls would be assisted in strength-
ening revenue-generating activities, principally CEEP, consultancy, and maintenance services;
(b) a project for networking Pls, intended to facilitate the sharing of resources and experiences; and
(c) follow-through activity intended to ensure that LMs prepared under Project IMPACT are pub-
lished and thereafter widely disseminated.
5.  A German acronym for Goal Oriented Project Planning.
6.  The balance on the account as of date is actually SFr14.8 million. However, some further draw-down of SFr 7.3 million in
respect of expenditures incurred before the Closing Date is expected, and the account is being kept open informally
beyond the formal Closing Date to accommodate such draw-down.



Annex A
29
The Mission's Assessment
4.10     The Restrospective Question. As to the retrospective question, the mission accepts
the consensus view that Project IMPACT, in the end, has been well and successfully implemented.
Bank supervision could have included, early on, a Project Launch workshop with objectives similar to
that of the ZOPP workshop which was later mounted, and which was well received by all participants
for the clarity that it lent to project definition, and to a framework for project monitoring. Such Pro-
ject Launch workshops are now standard practice by the Bank for institutionally complex projects and
project components such as the present one.
4.11     The mission considered the question whether Project IMPACT could better have been
implemented by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), under whose administrative
authority the Pis nominally fall. Despite the potential for conflict in the institutional arrangements
adopted, between the DOE and the MHRD, it would appear that the more focused attention that the
DOE was able to give to the effort than would have been possible with the MHRD, was important to
the success of the effort. Nor does it appear that the MHRD is resentful of the DOE's intervention;
rather it is welcoming of it, given its own resource limitations. Ultimately, the DOE, in this sort of
intervention into the educational sphere, may be viewed merely as a benefactor with resources, exper-
tise, and a vested interest, in exactly the same way that private companies occasionally endow a pro-
fessorial chair or finance the construction of a university laboratory, etc., in areas where they have an
interest, altruistic or otherwise.
4.12     What next?. The prospective, "what next?", question is more problematic. The
mission is of the view that, while there is a clear determination that the gains made to date not be
lost, the core issues that need to be addressed in any follow-up activity is that a scale-up project may
be implemented to meet the increasing need of high-quality, industry-relevant education. While DOE
has made plans to sustain the gains of the present project, it has, as yet, not considered formulating a
scale-up project.
4.13     That the present project was "pilot-scale" in fact as well as in name cannot seriously
be doubted, having regard to the overall size and demands of the electronics industry, and having
regard also to the numbers of engineering colleges and polytechnics which are producing graduates and
diploma-holders in the electronics and computer fields. As compared with 14 engineering colleges and
12 polytechnics which participated in the pilot, there are about 450 engineering colleges and 1,000
polytechnics in India, about 40% of which now offer courses in electronics. The 50% per annum
growth rate which India has been enjoying in the software segment, together with 17% growth in the
electronics manufacturing segments, argue for an impending manpower crunch, one where issues of
quality will likely emerge before issues of quantity availability. Indeed, notwithstanding productivity
gains in these segments, there are already indications that India may already be starting to scrape the
bottom of the barrel in terms at least of the quality of software manpower - a concern expressed
(para. 5.3) by the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM). Therefore,
issues of scale-up, from pilot scale, to larger scale, must explicitly be addressed, in addition to the
issue of merely sustaining the gains made in the present group of Pls.
4.14     This observaton, in turn, suggests that the lessons to be drawn from the present pilot-
scale operation should at least in part focus on issues of replicability. The completion of the pilot
should carry with it an exercise to evaluate the design choices made during the pilot, to see to what
extent they should be replicated on scale-up. To what extent, given the lessons learnt from the pilot,
would resource allocations have been different? Where could more money have been spent, and where
less? For example, a wave soldering machine acquired under the project had not yet been used, for lack
of raw materials, and because exhaust fixtures would first need to be installed as a safety precaution
before it could be used. Without prejudging the issue, it may be possible that in a scale-up exercise in
a resource-constrained environment, the ratio of computers and other equipment to students might
optimally be somewhat less generous than made available under the pilot project. This issue must in
any case be explicitly addressed as part of the evaluation of the pilot exercise, as would be done in any



Annex A
30
engineering design project where the purpose of the pilot-scale design precisely is to optimise on design
parameters and conversion input-output ratios prior to scale-up. The same should be done here.
4.15      Having said that, it is necessary to add th3t there is no expectation that in the scale-
up exercise that there should necessarily or optimally be an attempt to include all candidate engineer-
ing colleges or polytechics. Reducing all institutions to a lowest common denominator in terms of
resource availability is unlikely to be an optimal solution. Rather, perhaps even more so than money,
the resource likely to be limiting is RC manpower for upgrading teacher quality through IEPs. There-
fore, an optimal follow-up strategy bearing this constraint in mind might involve adding as many
new Pls as could comfortably be serviced by the existing RCs, supplemented by the partial use of pre-
sent Pis, to serve now as RCs for additional Pls in a follow-up activity. This has to some extent been
happening already, as some Pis have been responding to requests from other engineering colleges and
polytechnics in their locality to share some of the fruit of Project IMPACT. As a first follow-up, it does
not seem infeasible to aim for an approximate doubling of the number of Pls. Thereafter, a "diffusion"
process that is better than arithmetic progression but not quite geometric - perhaps roughly following
a Fibonacci series7 - in terms of the successive addition of new Pis may well be achievable, with
roughly a three-year gestation lag from stage to stage.
4.16      All of the foregoing is not to take away from the need, in addition, to consolidate the
gains made by the existing Pls. In this effort, the focus of the Self-Sustaining Scheme (SSS) (para.
4.9) currently proposed for support by SDC is well placed on the effort to enhance the revenue-raising
capability of the Pls, while not sacrificing the character of the Pls as educational institutions. In this
re-gard, CEEP course offerings can serve the dual purpose of raising revenue for the institutions which
offer them, as well as contributing to the broader objective of raising the skill levels of in-service engi-
neers and technicians. Additionally, Pis should be encouraged to provide consultancy and other ser-
vices to industry, again to a degree that does not vitiate the core teaching mission of the Pis, as here
too there is a synergistic benefit to better cooperation between industry and educational institutions.
Also, the Pls are being encouraged to set up Self-Maintenance Cells, which would undertake the activi-
ties of maintaining the equipment with which they have been provided, teaching students useful skills
in the process, and raising revenue by providing this service to business and industry. Finally, since stu-
dents are the immediate beneficiary of improved schooling, with a fairly rich stream of lifetime benefits
that flow upon graduation, GOI may wish to consider establishing and supporting schemes for student
loan financing coupled with a significant increase in student fees charged.
4.17      Summary of Mission's Recommendations. The mission's recommendations with
respect to follow-up activity may be summarized as follows:
(a) treat the present project as the pilot-scale exercise as it was in fact, and as it was characterized
in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and use the experience to plan for scale-up, not
alone consolidation;
(b) evaluate the present pilot not only from the viewpoint of effectiveness, on which basis it is
clearly a success, but also from the viewpoint of conversion efficiencies (optimality of input-
output ratios);
(c) work out a scale-up exercise that respects the limiting constraint of RC staff and present PI
staff that may now also function as RC staff for new Pis, and that also respects likely financial
constraints; and
7.   0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, etc., where (except at the beginning) each term is the sum of the preceding two. The Fibonacci
series occurs quite often in nature, as growth processes seem often to follow its pattern. If the RCs have in some sense
managed to "duplicate" themselves among some of the present PIs (O and 1 yielding 1, making possible 1 and 1 next, to
yield 2 at the next stage, etc.) then to that extent the size of the constraining resource should now be double what it was
in the pilot. And so on.



Annex A
31
(d)  additional to encouraging fund-raising by Pis through CEEP courses, and services to industry,
consider increasing student fees, and funding the same through a student loan program. The
design and implementation of such a scheme could well provide the basis for a future Bank-
assisted project which the Bank's management may want to consider, should GOI be agreeable.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Component Description
5.1     The technical assistance component provided for:
(a) a software development study (US$0.9 million);
(b) a seminar program for Government and industry (US$0.7 million); and
(c) training and technical assistance for IDBI and ICICI (US$1.4 million).
The total of US$3.0 million equivalent, of which US$1.8 million had been disbursed as at close, was
provided in the form of Japan Grant, and administered by the World Bank.
Main Findings
5.2     Software Study. The software development study was completed in 1992. The study
and its impact was described in wholly positive terms, as an "eye-opener", and as "the single event
that transformed the industry", in that it indicated how the Indian software industry could best posi-
tion itself in the global market. It reportedly helped focus the attention of politicians and bureaucrats
on the potential of the industry to contribute to India's export earnings, so much so that it is still
referred to by them as a "recent study," even though it is now five years old. While GOI did not
implement all of the recommendations of the study, for example the recommendation to establish a
Software Development Board, it turns out that this has not constituted a lack. The National Associa-
tion of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) has emerged as a focal point for addressing
issues related to the software industry, and GOI has relied on NASSCOM's recommendations to a large
degree in addressing the problems, constraints, and prospects of the industry.
5.3     In the event, the performance of the Indian software industry has exceeded the projec-
tions made in the study report, for example, the study had predicted that in the absence of any partic-
ular interventions or positioning, India could expect to earn about US$660 million in exports in the fis-.
cal year 1996/97, as against which India's software exports have exceeded US$1.0 billion. From a mar-
ket share of 11.2% in the base year of 1992 in the area of custom software, India's market share in this
area has grown to 16.7% at present. In the area of package software, India's market share was a minis-
cule 0.01% in 1992, and remains a miniscule 0.04% at present, albeit with a four-fold increase. Cur-
rent plans are to achieve a 22% market share in custom software by 2002, and to achieve a 3% market
share in package software by the same year. Among the key issues which concern software manufactur-
ers in this regard are infrastructure constraints, particularly in the area of telecommunications services,
internet access and the bandwidth thereof, and significantly, an emerging manpower (quality) con-
straint.
5.4     Seminar Program. The seminar program for Government and industry was less suc-
cessful, and was discontinued after only one or two seminars had been mounted. As with the state-of-
the-art seminars under the manpower component, the effort involved in mounting these seminars was
judged not to be worth the benefit.
5.5     Technical Assistance for IDBI and ICICI. IDBI and ICICI received funds intended to
improve the awareness of international best-practice in various electronics segments by appraisal staff in
the institutions. Study tours to the U.S and elsewhere were organized by Dataquest Inc., a company
awarded a contract for the purpose. IDBI sent a group of 15 executives, ICICI a group of 17. The



Annex A
32
general assessment of the institutions was that this was a useful program that achieved the goal that
was sought, although not necessarily with a tight coupling between what was learnt on the study tour,
and what was immediately applicable to projects in the appraisal pipeline that were subsequently
attended to. One participant indicated that it was not until about three or four years after the exercise
that his experience overseas became directly useful to a (telecommunications) project that he then
helped to appraise. Additionally, although staff turnover has affected the extent to which the organiza-
tions have retained the benefit of this overseas exposure, the assessment of both organizations remains
thiat this was a useful exercise. IDBI in particular indicated that it sends 15-20 staff on similar training
programs each year, and the perceived usefulness of the present exercise may have contributed to the
willingness to devote resources to such activity.
MVission's Assessment
5.6     The performance under this component was clearly mixed. The software study was
both timely and useful. The technical assistance provided to IDBI and ICICI for overseas tours was use-
ful, but no tight coupling between the usefulness of this activity and subsequent appraisal activity by
the staff so exposed could be discerned. This however could hardly have been expected. And finally, the
state-of-the-art seminars, while in principle attractive as a means of exposing relevant Government and
industry personnel to what is happening internationally in respect of technology trends that might
imipact on India's competitiveness and positioning, the sheer laboriousness of organizing these seminars
wais not adequately anticipated.
5.7     DEA expressed some dismay that so much of the grant (US$1.2 million) under this
component went unutilized. The mission could only agree that some restructuring should have been
possible that would have obviated that result.
VI. NEXT STEPS FOR THE ICR
6.1     The next steps for producing the ICR are as follows:
(a)  IDBI and ICICI to complete their data submission in respect of the credit line component by
end-May, 1997 (paras. 3.6, 3.7);
(b)  the mission to complete the first draft of the ICR by about June 20, 1997 (para. 3.8);
(c)  DOE, SDC, IDBI, and ICICI to send their comment on the first draft by about July 15, 1997.
IDBI and ICICI at the same time to send their contributions for inclusion into the ICR. SDC to
confirm that their views have been adequately addressed; and
(d)  the mission would kindly request that the DOE also revise its contribution to the ICR to take
into account the comments and recommendations made in this aide-memoire in paragraphs
4.10-4.15 and summarized in paragraph 4.16 above.
Sidney Thomas
June 4, 1997
Delhi and Washington, DC
(revised August 26. 1997
to reflect Borrower comment)



Annex A
33
Attachment i/p. 1 of 3
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Government of India, Department of Electronics
Mr. Shyamal Ghosh, Secretary
Dr. S. C. Mehta, Senior Director
Dr. P. N. Gupta, Director
Mr. V. B. Taneja, Director
Mr. A. N. Sharma
Mr. Altaf Khan
Government of India, Department of Economic Affairs
Mr. V. Govindarajan, Additional Secretary
Mr. Rohit Modi, Deputy Secretary
Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC)
Mr. Kurt Vogele, Head -Asia Section (Berne)
Mr. Hansjurg Ambuhl, Coordinator India Programme (Berne)
Mr. H. R. Pfeiffer, First Secretary (Development) (Delhi)
Ms. Rena Tagore
Prof. Jaya Indiresan, Consultant (Delhi)
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
Mr. P. V. Narasimhan, Executive Director
Mr. J. John, Deputy General Manager
Mr. Anupam Srivastava, Deputy General Manager
Mr. S. G. Gulati, Chief General Manager
Mr. V. Venkateswariu, Chief General Manager
Mrs. S. Rao, General Manager
Ms Mythili Ravi, Asst. General Manager
Mr. S. Sridhar, Asst. General Manager
Mr. G. V. Nageswara Rao, Deputy General Manager
Mr. Naresh J. Gwalani, Asst. Manager
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
Mr. S. H. Bhojani, Executive Director
Mr. Suresh Vishwanath, Vice President
Mr. A. P. Singh, Vice President
Ms. Shalini Shah. General Manager
Dr. P. H. Vaidya, General Manager
Mr. N. P. Subramanian, Deputy Manager
Mr. P. Suresh, Asst. Manager, Baroda
Mr. Mangesh Kelkar
Resource Centers
Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
Prof. S. S. S. P. Rao
Prof. G. Sivakumar
Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi
Prof. D. Nagchoudhuri, Head, Dept. of Electrical Engineering
Dr. G. S. Visweswaran, Assoc. Professor
Mr. N. K. Jain, Chief Design Engineer
NTTF Electronics Training Center, Bangalore
Wing Commander B. C. Prabhakar, Principal



Annex A
34                      Attachment 1/p. 2 of 3
Mr. V. N. Vaidyanathan. Deputy Manager - Training
Indian Institute of Science. Bangalore
Centre for Electronics Design and Technology,
Prof. H. S. Jamadagni,
Prof. N. J. Rao
Engineering Colleges
Mr. D. B. Goswami, A.E.I, Assam
Prof. S. Biswas, Bengal Engg. College. Calcutta
Dr. Sakuntala S. Pillai, College of Engineering, Trivandrum
Dr. (Mrs.) K. S. Jog, Govt. College of Engineering, Pune
Prof. K. K. Tripathi, HBTI, Kanpur
Prof. J. S. Shah, LD Engg. College, Ahmedabad
MREC, Jaipur
Prof. S. C. Agarwal
Mr. R. P. Yadav
MS Univ. of Baroda
Vice Chancellor,
Prof. Dipak Kumar De, Pro Vice Chancellor,
Prof. B. S. Parekh,
Prof. G. S. Shah,
Osmania College of Engineering, Hyderabad
Prof. V. Ramakistayya, Vice-Chancellor
Prof. R. V. B. Chary, Head, Dept. of ECE
Prof. V. M. Pandharipande, Dept. of Electronics
Prof. K. V. Chalapati Rao, Dept. of Computer Science
Mr. L. C. Siva Reddy, Reader, Dept. of Computer Science
PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore
Mr. S. Palanichamy
Mr. A. Kandaswamy
Regional Engg. College, Kurukshetra
Dr. Shakti Kumar
Prof. Anurag
Mr. S. R. Philar, Regional Engineering College, Surathkal, Karnataka
Rourkela Engineering College
Mr. H. Parhi
Mr. G. S. Rath
SGSITS, Indore
Dr. P. C. Sharma, Director
Dr. P. K. Chande
Dr. Prakash D. Vyavahare, Reader, Dept. of Electronics Engg.
Polytechnic Institutes
Gov't Polytechnic Kalamassery, Kerala
Mr. C. V. George, Principal
Mr. V. A. Shamsudeen
Mr. J. P. Choudhury, Gov't Polytechnic, Nilokheri
Mr. Jagjit Singh, Mehr Chand Polytechnic, Jalandhar
MEI Polytechnic, Bangalore
Mr. N. K. Ramdas, Consulting Engineer and Hon. Sec'y
Mr. T. Narayana Swamy, Principal
Mr. P. R. Sridharan, Murugappa Polytechnic, Madras
Shri B. A. Chidre, S.B.M Polytechnic, Mumbai



Annex A
35                    Attachment I/p. 3 of 3
Mr. Y. i. Shah, Dean, Shri Bhagubai Mafatlal Polytechnic, Mumbai
Thapar Institute, Patiala
Prof. G. K. Sharma, Head, Dept. of Computer Science
Dr. Surekha Bhanot
Dr. M. Jayakumar
Mr. Kailash Chander
Dr. P. K. Bansal
Mr. Jagpal Singh
Shri Vaishnav Polytechnic, Indore
Mr. M. K. Dube, Principal and Secretary
Mr. L. K. Jain, Head Electronics Dept.
Shri P. K. Chakrabarti, Women's Polytechnic Institute, Calcutta
Centres for Electronics Design and Technology
Mr. B. A. Damahe, Senior Design Engineer. CEDT Aurangabad
Dr. Madhu Mangal, Director, CEDT Calicut
Prof. A. K. Ogra, Director, CEDT Gorakhpur
Plant Visits
BPL Limited
Mr. K. R. Vinod Krishnan, Director
Mr. K. Srinath, Asst. General Manager - Corporate Finance
Mr. P. Haridasan, Manager Finance
Mr. T. N. Shashidhar, Accounts Executive
Namtech Electronic Devices, Ltd.
Mr. K. P. P. Nambiar, Chairman and CEO
Mr. B. S. Venugopalan, Executive Director
Mr. Jacob John, General Manager - Finance
Mr. T. V. D. Nair, Sr. Production Executive
Narmada Electronics, Ltd.
Capt.B. Bates, VSM, IN (Rtd.), Chief Executive
Dr. G. K. Pathak, General Manager
Mr. A. K. Modani, Asst. General Manager
Mr. Sunil Bhatia, Officer (Administration)
NELCO
Mr. D. J. Fernandes, Executve Director
Mr. K. A. Mahashur, Executve Director
Mr. G. H. Chawla, Chief Operations Executive
Mr. R. L. Panjwani, Senior Manager
Mr. Ashok Mitra, General Manager Finance
Mr. J. Shankar, Corporate Treasurer, Wipro Limited
Industry Associations and Other
Mr. K. M. Kini, Behram Wadia & Associates
Mr. Shrikant Sarpotdar, General Manager, Kalyani Sharp India Ltd
Mr. S. Srinivas, Kamal Elektronix, Bangalore
Mr. Dewang Mehta, Executive Director, National Association of Software and
Service Companies (NASSCOM)
Mr. Sanjay Goel, Tata Consultancy Services
Mr. V. N. Dhoot, Managing Director, Videocon International



m
I-
m
Table 1.1                                               q
-I
Production Performance of Electronics Industry During VI, VII and Vil Plans              0
z
Production          Growth (%0)
(Rs. Crores)     Annual    i Cumulative        z 2
Sixth Plan                     1980-81             767            12.0                        O
0
1981-82             930           20.9                          4
1982-83            1287           38.3            25o%
1983-84            15o0            16.6                        mO
1984-85           2081            38.7                         (A
._________                      m
Seventh Plan                   1985-86            2880            38.4                         m
1986-87            3855           33.9                         m
1987-88            5285            37.1           34%o        _
1988-89            7030            31.0                         z
1989-90            9010           28.2                         n
Annual Plans                   1990-91            9540             5.9                         0
1991-92            1067            11.9                         c
-n
Eighth Plan                    1992-93           12850            20.4                        -o
m
1993-94           15235            18.6                         m 
1994-95           18060            18.5           22%           0
1995-96           21675           20.0
1996-97           28410-           31.1                         n
m          x
' Anticipated                                                                                        0



Annex A
37                  Attachment 2/p. 2 of 4
Table 1.2
Cumulative Growth Rates Achieved by Different Sectors During VIl and Vill Plan
Sector                  VII Plan (1985-90            VIII Plan (1992-97)
Cum. Growth Rate (C) Cum. Growth Rate (%,')
Achieved             Targetted        Anticipated
Electronics Hardware
1.  Consumer E!ectronics                 33.6                 22.4              15.1
2.  Industnal Electronics                30.8                 24.5               14.1
3.  Computer System                       55.0                30.6               25.8
4.  Communications and                   34.4                 23.0               19.9
Broadcast Equipment
5.  Strategic Electronics                 24.0                28.4               11.8
6.  Components                           37.4                 32.0               17.2
Sub-Total, Hardware                  34.0           |    26.8       |       17.4
7.  Software for Exports                 40.8                 47.0               54.0
8.  Domestic Software         I                               47.0               52.0
Electronics, Total                   34.1           |    27.7               22.0
Table 1.6
Export Performance of Electronics Industry
Electronics               Growth (%,)       |
Plan                               Year           Export            Annual   j  Cumulative
Seventh Plan                    1989-90             865               66.3         41%
Annual Plans                    1990-91             910                5.2
1991-92            1133              24.5
Eighth Plan                     1992-93            1454               28.3
1993-94            2128              46.4
1994-95            3032              42.5         41 %"a
1995-96            4585              51.2
1996-97            6287'             37.1



Am nex A
38                  Attachment 2/p. 3 of 4
.Sunmary of the Budget 1997-98 for Electronics Sector.
GENERAL:
1.   Peak rate of customs duty reduced from 50% to 40%.
2.   Customs  duty on capital goods and project imports  reduced
from 25% to 20%.
3.   Customs duty on 36 items of capital goods- for manufacture of
semiconductor devices continues at I02.
4.   Customs duty on tools, moulds and dies continues at 25%.
5.   Customs duty on chemicals,  in general, reduced from 40% to
30%.
6.   Customs duty on drawings and designs abolished.
7.   Customs duty on computer software abolished.
8.   Customs duty on populated PCB rationalised at 20% level.
9.   Custorms  duty  on  Integrated Circuits  and  Microassemblies
reduced from 20% to 10%.
10. A new scheme of Excise for small scale exemption introduced
with  effect from 1.4.97.   The salient features of the  new
scheme are as follows:
i)   The  existing limit of duty free clearance upto Rs.  30
lakhs and the overall eligibility limit of Rs. 3 crores
have been retained.
ii) Clearances in the range of Rs. 30 to 50 lakhs will be
liable  to  a  flat rate of duty  @  3%  advalorem  and
clearances  in  the range of Rs. 50 to 100  lakhs" will
-   attract a flat rate of duty i 5% advalorem.  Clearances
beyond Rs. 100 lakhs will have to discharge full duty
liability.
iii) A manufacturer availing the full exemption upto Rs. 30
lakhs  and  concessional rate of  duty  for  clearances
between  Rs.  30 lakhs and Rs. 100 lakhs  will  not  be
eligible to avail credit of duty paid on inputs under
rule  57A.   However, he will be  eligible  for  modvat
credit on crossing the limit of Rs. 100 lakhs when he
starts paying duty on the specified goods at the normal
rate.
11.  Excise duty in general, reduced by 2%.
12. M.AT removed for exporters under 30 IIHC of IT Act.



Annex A
39                  Attachment 2/p. 4 of 4
13. Corporate tax reduced from 43% to 35%.
14. TDS on dividends abolished.
15. Tax holiday to enterprises providing Telecom Services (Basic
or Cellular) under Section 80-IA and Amortisation of Telecom
Licence fee under Section 35 ABB of the IT Act allowed.
16. A service Tax e 5% which was applicable to the following:
a)  Radio paging services
b)   Courier services
c)   Advertisewent service etc.
will now apply to the following also:
a)   Transporters of goods by road
b)   Consulting engineers
c)   Customs house agents
d)   Steamer agents
e)   Air travel agents
f)   Clearing and forwarding agents
g)   Outdoor caterers
h)   Pandal contractors and mandap keepers
i)   Man-power recruitment agenices/consultants, and
j)   Tour operators including car rentals
The tax will be leviable on the gross amount charged by the
service renderer from the clients. Details of modifications under
customs notification are given in the Annexure-IV.






Annex B
bo Pi-j. sP- PC
Tzwf~   f4m
liFIt                               F;fN~~~~~~~~~~~"V~Tf f7T , 6, #SUt.t3ft. 4
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 ,                      Z< rf-110003
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
717 'o                                           DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS
TW7  II, if                                      ELECTRONICS NIKETAN. 6, CGO COMPLEX.
SHYAMAL GHOSH                                            NEW DELHI  110003
SECRETARY                                           TEL. :436404 . FAX : (011) 4363134
July 31, 1997
Dear Mr. Nicholas,
This  refers  to  your  letter  of  June  20,  1997  enclosing
a  copy  of  the  draft  Implementation  Completion  Report  (ICR).
We  have  gone  through  the  report.    We  appreciate  the  deep
insight  and  clear  thinking  of  Mr.  Sidney  Thomas  in  preparing
the  ICR.   Overall,  the  report  is highly analytical  and objec-
tive.   The recommendations  and the lessons  learnt will  provide
useful  direction  for  our  future  initiatives.   The  report  also
has  been  supportive  of  the  Project  Implementation  Unit  and
they are encouraged by the positive comments.
2.     We  agree  with  the  broad  contents  of  the  report.    In
respect of the grading, we note that the borrower's performance
has  been  grated  as  "satisfactory".    It  seems  that  the  rating
'satisfactory' and not 'very satisfactory' is because of averag-
ing the ratings of all the components.   You may like to consider
rating  the  three  components  separately  just  as  assessment  of
different  components  has  been  done  separately  in  the  Aide
Memoire.
3.     A  few  other  modifications  have  also  b&en  suggested  in
the  attached  note  which  you  may  like  to  incorporate.    These
are mainly of editorial nature or due to small gaps in informa-
tion.
4.     As  recommended  in  the  ICR,  we  would  be  examining  the
feasibilty  of implementing  a scale-up project.   When finalised,
we may be asking for World Bank assistance.
5.     We  place  on  record  our  deep  sense  of' appreciation  to
the  World  Bank  and  the  SOC  for  the  support  provided  to  the
project.   A number of World Bank officials have rendered expert
advice and administrative assistance during project implementa-
tion.    In particular,  we  acknowledge  the  cooperation  extended
by  Ms  Hadjitarkhani,  Mr  Nagi  Hanna,  Mr  Bredie,  Mr  Virdi,  Mr
Cecil  Perera,  Mr  Schware,  Mr  Shirazi,  Mr  Sidney  Thomas  and
yourself.    We  also  drew  on  the  support  of Prof  SK Srivastava
and Mr Subramanyam of New Delhi office.
With best regards,
Yours  incerely,
(Shyamal Ghosh)
Mr.Peter Nicholas,
Acting Chief,Country Operations,
South Asia Region,
The Wor d BanR,
1818 H.Street N.W.
WASHINGTON DC020433
USA



Annex B
<1                          42
Implementation Completion Report
INDIA
Electronics Industry Development Project
Manpower Development Component
(L No. EIDP/3093)
May, 1997
L                                                    I



Annex B
43
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Electronics Industry Development Project (LN3093-IN)
Manpower Development Component
1. Introduction
1.1 Project IMPACT (EIDP: Manpower Component) is a pilot project for the development of
manpower with appropriate competence and skills as needed by the electronics and
computer industry. It is aimed at improving the quality of Engineering and Polvtechnic
education using an integrated approach of laboratory modemisation, teacher competence
upgradation; up-to-date Learning Material and improved industry interaction.
1.2 The project is jointly supported by the Govemment of India, grant-in-aid from Govt. of
Switzerland through SDC and a credit from World Bank.
1.3 The Government of India entered into an agreement with the World Bank on July 7, 1989
for a loan of US$ 210 million for EIDP. Out of this, the manpower component of EIDP
was US$8 million. A grant in aid of S.Fr. 25 million from the Government of Switzerland
was also extended to the manpower component as per an agreement with the Government
of Switzerland in March, 1991. The Government of India contribution amounted to Rs.
40 million towards civil infrastructure and about Rs. 100 million towards duties & taxes.
1.4 The EIDP proposal was appraised by the Bank in May 1989 and the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) recommended an IDA credit of US$ 8 million, US$ 16.2 million grants
from SDC and US$ 2.6 million from GOI. The project commenced implementation
through Department of Electronics (DoE) in June. 1991.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1 The component would assist. on a pilot scale, in improving the quality of the work
force of the electronics and computer software industry by improving the pre-service
training at selected Engineering Colleges and the Polytechnics. It also aimed to improve
the skills and knowledge of the in-service engineers and technicians by supporting
Continuing Engineering Education Programmes (CEEP) and by conducting State-of-the-
art Seminars. The linkages between the training institutes and industry were also to be
strengthened.
2.2 It would build on previous efforts of DOE to establish Centres for Electronics Design
and Technology (CEDTs) and to raise the standards of employee training and the quality
of engineering education in the country.
2.3 The component will assist in:
2.3.1 Improving the quality of practicing engineers and technicians by (i) conducting
state-of-the-art seminars for middle and higher level technical employees of small and
medium scale industries and (ii) by supporting Continuing Engineering Education
Implementation Completion Report



Annex B
44
Programs at the RCs. selected PIs and at the Centres for Electronics Design and
Technology (CEDTs).
2.3.2 Improving the quality of pre-service training at selected ECs and Polys through
the development of up-to-date learning materials in areas such as product design,
computer science etc. where such materials are lacking; modernizing teaching facilities
and equipment; and providing training for the teachers.
2.3.3 Strengthening the links between industrv and Participating Institutes through
Industrial Attachment for students and through part-time teachers from industry.
3. Implementation Experience & Results
3.1 Achievements of Objectives
The following project activities were identified in order to meet the above objectives. The
progress in each of the activities is given below:-
3.1.1 SoA seminar:
Three State-of-the-art Seminars were organised at 10 Centres. About 310 people
paLrticipated in these seminars. Additionally, one training programme was conducted using
trarismission via satellite. This programme was received simultaneously at 9 centres and was
attended by over 180 participants.
Further programmes were, however, dropped based on recommendations of the mid-
term review mission.
3.1.2 Continuing Engineering Education Programme:
This activity was started in 1994 at five Resource Centres, three Engineering Colleges
and three Polytechnics. During the mid-term-review, CEEP was identified as a key activity for
revenue generation by the PIs. This activity was strengthened and two process guidance
workshops were organised for the PIs to help them to conduct market driven CEEP
programmes. Three experience sharing workshops were also conducted. All the institutions
were invited to these workshops. As a result, in addition to the 11 institutions (SRCs + 6PIs)
which were supported under CEEP, 4 other PIs have started CEEP at their institutes for
resource generation. As against the target of conducting 23000 man-l$"of training under
CE-EP, about 25000 rian-QWbf training were conducted during the year 1996-97. Most PIs
have also prepared a schedule for the next year and have announced their programmes.
All the PIs have plans to use the CEEP activity as a source of revenue generation for
sustenance, making them as self-supporting for fulure SSS project.
3.:1.3 Learning Material Development:
The original DPR had provided for the development of Learning Material for 49
courses. During implementation, it became necessary to revise the list, deleting a few courses
and adding some new courses. In the revised list, 58 Learning Materials (16 for electronics &
Imlplemenmation Completion Report



Annex B
45
15 for computer for UG programme and 27 for the polytechnics) were identified. Later, during
January 1996, it was decided to print 48 Learning Materials within the project period. This
required all the LMs to be reviewed, revised and DTP to be done.
As of now, development of 56 Learning Materials have been completed. The experts
have also reviewed these LMs. Out of these. 38 LMs have been revised and 35 have been
printed for wider dissemination to the PIs and non-PIs.
Even though the distribution of LMs could not be completed as targeted, the faculty of
PIs have used the LMs given to them during Instruction Enhancement Programmes for their
teaching. Some PIs have also included additional topics in their curriculum based on the LMs
that were provided to them. The distribution of LMs is going to further increase their usage by
the institutions.
Based on the LMs developed under the project. the SDC is planning to support a
project for development, revision and wider dissemination of Learning Materials.
3.1.4 Staff Training
3.1.4.1 Instruction Enhancement Programme (IEP):
Under the project, 57 Instruction Enhancement Programs have been conducted for the
facultv of the Participating Institutions. These programs have been found very useful and
the faculty participation has been good. Over 700 faculty members have been trained in
these programs. Besides direct benefits in terms of improved subject expertise and better
teaching, the PIs have also benefited in the following ways:
(i) The PI faculty is more confident in handling the subject matter as well as the labs.
The use of computers has increased significantly, especially in the Polytechnics.
(ii) The PIs have improved the organisation of their labs and have started new
experiments. The Course Files and lab handouts are prepared by many institutions. The
Student Projects are carried out iri a more systematic way and project briefs are prepared
by some institutions.
(iii) The use of teaching aids has increased significantly.
(iv) PIs also used this opportunity to solve their problems related to equipment
installation and usage. Use of networking and Email has also increased because of this.
3.1.4.2 Support Staff Training Programmes:
With a view to facilitate the PIs in setting up their self maintenance cell 26 programmes
were conducted on the maintenance of equipment and computers procured under the
Project. Over 350 Support Staff were trained in the areas of Computer and equipment
maintenance. Another 25 training programs were on the use of advanced Software,
library, stores management, PCB design and fabrication etc. Over 350 Support Staff were
trained through these programs.
Implementation Completion Report



46                                    Annex B
3.1.5 Modernisation of facilities
State-of-the-art electronic equipment, computers and software amounting to nearly Rs.
450 million have been provided to the PIs. Some of these funds were released directly to the
PIs to enable them to upgrade their computers.
PIs have also been provided grants towards development of infrastructure for
improving laboratory facilities, library facilities, developing model classroom, establishment
of self-maintenance cells and procurement components and consumables.
3.1.6 Industry Attachment Programmes (IAP)
Originally, it was envisaged to conduct the Industry Attachment Programme only for
the students of the Engineering Colleges.  The Colleges were advised to take up the
programme in a systematic way so as to build up industrial linkages with local industries to
ensure an effective industry academic interaction.
Based on the success of Industry Attachment Programme (IAP) at the Engineering
Colleges, the mnid-term-review mission recommended extending the Industry Attachment to
selected Polytechnics.  Three student batches of the Engineering College students have
unclergone the Industry Attachment Programme and one batch pf the Polytechnic students took
industrial training during their vacations. During the last year. over 1400 students from the
Engineering Colleges were trained at over 500 industries. The training was coordinated by
about 580 industry guides and about 250 faculty members of the PIs.
The total number of students who have undergone Industry Attachment so far is about
4575 from 14 engineering colleges & 500 from Polytechnics.
All institutions intend to continue IAP beyond the Project IMPACT duration. Many
institutions have included in their curricula as well as in their academic calendar. The
duration of the IAPs has been usually eight weeks except for one or two institutions who had
to reduce it because of difficulties in finding an adequate slot in their timetable. Most
institutions mentioned improved relationship with the industries and better student projects as
major benefits.
The inclusion of Industry Attachment in the regular curricula of the Engineering Colleaes and
Polytechnics has also been recommended in the model curriculum prepared for the three
streams. This would ensure the sustainability of IA, once the revised curriculum is adopted.
3.1.7 Development of model curricula:
Three committees had been set up for development of model curricula for the (i)
electronics and (ii) computers for undergraduate programme and electronics and
communication streams for polytechnics. The development of all the 3 model curricula have
been completed and copies have been sent to each of the PIs participating in the project,
Directorate of Technical Education of each of the states and AICTE for adoption.
Implementation Completion Report



47                                   Annex B
3.1.8 Establishment of self-maintenance cells (SMCs):
The concept of having a self-maintenance cell at the institution seems to have
flourished because of IMPACT. Even though the concept of self-maintenance cell was there
right from the start of the project. very few institutions paid attention to this activity till the
mnid-term review. After the MTR. a lot of attention to this was paid by the PIU and all Pls
have now taken concrete steps to set up their SMCs.
Out of 14 Engineering Colleges, only 2 colleges had Self- Maintenance Cells before
Impact Project, the remaining Colleges have established SMCs under Impact Project. Ten
Colleges have permanent staff-members as SMC incharge while the remaining 4 have
temporary Incharges. Some PIs have also taken necessary steps to request for additional
manpower for this purpose.
3.1.9 Improvement in Learning Environment at the PIs
Most PIs have improved the learning environment at their institutions. The
improvements are given in detail in a separate report prepared by the IMPACT Monitoring
Group. These are summarised below: -
3.1.9.1 Library:
Most Colleges have been able to set up departmental library. Over 20000 books
have been procured by the Participating Institutions for use in their departmental
librarv. Most PIs allow access to this library during the college hours and allow the
students to get the books issued. Some PIs have computerised the operation of this
library and have set up video viewing facilities in their departmental library.
3.1.9.2 Laboratorv
The laboratory facilities at all PIs have improved substantidily as a result of
IMPACT. Most PIs have been able to manage additional space from their institute for
setting up these laboratories, without using funds from the Project. All PIs have
iznproved their lab furniture, wiring, lighting, storage of equipment etc. The improved
labs have substantially reduced the batch size per experiment thus giving better hands
on experience to each student. This is most visible for the computer labs where the
students use the computers individually rather than in-group. The labs are now kept
open during holidays and for longer hours by about 3-7 hours extra as compared to
before IMPACT.
New lab experiments have been introduced based on the equipment and software
received under the Project as well as based on the LMs and IEPs. The lab staff and the
faculty are more confident to handle the equipment and the software procured under
the Project which is resulted in better handling of laboratories.
The labs have significantly helped in improving the practical contents of the
teaching at the institutions. The new facilities have a direct impact on the quality of
experiments and the student projects.
3.1.9.3 Class room
Most PIs have set up a model classroom with improved furniture and facilities
like the Glass Board, Projection system, Slide projector etc. at their institution. The use
Implementation Completion Report



Annex B
48
of OHPs for regular teaching has increased significantlv at the Participating
Institutions. The Projection System is generally used for demonstrations, guest lectures
and for student seminar and project presentations. Many PIs are now inviting experts
for Guest Lectures.
3.1.9.4 Students Project
The student project is an important part of Engineering education. Generally it is
done during the final year of the curriculum and about 50 % of the students take up
industry specified projects. This also exposes students to other aspects of their future
work like teamwork, planning, documentation and presentation. In this context, it is an
important indicator of the learning environment at the institutions.
IMPACT has brought about a major change in the industrial orientation of the
Projects. This has happened primarily because of the improved institute-industry
interaction. The methodology followed in the project implementation has improved at
many inslitutions. Some PIs are preparing project briefs and are doing systematic
monitoring. The improvement of facilities also had direct effect on the type and scope
of student project. Some PIs also increased the project duration to two semesters.
The quality of student projects, its reporting and presentation has improved
significantly. The use of computers for simulation, drafting and learning has increased
significantly.
3.1.10 Participating Institutions performance:
Performance of the participating institutions has been monitored closely through a
structured monitoring system. Performance indicators and their means of the verification were
w.orked out in joint workshops with all the PIs at a time when the project inputs started
reaching the PIs. The Status Report format was modified suitably and several forms were
evolved for proper collection of data.
Initially, the PIs were expected to submit quarterly reports. which was analysed by the
NMonitoring group and the RCs. The feedback on the status reports was also presented to the
PIs during the Monitoring Workshops. Based on the feedback of the PIs. the frequency of
submission of Status reports was reduced to six months. Besides this. the RC coordinators and
the PIU coordinators visited the PIs regularly and submitted their visit reports, which were
anialysed by the monitoring group. In order to present all this information in a concise manner,
the performance of the PIs was plotted in terms of the RADAR charts for all the PIs. The
Radar charts for the Engineering Colleges were plotted with 12 performance indicators and
with 8 performance indicators for the Polytechnics, who do not have Student Project as a
major activity. The innovative use RADAR charts, which provide a bird's eye-view of the PIs
performance on all activities, was appreciated by the review missions and the funding
agencies. A separate report gives the details of these charts and the performance of the PIs.
These Charts have been presented to the PIs during the Monitoring Workshops and PIs
have been asked to take corrective actions, wherever necessary.
While there could be differences in the extent of utilisation of project inputs and in
terms of best outputs achieved as a result of the project, the acceptance of the PI students by
the Industry has increased for all PIs.
Implementation Completion Report



Annex B
49
In order to assess the marketability of the PI students. the campus recruitment information
was requested for all the PIs for the last five years. 24 PIs were able to provide the data.
For the purpose of assessing the benefits of IMPACT, the campus recruitment figures for
the years 1992 and 1996 were compared. As against the placement of 39 % students in 1992.
71 % students got placement during the campus recruitment.
Since acceptance by industry is a clear indicator of the success of the project, it is clear
that the benefits of the project have reached the students who are the ultimate beneficiaries of
IMPACT. The assessment of benefits to the industry will require a tracer study, which is
likely to be conducted later by the Swiss Development Cooperation.
There is only one visible case of IERT Allahabad who has failed to come up to level of
other successful PIs.
3.2 Costs:
The Original Project outlay as per the Staff Appraisal Report was US$ 26.8 million to be
funded by W.B. Loan (US $ 8.0 million); SDC grant (SFR 25.0 million equivalent to US$
16.2 million) and Govt. of India's contribution of Rs 40 million.
While some final payments for goods and services provided till 31.3.97 are still being
processed both at the PIU as well as at some of the Participating Institutions, it is expected
that the total expenditure would be approximately Rs. 829 million. out of which the
Government of India's contribution is Rs. 126 million (including Taxes and duties of Rs 86
million). The Govt. of India Contribution and the World Bank loan has been utilized in full,
the SDC commitment has been used to the extent of US$ 13.15 million (SFR 17.5 million).
The project costs, project financing and reimbursement details are given in Tables 8A,
8B, 8C.
3.3 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The overall project design was complex with several layers of institutions namely: (i) the
RCs, (ii) the ECCs, (iii) the ECEs. (iv) the Polys , the CEDTs and eight major schemes.
The effort and the time required to complete the development of learning material was
grossly under estimated. Also it was wrongly assumed that the faculty, who are experts in the
subject matter, would have all the skills to take up development of LM. The contribution by
industry experts also adid not come in adequate measure.
As a result, the development of Learning material took much longer than estimated. At the end
of the project, all the LMs as envisaged in the original SAR have been completed and copies
of the same have been given to the faculty of the Pls during their participation in the IEPs.
Printing of Learning Material and its widespread dissemination to the students of the PIs
and selected non-PIs were suggested during the mid-term review. It was decided to get all the
LMs reviewed and revised before printing. As of now 35 LMs, out of the targeted 48, have been
printed and are ready for dispatch to the institutions.
Implementation Completion Report



50                                 Annex B
Procurement of Equipment. Software, Components. Books and the Furniture by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was a stupendous task which, sometimes, constrained PIU's
attention towards other activities. The shortage of staff with requisite skills at PIU was another
limiting Factor. At the PI level, the main bottlenecks in varvina degrees at different PIs were:
(i) rigid rules and procedures,
(ii) shortage of teaching and support staff,
(iii) lack of autonomy to the Principal and
(iv) no administrative control of DoE on the PIs.
Despite the above drawbacks, the overall performance of the project has been impressive. The
main factors were:
(i) comprehensive project design.
(ii) planning and close monitoring,
(iii) advice & support from World Bank and SDC &
(iv) well-coordinated team effort by the PIU, RCs and the SDC
3.4 Performance of the Bank and the borrower:
The performance of the World Bank, the SDC and the PIU was highly satisfactory.
The World Bank was always prompt in examining the proposals submitted by the PIU. The
expert advice given by the World Bank in procurement matters and their cooperation in this
regard was notable. The Swiss Development Cooperation and the World Bank. both played
crucial role in close monitoring of the project as a result of which the project objectives were
achieved. In the second half of the project, SDC was involved more closely in the project
implementation and monitoring, which was verv effective. SDC have also agreed to extend
their support in the SSS to ensure sustainability of the project gains.
But for the initial delay in the start-up of the project. the borrower's performance was highly
satisfactory with respect to project implementation.
3.5 Assessment of Project outcome:
The project inputs have been well received at the PIs. The PIs have also ensured that
the facilities created under the project are made available to the students for extended hours.
The Industry Attachment Programme was well received by the students and most PIs will
continue the programme even after the end of the project in March 1997. The students
appreciated the improved Laboratories, library and welcomed the improved access to the
laboratories.
The faculty and staff have also participated well in the project and have fully utilised
the IEPs and the maintenance training programs conducted under the project and gave useful
suggestions to improve the same. The faculty also participated in the implementation of the
project at their institutions.
Implementation Completion Report



Annex B
51
The students of the PIs have also been well received by the industries. both during the
Industrv Attachment and during the campus recruitment. The campus recruitment of students
has improved from 39% in the year 1992 to 71% in the year 1996.
The overall outcome of project is highlv satisfactory. The project has achieved its major
objective of improving the qualitv of formal training in selected ECs and PTs and to upgrade
the competence of professionals and technicians in the industry.
4. Sustainability of project & Future operations:
Efforts have been made to ensure sustainability of the project activities beyond the
project period. Many PIs have set up Self-Maintenance Cells to ensure the availability of
working equipment in their labs. PIs are also taking up revenue generation activities to ensure
that funds are available for procurement of Consumables, upgradation of equipment and repair
of specialised eqtipment.
A lot of effort and resources have been put in the development of Learning Material. The
dissemination of the LMs to the PIs and the non-PIs will be done only on a limited scale under
the project. Availability of good LMs is a continuing requirement of the students and the
faculty of all educational institutions. SDC is evaluating the proposals received from different
organisations for a sustainable project for development. updation, printing and marketing of
Learning Material. With this project, the LMs developed under the project would be
sustained.
Three Model Curriculums have been developed under the project. These have been
submitted to different agencies for their approval. Once the PIs and the non-PIs implement the
model curriculum. the project benefits would be disseminated, in a sustainable way, to a large
number of Institutions.
A Sustainability Support Scheme (SSS), jointly supported by the SDC and the
Government of India. is also being finalised to ensure that the gains of the project do not
wither away. In this scheme, all the PIs have to work out their financial requirements for the
next five years. The PIs also have to plan their revenue generation so as to be self-sufficient at
the end of five years. The yearly funds requirement will be released to the PIs on a tapering
basis.
Department of Electronics has also identified Manpower Development as one of its focus
areas and will be supporting more projects in this area in the ninth plan i.e. between the years
1997 - 2002. The experience gained in the project, the methodologies and the monitoring
procedures will be extensively used in other projects.
Implementation Completion Report



TABLE 8A (Project Costs)
Appraisal Estimates          RDPR Estimates              Actual I Latest Estimates
Local Foreign               Local Foreign               Local Foreign
Costs  Costs  Total         Costs   Costs  Total        Costs  Costs  Total
Civil Works         2.61           2.61          1.24           1.24        1.24           1.24
Equipments          4.50    6.53  11.03          5.97    6.53  12.50        5.76    6.64  12.40
Furiniture          1.00           1.00          0.85           0.85        0.85           0.85
Books/Journals      0.88           0.88          1.01           1.01        1.01           1.01
,>4    Local Training     2.87           2.87          1.51           1.51         1.33          1.33
Local Spec.         4.07          4.07           3.01           3.01        2.75           2.75
Foreign Sp.                 0.77   0.77                  0.08   0.08                0.08   0.08
Maintenance         0.76           0.76          1.47           1.47        1.23           1.23
Consumable          2.83           2.83          1.56           1.56        1.50           1.50
TOTAL              19.52    7.30  26.82         16.62    6.61  23.23       15.67    6.72  22.39
All Figures in US$ Million



TABLE 8B - PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimates           Actual Estimates
Local  Foreign                  Local   Foreign
Costs   Costs   Total           Costs    Costs    Total
IBRDIIDA          1.47    6.53    8.00            1.36     6.64      8.00
Co financing
Institutions      15.43   0.77    16.20           13.07    0.08     13.15
(SDC)                           SFR 25M
Other external
Source             -       -       -                -        -        -
Domestic
Contribution      2.60     -      2.60            1.24               1.24
Total             19.50   7.30   26.80            15.67    6.72     22.39



x
TABLE 8C - REIMBURSEMENTS
FY 90  FY 91  FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97 Anticipated
Appraisal Estimate      4.55   14.58   18.04   21.20   24.20   24.20   24.20   24.20   24.20
Actual                                 0.70    3.28    8.24   10.90   16.03   17.43   2450    S
Actual in Rs                          21.10  101.73  260.90  350.70  558.82  610.09  702.60
Actuals as % of
Estimate                0.00    0.00    3.88   15.47   34.05   45.04   66.24   72.02   88.84
All Figures in US$ Million



Annex C
INDUSTRIAL CREDITAND INVESTMENT
CORPORA TION OF INDIA LIMITED
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3094-IN)



56                        Annex C
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED
1. ICICI  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD
2. IDE31  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA LTD
3. GOI  GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
4. ERAS EXCHANGE RISK ADMINISTERED SCHEME



57                             Annex C
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND KEY LESSONS
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
The objective of the project was to assist the borrower to foster a competitive electronics
industry. The project consists of the following parts-:
Part A: ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY EXPANSION AND UPGRADING (ICICI)
Financing of investment projects through sub- loans to Investment enterprises.
Part B: ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY EXPANSION AND UPGRADING (IDBI)
Financing of investment projects through sub- loans to Investment enterprises.
Part C: MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Upgrading training capabilities of technical institutions/colleges
Part D: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Study and seminar to assist development of Indian software industry.
Seminars and related study for improving investment growth and efficiency  in
electronics industry.
Upgradation of skills of ICICI and IDBI to identify ,appraise and implement electronics
projects
To achieve its objectives , the project assisted two financial institutions namely ICICI and
IDBI through the electronics industry development project line to the extent of US $ 101
million each (Part A & B) , a loan to the GOI to the extent of US $ 8 million (Part C) and a
grant to GOI of Yen 181.5 million to be passed on to both ICICI & IDBI equally (Part D).



58                             Annex C
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
The! ioan was approved on June 15th, 1989 and became effective from September 14th
1989.The closing date was December 31st,1995.The loan was utilised to the extent of
US $ 50.17 million and the balance was cancelled .The loan was initially aimed at Indian
cornpanies for providing finance for project imports. Subsequently with the squeeze in
foreign exchange availability the loan was offered for import of components as well.
The main elements of the loan were as under:
1. Single window financing of fixed assets and working capital for eligible sub projects in
ellectronics manufacturing and related areas .
2. Financing of technical assistance , seminars and training.
The then concept of industrial financing comprised two components namely financing of
fixecl costs and financing of working capital. The sub borrower had to deal with financial
institutions for financing of capital costs and with banks for working capital. With the
rapici pace of industrialisation and the market turning competitive certain deficiencies
were present in the system putting the borrowers under difficulties.
Some of the difficulties experienced were
1. In the appraisal of projects working capital estimates were finalised on the
assumptions of normal build up of inventories and margin money for the initial years
were provided accordingly. But in actual practise ,banks were providing assistance
baseid on their own norms leaving a gap between actual need and the availability of
working capital funds.
2. There were also variations in the build up of inventories due to certain factors not
envisaged such as "Bunching" of imported raw materials (minimum order size especially
in the electronics industry where components were either small in size or fragile and
normally imported in bulk/container loads), new units experiencing initial teething
problems with new technologies leading to significant inventory levels and also due to
the time taken in market development efforts being more than that anticipated at the
appraisal stage.



59                             Annex C
The success of the line is evident from the fact that most of the reputed Indian
companies in the industry have availed of the loan during the years 1990 & 1991 for
both project imports and components import. There was good response from sub
borrowers and several capital investments were conceived during this period.
Subsequently, the government of India introduced partial convertibility in the fiscal
budget in 1992 allowing payments in rupees for import of capital goods which created a
demand for rupee funds which was more attractive than foreign currency.
ICICI's experience with its sub borrowers has been generally satisfactory . A few sub
borrowers in the small sector however could not absorb the effects of devaluation of the
rupee and the liberalisation in imports.
PROJECT RESULTS
The project's objectives were well conceived and have been successfully achieved,
despite changes in the macroeconomic environment that were difficult to predict at the
time of preparation of appraisal. The term lending component led to substantial
investment in Indian electronics industry. ICICI was also able to improve its appraisal
techniques and provide assistance for both project imports as well as component
imports. Eventhough, the line was originally for project imports, later on with the approval
of the World Bank, the line was also utilised for component imports due to peculiar
working capital needs of the industry, thereby introducing single window concept for
finance of capital goods and components.
During the period 1992 to 1997, there has been considerable reduction in import duty as
well as domestic duty in line with the Government's liberalisation policy which has led to
severe competition in the industry. The sharp change in exchange rates during this
period resulted in the loan becoming expensive as the line was covered under ERAS. It
may be observed that most of the assistance was for creation of fixed assets and around
50 % of the loans were over US $ 2 million each.Most of the loan utilisation was upto
1992 at U S $ 50.17 million and the remaining had to be cancelled.
KEY LESSONS
The project provided important lessons for Electronics industry.
- The Electronics industry that had been sheltered by a regulated economy, needs time
and assistance to adjust to the Government's liberalisation policy.
- Regular dialogue during project supervision between bank staff and the borrower
contributed to timely resolution of problems.
- Eventhough, the loan was originally for project imports, it was realised that assistance
was required for working capital and with the approval of the World Bank, the line was
also utilised for component imports.



60                             Annex C
lcICI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND:
The IBRD 3094 Line included a TA component ,of US$ 0.5 million to be utilised for
providing technical assistance to ICICI personnel in the product areas which are likely to
be introduced in the country. The aide-memoire suggested products such as glass shell
for colour and black and white television picture tubes, microelectronics, surface-mount
devices, compact discs, advanced medical electronics, telecommunications and satellite
cornmunication. It was envisaged that the technical assistance could be by way of:
1.   Access to manufacturing technology/databases;
2.   Plant visits for assessing present technology levels;
3.   Training in assessing technology and understanding future trends, appraising of
projects and devising suitable financial products;
4.   Visits to international exhibitions; and
5.   Conducting seminars involving the industry as well as policy initiators in the
Government.
Based on the above broad guidelines a program was devised for participants from the
various offices of ICICI who primarily appraise projects in the electronic sector. Part one
of the program included seminars, workshops, plant visits within the country.
Discussions were held with industrialists, policy formulators and specialist groups to gain
an in-depth knowledge of the local electronics industry and the policy framework.
Speakers were invited from renowned companies, technical institutes and department of
elecitronics. Visits were organised to various component and equipment manufacturing
units. Part two of the program covered plant visits in Europe and the USA followed by
class room training at Dataquest Inc. at San Jose, California and plant visits in the Far
East and South-east Asian countries. The program included modules covering the
following areas in the electronic industry:
1.   Component sector - PCBs, glass shell, microelectronics, discrete devices;
2.   Consumer electronics - Television and audio/video equipment;
3.   Telecommunication - switching equipment and cellular telephone;
4.   Information technology - Software;
5.   Industrial electronics.



61                              Annex C
The team members were assigned each of the above sectors for in-depth study covering
technology trends, future outlook, manufacturing processes, financing patterns and
training needs for project evaluation and monitoring. The training provided in insight into
the diverse manufacturing practices followed in various parts of the world which were
largely influenced by the social, cultural and economic conditions prevalent in each of
the countries visited. The participants could appreciate the differences in the technology
adopted in the various units which were appropriate to the respective national situation.
Based on the experiences of the team gained during the program and considering the
core competencies of the electronic industry in India, thrust areas were identified. The
program also presented possible joint venture opportunities in the areas of computer
hardware, software and telecom sectors.
On completion of the program, a seminar was organised by ICICI wherein the team
members submitted their findings and recommendations to an audience comprising
industrialists, policy initiators in the Ministry of Finance and representatives of industry
associations. The seminars highlighted the various policy changes required in the
industry to make it efficient and globally competitive. Similar, presentations were also
made to infotech associations such as the NASSCOM and CSI at their respective annual
conventions. Since software was recognised by the team as one of the thrust areas, a
study was initiated by ICICI jointly with one of the software companies to ascertain the
feasibility of setting up a software training centre in the country for meeting the training
needs of the industry. The program also resulted in building a resource base of experts
within the country and outside who could be called upon for advice and expert opinion
on projects. It would be worthwhile to mention that most multinational companies visited
by the team have subsequently set up either a trading outfit or manufacturing base in the
country.



62                                Annex C
SUB PROJECT UTILISATION  TA
ICICI
IBRD ELECTRONICS LINE 3094-IN
CiEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB LOANS
NO OF SUB  AMOUNT $  .PERCENT
LOANS       MILLION  I
NORTHERN           |          13       11.511         22.94
NORTH-EASTERN |                0           0              0
CENTRAL                        0 _         0              0
WESTERN                       22       26.78          53.38
SOUTHERN                      14       11.751         23.42
EASTERN                        1        0.13           0.26
TOTAL                         51       50.17            100
NORTHERN-STATEs OF HARYANA,HIMACHAL PRADESHJ&K,PUNJAB,RAJASTHAN AND UNION TERRITORIES OF
DELHI & CHANDIGARH
NORTH-EASTERN-STATES OF ASSAM,MANIPUR,MEGHA LAYA,NAGALA ND, TRIPURA,ARANCHAI,MIZORAMAND SIKKIM
CEINTRAL-sTATEs OF MADHYAPRADESHAAND UTTAR PRADESH
WESTERN-sTATEs OF GUJARAT,MAHARASHTRA,AND GOA AND UNION 7ERRITORIES OF DADRA HAVELUAND
DAh1AN AND DIU.
SOUTHERN-sTATES OF ANDHRA PRADESH,KARNATAKA,TAMIL NADU AND KERALA & UNION TERRITORIES OF
LAKSHADWEEP AND PONDICHERRY
EASTERN-sTATEs OF BIHAR,ORISSA,AND WEST BENGAL AND UNION 7ERRITORIES OF ANDAMAN AND NICHO8AR
ISLANDS
N&ATURE OF PROJECTS
NO. OF  |AMOUNT $  PERCENT
SUBLOANS   MILLION  I
NEW                           131       11.87        23.66
EXPANSION                      6         6.41        12.78
EQUIPMENT  .                  211       13.64        27.19
DIVERSIFICATION                1         0.13         0.26
WORKING CAPITAL               10        18.12        36.12
TOTAL                         511       50.17          100
NU!MBER OF SUB LOANS          51  (Net of cancellations)



63                           Annex C
SIZE OF SUB LOANS
RANGE (S)           NO OF SUB I AMOUNT $  PERCENT
LOANS%'     MILLION
Above 2 million                9       25.02      49.88
Between 1 & 2 million         10       12.45      24.82
Less than 1 million           32        12.7       25.3
TOTAL              |          51       50.17        100
SECTORWISE SUBLOANS
SECTOR       NO. OF SUB PERCEN
_____                LOANS        T
Joint Sector      [          3        6
Private Sector              48       94
Public Sector     T          ol       0
Co-operatives                         0 0
SELECTED INDICATORS OF SUB LOAN ACHIEVEMENTS
MOUNT APPROVED(US$MILLION) -                 101
AMOUNT DISBURSED( US $ MILLION)            50.17
NUMBER OF LOANS                             565
NUMBER OF COMPANIES                          51
ADDITIONAL JOBS CREATED                    6,522
PRINCIPAL OUTSTANDING (US $ MILLION)    46.82 *
as on March 31,1997 based on valuation of a pool of currencies.



64                                                            Annex C
IBRD - Electronics Loan
=IB 3094 IN          (IN US $ MILLION)
= _SLNO                                          NAME                     YEAR    SANCTION   H/A SIGN   DISBURSED
I                 AlA.02         Gujarat Narmada Elec                  1990             15.000           15.000             0.659
2                 Bl.01          Punsunii India                         1989             1.475            1.475              2.287
1991            0.833             0.833
3                 Bl.02          Akasaka Electronics                    1989            0.263             0.199             0.248
0.064
4                 B1.03          Sri Katragada Elec.                    1989            0.319             0.319             0.319
5                 Bl.04          Oniida Savak                           1989            0.626             0.357             0.387
0.030            0.206              0.206
0.030
6                 B1.05          Indehein Communica.                    1989            0.665             0.655             0.658
7                 B1.06          Videoconi Internat.                   1989             1.779             1.122              1.280
. _________________  (IB-IFTA)                                                                0.657
8                 131.07         Gorawara Electr. 1                     1990            1.132             1.132              1.359
_____________________________ _ .0.227                                   0.227
9                 831.08         Gujarat Poly AVX-                      1990            0.167             0.167             0.167
10                 Bl.09         Rolta India                            1989             0.689            0.689              0.679
1 1  Bl.10    OEN Coiuiect. IFTA                     1990             0.421            0.421              0.455
0.034            0.034
12                 Bl.ll         Tata Keltron                           1990             0.147            0.147              0.127
13                 B1.12         Tata Hioneywell -1                     1990             1.421            1.421              1.421
14                 Bl.13         Wipro Inlform. Tech. L                 1990             1.149            1.149              1.035
15                Bl.14          Peico Electronics I                    1990             2.296            2.211              2.237
16                B1l.15         Tata Hosneywell 11                     1990             1.404            1.404              1.404
17                B1.16          Videocon Intl. 11                      1990             5.672            5.672              5.588
18                B1.17          Kalyani Sharp II                       1990             2.836            2.836              2.542
19                B1.18          Ariiaan Electtic                       1990             0.367            0.367              0.355
20                 B1.19         British PHY. Labs I                    1990             0.809            0.809              0.917
.____________         0.10S            0.108
21                 Bl.20         Tata Elxsi                             1990             4.221            4.221              3.602
22                 B1.21         Kalvaisi Sharp I                       1990             4.687            4.687              2.050
23                 B1.23         NELCO                                  1990             3.317            3.317              3.316
24                 B1.24         HCL Limited                            1990             3.403            3.403              3.403
25                81.25          BPL Systems                            1990             0.574            0.574              0.384
26                 B1.26         Wipro Itifo Tech. 11                   1990             0.748            0.567              0.614
0.181
27                 Bl.27         Fine Line Circ.-2630                   1990             0,667            0.667              0.667
28                 B1.29         ICICON Electronics                     1990             0.379            0.379              0.379
29                 B1.30         Tata Telecom                           1990             1.702            1 .174             1.722
0.020            0.528
_____________   _ _______________   ______________ _______________  _ _______ _   0.020
30                B13.31         Micropack Lto-IBJ90S                   1990             0.575            0.575              0.575
3 1                B1.32         Monica Elect.                          1991             L645             0.359              1.317
0.202
1013
32                 B1.35         Gorawara Elect. 11                     1990             0.567            0.548              0.287
33                 BI.36         Samtel Colonr                          1990             1.148            0.624              1.116
0.507
34                 BI.37         Stovec Indus. I                        1990             0.054            0.054              0.050
35                 B1.44         Stovec Indus. II (ASSOTE               1991             0.122            0.122              0.114
36                BW1.4          Precisioii Electronic                  1990             0.185            0. 185             0. 145
37                 B1.49         Electroiiic Equip.                     1991             0.205            0.113              0. 112
38                 Bl3.51        British Phy. Labs. 11                  1991             0.665            0.665              0.683
0.018            0.018
39                B13.52         Essen Deinki                           1991             0.156            0.156              0.146
40                 B1.54         Cocoon Conmectors                      1991             0.005            0.005              0.005
41                 B1.55         Guji Perstorp                          1991             0.448            0.387              0.414
0.027            0.027
42                 B1.56          Beat Cassettes                        1991             0.157            0.157              0.154
43                B.57          CNC Metal                                               0.258            0.258              0.257
44                 B1.59          Tata Unisys                           1991             0.328            0.328              0.281
45                 81.62         Allen Bradley                          1990             0.136            0.136              0.134
46                 B1.65         Namntech Electronic                    1991             0.413            0.413              0.380
47                 B1.69         Essen Coinnectors                      1991             0.426            0.402              0.444
0.042            0.042
48                81.70          Laxmi Elect.                           1991             0.931            0.931              0.843
49                 B1.72          Desai Electronics                     1991             0.297            0.297              0.315
0.018            0.018
50                 B1.75         Vimtex RF Prod.                        1991             0.140            0.131              0.129
51                13B.78         Wipro Systems                          1991             1.798             1.798             1.798
_ _________    . _______________   ___________________________       _____________         70.351          69.995             50.166
The actual aggregate amount sanctioned was higher at 83.378 Million USS



________________     INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
------           ~~IMPLEMENTATION DATA ON SUB PROJECTS _(AL.L FIGURES IN USD MILLION)
NO. NAME    LOCATION         NATURE                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT COST                          MEANS OF FINANCING
--OTHER    ---     PROMOTER- CASH-,..-
LOCAL    FOREIGN  TOTAL    lSOR          ICICI  __DEBT___EQUITY             CONTR.    ACCRUAL   TOTAL
T_ Videocon karm-ada          Guia             New Project           73.350    15.000    88,350      0.659    111.2110    31 .570     26.480       17.080      1.351      88.350
2 Gujrat Poly A_V'X Lid  --Ahmedabad __       e New' _P'ro_j e-c t  0.091     0.1167    0.258      0.167                             0.061       0,030       0.000       0.258
3    Viceocon I nt1e-rn-a tio n al   A ur a-n g-ab-a d-  Wo_-r ki n gC Ca p it-al      0. 0-00 _ _5.8_7_2 _ _5'.'672_    5-.5-8                            0.45_.6_ 7 2
4V_  Tate Keh1tron _          _PaIg-he_t_, K-erala -Working Capital   0.000     0.147-0.147           0.127 -0.020 -                                                       0.147
5    OEN Connectors  CochinEquipment                      0.253      0.455     0.708      0.455025                                                              0.0
.x14    6   ~~~~Tala Telecom           Gujrat           Working Capital       0.000      1.722      1.722     1.722                                                     0.000       1.722
7    Fi_ne Lin_e7rCiru'its    Mumbai           New Project           15.620     0.667    16.287       0.667     .4.310     3.170        4.070       4.070       0,000      16.267
8    MELCO        Nasik           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Working Captl 000_    .37       337        3360.001                                                              3.3`17
9-  Pieco Efectronis.     .Pune                Modernlsatlon          2.143      2.296     4.439      2.237 --         -    -       -0  2.143    -             0.059        4.439
10    kesaka Elecrnc      -  hn             Epnin                  066         .23      1.149      0.248                                                     0.901       1.149
11   Coco-on Connector's      Mum'b_al ___     E q ui-p-me n t__   _  0.000-o-  0.005      0.007     0.005                                          0.002      0,0         0.007
12   Rolla India Ltd          Thane            New Project.       .3.494        0.689      4.183     0.679                  1.400       1.054       1.050      0.000       4.183
13   Vid_e`oCo-n_lniearnational..Aurangabad    New Project            5.537      1.779     7.316      1 280 --0.537        1.340       2.050        2.109  ___0.000         7.316
14   Sto-vec Indus-tries- Ltad  Gujarat        Equipment              0M03      0.054      0.085     0.050                               _0.031                0.004       0.085
is   Assot-ex                 flasik           Equip'ment             000       0.1122     60.1       0.114                           ..0.058                              0.172
16   Punsumi India            Rajasthan        New                    3.609     2.308      5.917      2.287     0.650   i__              .500       1.480      0.000        5.917
1 OndSavek              Delh                      _______Eupen   .0        .656      0.856     0.593     __         __ __                __026085
186- Go0re;war_a E-lectr-onic-s    -Gh-aziebad  Working C ap ital     0.000      1.359   _1.359       1.359                                                    0.000        1.359
i_ H4CjLtd                   Delhii           Equipment              1.021     3.403      4.424      3.403                                                     1.021      4.424
20_ Moni_ca Elecetronics      Delhi            Equipment              0.498   _1.645   _2.143         1.317                                                     0.826       2.143
21   SamlelColour     Gh~~~~tz~azibad  Working Capital        0.000      1.148     1.148      1.116    ___    ___0.032                                              1.148
22   Pe_cisio _e'lectiron_ic  _  Delhi      Equipment __0.2                   0.5185    0.6247     0.1450.102                                                            0.24-7
23   D'sin'ki                 Chanidig'a_rt_h_  E x-pan-si'o- n       016 7     -0.1,5-6-  "__0_32_3    -0.1 4 6 . -.-----                                  ---- 0- 1,7,7  -0.,3-2 3
24 8ei dassettes                                                   6.eti0i1570.055                                                                                       0.209
25   CNC Metals       ~~~~~~Utter Pradesh  New                0.671      0.5       0.2        0.7        021                           __046000                     099
26   Essen Connectors         ia-ryana        Nw          ____       2.-90-9  -0.4-68 _ 3'.3_77      0-.444-    1220                   0._83_3   _0_.8_80      0.000       3.377
27    rmea an Elictiric~_  -~Chennal        Euip-ment              0.1        037       0.470      0.355.-0.123   ,0.478
28 Mropack                 Chennel_i __ Equipment               _0.173       0.575__0_.748 ___ 0.575                                                   ___  0.1173   __0.748
29   Lam Electronics          Coimbatore       Equipment              0.280      0.931     1.211      0.843                                                    0.368        1.2i1
30   Alien Bradley            Delhi            Equipment'             0.4       6.136      0.179     0.134                                                                    -7-9
31 Wpr Io.Tc.karinatake                     W orking- Caopital    ___ 000     1.149     149        1.05 -                           . ifo..                  011.   i4   iA149
32  lWipro Into. Tech.        Karnataka     -Equipment                0.222     0.748      0.970     0.614                                                     0.356       0.970
33   British Phy Lab         TBen_galo_re      Expansion               .5        .1         .6        .1        0.70        .5          .50__097                .6          .6
34   British Phy Lab  ~~~~Bangalore    Equipment              0.308      0.683     0.9        0.3030091
3 TaeElexsi              Bangalore        New                    1.7        4221    1527         3.602      1905,660 __415                                 000        1.9
36   8PL Systems      ~~~~~~Bangalore  Wor'king-C-ap-it-at,   0.000      0.574     0.574      0.3840.90.7
37_ Namltech6 Electronic__    - Ba n- g-a o re  _N e- w               3 . 8-3 4-  0.413    4.247      0.380      1.710                  0.854 ____1.303        0.000..4.247
387  VinIex RF Prod.          Bangalore        Diversification     _0.765        0.140     0.905     0.129                 0.310 ___                0.260   _0.206          0.905
39   Wipro Syste-m-s          Bangalore____Equipment  ___              .5-74A   1.798&    2.37~2      1.798                      ____               0.574      0.000        2.372
4-0  rI Ketragagde Electro   Hyderabad        Eqimn                   .96      0.31i9    -0.415      0.1                                                      0.9          0.415
41_ Tatea Honeywell           P-u-n  _____ Woriking Ca-pital          0.000      1.421     1.421      1.421               ___    ___                           0.000        1.421
42   Toat Honeywell           P-une            Equipment             0O.617,    1.404      2.021      1.404                                      -    -- ____ ________  0.617  Z__2836
43   Kelyani Sharp            Pune _____Expansion                    10.399     4.687    15.086      2.050      2.856 _____            3.770 ___3.773          2.6g37       5.8
44   K     lani Shr           Pune             Working capital-    -0. 0 00 "    2.8-36   -2. 836   -2-.54-2                       ____0.294  __2.021
4 5   Das  Electronics ___    Punse_____  Expansion                   0.49J     0.3is      0.806     0.1                __       ____          ___0.491                    080
46  ICICON elcetronics        Baroda           New _____7.201                   0.379      7.580     0.379      2.560      0.51         1.520.      2.270      0.000        7.580
47- Gulrat Perstorp           Guirst         -Now            =        8.175     0.475      8.650     0,414       1.820     2.091       2.165 __  2.166        06.000       8i.65
48   Tate Unisys       ___m_bal  _____   quipment                     0.114     0.328      0.442     0.281                       __             __             0.161       0.442
49  lndchern Communicati      Chennat          New ______             1.360      0.665     2.025      0.658     0.3481                 0.506 ___0.5`13          0.000       2.025
'g0   G-oraewar-a fFecr;nics  Giazitabia       Equmet0.170                       0.567     0.737      08                                                        .5           .3
SI Eectronic Equipments    Delhi           Equipment              0.068      0.205     0.273      0.112                                                     0.161       0273
i59.473    70.351   229.824     50.i66     29.901     41.082   -53.016        43.099    -12.560  -229.824
__ ___-The local cos_ts o.af allh.e ab_ov_e projects were donorminated in rupees . The same have been converted into US dollars for this report.____  . -    -






Annex D
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
TREASURY & FUNDING DIVISION
FOREX SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Electronics Industry Development Project - Loan No. 3095 IN
Borrower's Final Evaluation Report -
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.1   Backdrop of the Indian Economv
1.1.1 During the period of implementation of the Credit under review the Indian
economy went through a phase of macro-economic changes in a dynamic policy
environment. During the year following the commencement of this line in 1989,
the Indian economy was affected by fiscal imbalances that were accentuated by
the Gulf crisis and the resultant third oil shock. The reforms programme that
were initiated thereafter in 1991 involved macro-economic stabilisation along
with structural reforms in the industrial, trade and financial sectors. The growth
impulses unleashed by these reforms have led to a revival of a strong economy,
along with rapid expansion of productive employment, a surge in exports and a
decline in inflation.
1.1.2 The average growth of the economy at 6.5% during the Eighth Plan(1992-
97), based on advance estimates for 1996-97, is higher than the target of 5.6%.
This growth has been accompanied by a decline in current account deficits in



68                            Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
the balance of payments, increase in domestic savings and a reduction in
inflation rate. Fiscal deficit that had been 8.3% in 1990-91 has been brought
down progressively during the successive years with the figure at 5% for 1996-
97, as per the revised estimates. Imports and exports have both witnessed an
upsurge during the late eighties and the, nineties. The Indian economy has
demonstrated its resilience and buoyancy as a result of wide ranging economic
reforms and gradual integration with the world economy.
1.2  Industrial Scene
The process of delicensing and deregulation in Indian industry had begun
during the mid eighties, from a relatively protected environment earlier. Since
1991, however, the Indian industry has been witnessing changes in terms of the
basic parameters governing its structure and functioning. The major reforms
include wide-scale reduction in scope of industrial licensing, simplification of
procedures, reduction of areas hitherto reserved for public sector, enhancement
in the limits of foreign equity participation in domestic industrial undertakings,
rationalisation of taxes, liberalisation of trade and exchange rate policies, etc. All
the major segments of the industry have responded to economic reforms with
dyinamism with an acceleration in their respective growth rates. During 1991-96
the contribution of manufacturing sector to industrial growth has maintained an
upward trend, the share of mining sector has fluctuated and the power sector
exhibited a declining trend. During 1996-97, however, the rate of growth in
industry is expected to be lower than the previous year. This has been mainly
due to constraints of infrastructure besides a slowdown in investments, exports



69                             Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
and private I public consumption expenditure. However, the manufacturing
sector that contributes more than three-fourth of the industrial production has
been performing fairly well.
1.3  Electronic Industry
1.3.1 Indian electronic industry has grown significantly in the nineties, both in
terms of production as well as exports. Over the 8th plan period production
recorded an average annual growth of 22%, while exports grew by 41 % . The
share of exports in production has also been on the increase from about 13% in
1992-93 to above 28% in 1995-96. Structurally, electronics sector in India has
been dominated by consumer electronics segment with a relatively lower share
of industrial electronics. Growth in the Electronic Processing Zone (EPZ) has
however been remarkable. In the coming years computer and software industry
is expected to achieve quantum growth at an average growth rate of over 40%.
1.3.2 Government policies and duty structure during the nineties have aimed at
further liberalisation in the industry. Among the various measures, import-export
policy has been liberalised, import of technology freely permitted, foreign equity
permitted upto 100%, customs duty brought down progressively from 60-100% in
early nineties to about 10-40%, besides abolition of customs duty in specified
cases. The effect of these measures have been mixed. While the overall
production and installed capacities have grown significantly during the nineties,
a number of units have been affected by competition arising from reduction in
tariffs and other liberalisation measures.



70                             Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
1.4   Context of the World Bank Line of Credit:
The proposal for the Line was initiated in the changing environment in the
Indian economy characterised by competitive forces. In case of electronics
industry sub-sector in particular, the Government of India had initiated a number
of steps to foster its fast development. The series of policy reforms in the sub-
sector initiated in 1981, that led up to the Integrated Policy Measures in
Electronics in 1985, were intended to infuse competition. Physical and
administrative controls were sought to be replaced with fiscal measures and
competition to regulate market behaviour. These steps were initiated in
recognition of the importance of electronics industry, per se, besides its role in
improving productivity in manufacturing and other activities. The World Bank
decided to catalyse investment activity to foster a competitive electronics
inclustry by lending financial support through Development Financial Institutions
(DFis) viz., IDBI and ICICI. In particular, it was intended that the import financing
needs of the industry be met out of the line. The resource needs were assessed
by the World Bank in consultation with DFIs and the GOI and the Line became
operational in September 1989. The last date for commitment and drawal under
the line were Dec. 31, 1992 and December 31, 1995, respectively. The line was
closed in March 1993.
II.   PROJECT DESIGN
2.1   The line was designed in 4 parts viz. Part A, 6, C & D as under:-



71                           Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
* Part "A", and "B" administered through ICICI and IDBI includes sub-loans to
eligible enterprises in the electronics industry sub-sector.
* Part "C" intended for manpower development and training involved
upgradation of training capabilities of participating engineering colleges, etc.,
provision of consultants, equipment and training materials and development
of closer linkages between electronics industry and participating engineering
colleges.
* Part "D", the technical assistance component, was divided into two areas:-
(i) study and seminar on computer software industry in India; (ii) seminars
and related studies to improve investment growth and efficiency in
electronics industry; and (iii) training programme for upgradation of staff of
IDBI and ICICI to identify, appraise and implement electronics industry
projects.
This report covers Part B and Part D(iii) of the project that pertains to IDBI.
Loan Allocation:
2.2   The allocation of the Line was as follows
Amount in US $
Cateaorv                 equivalent
(i)  Subloans for investment projects    101 mn.
funded by IDBI.
(ii) Technical assistance for Training  0.540 mn.



72                                      Annex D
IDOI
IBRD 3095 IN
2.3    Structure of the loan
2.3.1 For the first time, funds under the line of credit were designed to be given
directly to IDBI as compared to the earlier practice of routing through the GOI.
The loan, guaranteed by the GOI, was a multi-currency pool loan. The rate of
interest to IDBI was pegged at 0.5% over the cost of qualified borrowings of the
World Bank.
2.3.2 Foreign currency sub-loans were designed to be funded at a rate of
intesrest equivalent to 2% above the cost to IDBI under the line. In such an
event, the foreign exchange risk was to be borne by the sub-borrower. In a
rupee designated sub-loan, the interest rate was to be the same as that under
Exchange Rate Administration Scheme (ERAS)'.
2.3.3 The foreign currency loan entailed exchange risk of the World Bank's
multi-currency pool, wherein the precise exposure was not known to the
borrower; also the interest rate, which varied, based on World Bank's cost of
multi-currency pool, could not be quantified. Hence there was no demand for the
loan in foreign currency and the entire loan was disbursed under the ERAS,
since it afforded the sub-borrower, protection from exchange fluctuations.
1 ERAS was introduced to afford a measure of protection from exchange risk, to the clients of DFIs that avaied of foreign
currency loans. The scheme was so deviced to distribute the cost of such protecfion equiably among all the borrowers. The
rupee-fied loan under ERAS was sanctioned at a rate of interest that included weighted average interest cost, DFI's spread and
an exchange premium.



73                           Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1  Assistance to Sub-Borrowers
Commitments and Disbursements
3.1.1 Out of an allocation of US $ lOlmn. made by the World Bank for on-
lending to IDBI sub-borrowers, a sum of US $ 60.11mn. was committed to 36
sub-borrowers. Thus, the average commitment per project works out to US $
1.67mn. Of these commitments, loan was disbursed under the line only to 17
projects to the extent of US $ 21.37mn. The unutilised portion of US $ 79.63mn.
was surrendered. (Annexure 1). The short utilisation was due to various factors
viz., (i) inability of the sub-borrowers to hedge the foreign exchange risk as also
interest rate risk arising from the multi-currency pool loan terms (as explained
briefly under para 2.3.3); this had resulted in no demand for FC denominated
loan and the entire loan was disbursed under ERAS as a rupee-tied loan; and
(ii) specific macro-economic developments in the country resulting in downward
movement of the Indian Rupee against the US $ and/or other convertible
currencies in which the imports were invoiced. The specific developments in the
foreign exchange markets due to the two-stage adjustment of rupee in 1991 and
the introduction of Liberalised Exchange Rate Management System in 1992
made ERAS unattractive, due to which, the demand for loans under the line
dropped. These reasons are discussed in subsequent pages in greater detail.
Other reasons for short utilisation are changes in the means of financing,
reduction in the final cost of the project and part cancellation of IDBI's
assistance, in a few cases. Average utilisation per project under the line works
out to US $ 1.26 mn.



74                                     Annex D
IDBI
IRRD 3095 IN
-5 ub-sector- wise Commitments
3.1.2  Sub-sector-wise list of sanctions is given in the    Annexure - 2. The share
of assistance to consumer electronics (59.03%) was the highest followed by
industrial electronics and components (25.33%).Thus, these two sub sectors
together shared over 84.36% of the total assistance under the line.
purpose - wise Commitments:
3.1.3 Assistance under the line have been broadly distributed over a wide range
of purposes, viz., for new  projects, expansion  of capacity, upgradation  I
modernisation of existing plants and for diversification into new areas of activity.
Besides, the design of the credit provided for sanction of loans for working
capital as well and 4 projects were hence given working capital loan. Data on
purpose - wise assistance are given below.
US$MN.
PURPOSE            NO. OF         AMOUNT
PROJECTS        disbursed
NEW                         6             5.866
EXPANSION                   7             6.341
DIVERSIFICATION             3             3.756
WORKING CAPITAL             4             9.551
TOTAL'                      17           21.373
aSame project is sometimes intended of for more than one purpose. IlTerefore the summation of the no. of projecs
under the different categories exceed the actual number of projects.



Annex D
75
IDBI
1BRD 3095 IN
State - Wise Commitments:
3.1.4 Commitments under the line have been distributed over a fairly wide
geographical spread since projects located in different parts of the country have
been assisted.  It may be observed from    Annexure 3 that maximum no. of
projects assisted are located in Maharashtra (4 with an assistance of US$9.303
mn.).  Other states that had projects assisted under the line were Gujarat,
Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Since the number of
projects are few, it is difficult to draw any meaningful conclusion regarding the
geographical reach of this assistance.
Size - Wise Commitments:
3.1.5  Size-wise classification of assistance sanctioned is furnished below
Size interval          No. of      Amt. sanctioned   Amt. Disbursed
Projects        US $ mn.          US$mn
Less than US $ Imn.            10             5.530            3,823
US $ lmn - 2mn                 2              3.679            3.639
US $ 2mn - 6mn                 3             11.652            5.444
US $ 6mn                       2             20.672            8.467
Total                17             41.533           21.373
A substantial number of projects (12) accounting for 35% of disbursed amount
were projects with an assistance of less than US $ 2mn. There were 2 large
projects that accounted for 40% of the total assistance disbursed.



76                         Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
Overall Performance
3.1.6 Of the 17 projects assisted the performance of 9 which were set up for
the manufacture of consumer electronics and computer hardware/software were
good. All these loans have been either fully repaid or the repayments are
regular. The remaining projects which are engaged in manufacture of electronics
components are affected by adverse market conditions, inadequacy of power,
competition  from  existing  players, competition  from  imports following
libieralisation of the trade regime etc. In a few cases, IDBI has taken steps to
offer certain temporary reliefs and concessions to turn around the company. IDBI
has also entered into one-time-settlement in a few cases for recovery of its dues.
3.2  Technical assistance (TA)
3.2.1 The Technical assistance component included a grant of Jap. Yen 73 mn.
(equivalent. to US $ 540,000) for carrying out programme to upgrade IDBI's
capability to identify, appraise and implement electronics projects.
3.2.2 IDBI had engaged the services of Dataquest, a 'Califomia based
consultant firm for design and execution of a training-cum-plant visit programme
for IDBI Officers. A twelve week training programme outside India besides a
one-week orientation session in Mumbai was formulated. The programme was
conmprised of both classroom sessions as well as plant visits. The overseas
training programme covered seminars and field visits in USA, Europe and the
Far East. The programme enabled the trainees to take up soctoral analysis of



77                            Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 tN
the various sub sectors of the industry. Besides the team made a review of the
global market scenario, and the prevailing government support to thle electronics
industry in various countries. On account of the training the team could enrich its
knowledge of the international scene in electronics industry. Thus the funds
channeled for training and HRD have been fully and effectively utilised.
X,3   Electronics Portfolio of 112BI
3.3.1 A brief look at IDBI's electronics portfolio is expected to throw light on the
performance of the industry and IDBI's assistance to it. It may be observed from
Annexure 4 that IDBI's assistance to thie industry has grown significantly over
1989-97, although the extent of growth is particularly high during 1993-96. This
confirms the hypothesis that electronics industry which is import intensive, has
been affected by the significant changes in the trade and exchange rate policy
regime during 1991-93. But the positive impact of liberalisation thereafter is
apparent in the increase in the sanctions that have taken place in the following
years.
Sub-sector wise assistance
3.3.2 From Annexure - 5 giving sub sector-wise classification of assistance it is
observed that assistance to electronic components (44.53%) was the highest
followed by consumer electronics (41.01%).  Assistance to computers and
peripherals thereof constituted about 10-11% , whereas there was negligible
share of industrial electronics & communication and broadcasting equipment.
These data are in line with the overall production data for the industry which



78                          Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
exhibits the growth of consumer electronics, components and computers sub
sectors. One notable feature of computers (both hardware and software) is that,
although there has been significant growth in production, its relative share in
sainctions by IDBI is not correspondingly very high. This is because of the very
nature of the industry where investment in tangible assets is not very high, thus
leaving less scope for assistance by DFIs that lend money against tangible fixed
assets.
State-wise assistance
3.3.3 Geographically, maximum share of assistance during 1989-1997 went to
Maharashtra (22%), followed by Uttar Pradesh (11%) Karnataka (10%) and
Maidhya Pradesh (9%). By and large, assistance was spread over a wide
geographical area.
3.3.4 As will be apparent from Annexure - 6, most of the assistance was
granted to the private sector and a few projects assisted in the joint sector.
IV    Achievement of Obiectives:
4.1  3095-IN is the first project loan from the World Bank to IDBI, without direct
exchange protection from the GOI. The loan, conceived during the period of
deregulation in the Indian economy, was expected to provide financial support
to IDBI to on-lend to projects to be undertaken by individual enterprises, and,



79                           Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 INi
strengthen its institutional capacity to appraise electronics projects effectively in
the less regulated environment.
4.2    The assessment of achievement of these objectives need to made,
based on the set targets and the changinlg context of the Indian economy since
the loan was contracted. Commitments under the line began in early 1990 and in
the initial two years itself 60% of the loan was committed. The drawals under
the line was also progressing satisfactorily. However, on account of cancellation
of the line in April 1993 for both commitments and drawals, the utilisation under
the line was limited to US $ 21.37 mn. in respect of 17 sub-projects. This was
basically due to the various factors, summarised below -
a)     As the loan was out of the multi-currency pool of World Bank, sub-
borrowers were required to bear the exchange and currency risk of the loan
since IDBI was not permitted, by charter, to assume exchange risk.
Therefore the entire loan was covered under ERAS whereby, the
exchange/currency risk to the sub-borrower was limited to a premium, loaded
into the applicable interest rate on the rupee-tied loan, with the excess over the
said premium borne by the GOI. Due to continuous depreciation of the rupee
during the first three years after the introduction of ERAS, the premium collected
by way of additional interest under the scheme was not sufficient to cover the
losses on account of exchange fluctuation. On a review made in 1993 it was
found that ERAS was no more viable and in consultation with Government of



80                           Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
India it was decided to discontinue the scheme with effect from April 29, 1993.
With the cancellation of ERAS it was no more possible to utilise the currency
pool line of credit from World Bank. Therefore at the request of the Institutions,
World Bank agreed to cancel the unutilised portion of the loan.
b)   With the introduction of Liberalised Exchange Rate Management System
and partial convertibility, companies were able to procure free foreign exchange
for financing their imports. Therefore the terms of the currency pool loan were
not: attractive to sub-borrowers.
4.3   When demand for loans under the credit dried up due to the aforesaid
reasons, efforts were made to have a viable alternative. A switch-over from the
currency pool to a US Dollar denominated loan would perhaps have been
acceptable to the sub-borrowers; but the World Bank found itself unable to
change the loan terms retroactively. The alternative suggestion of swapping
currency pool to US Dollar or Rupee by the RBI also did not materialise.
Hovvever, the experience of this credit seems to have lead to the introduction of
single currency pool / loan schemes by the World Bank subsequently.
4.4   Having recognised the foregoing circumstances that limited the utilisation
of credit, it is still necessary to observe that all the envisaged projects were, by
and large, implemented. The projects that availed assistance catalysed an
average investment of Rs. 495 mn. involving an average employment generation



81                               Annex D
IDBI
IBRD3095 IN
of 450 persons per project.  The envisaged financial and economic rates of
return for the assisted projects were 13.2 to 25% and 14.10 to 80% respectively.
The minimum project parameters were fulfilled. The analysis of IDBI's electronic
portfolio during 1989-97 indicates that the electronics industry that suffered a jolt
during 1992-93, soon picked up momentum thereafter. Thus although utilisation
under the line was not upto the expectations, the projects and growth rate in the
industry did not suffer.
Technical Support
4.5   Looking from  the objective of providing technical support to the DFIs,
there has been substantial strengthening of IDBI's appraisal and monitoring
capabilities.
V      Performance of IDBI:
5.1   IDBI's portfolio  of direct finance comprises over 3000  companies
representing the complete range of industrial activities and a well diversified
client profile. Its portfolio of loans and investments as on March'31, 1997 was
Rs. 468 billion. Data on IDBI's sanctions are given in Annexure - 7.
5.2   The following two tables summarise the information on IDBI's financial
performance during the last four financial years.



82                                 Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 I
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _(Rs. million)
As at / for year ended March 31           1994      1995    1996     1997
NNet Worth                                33540    37420    63344    72134
Total Assets                             345880   381610   443716   503289
Total Income                              35850    40930    49630    59638
Total Expenses                            27890    30620    36530    44815
Profit before Tax                         7960    10310    13100    14823
Profit after Tax                          6110      7960    10073    11442
Key Ratios and Indicators of Profitability
As, at / for year Ended March 31      1994        1995        1996       1997
Average cost of funds (%)              8.25       8.10        8.37        8.90
Average return on assets (%)          10.92       11.25       12.03      12.59
M_argin (%)                            2.67       3.15        3.66        3.69
Net Profit Margin (after tax) (%)      1.80       2.21        2!44       2.42
Return on average Net Worth (%)       19.56       22.75       19.69      17.03
Cpital Adequacy Ratio (S)              13.4        12.4       15.87       14.66
Standard Assets to Total Assets (%)    91.8       92.2        90.6       89.73



83                            Annex D
IDBI
IBRD 3095 IN
VI.   Operational Experience
6.1  The loan was approved at a time when the economy was going through a
phase of macro economic changes. The industry undergoing restructuring also
had import requirements to be met. However the terms of the foreign currency
loan were unattractive, since, under the multi currency pool loan, both the
currency composition as well as the interest rate kept changing and the sub-
borrowers could not hedge these risks.
6.2  ERAS, which offered protection against these fluctuations turned out to be
expensive in the changed environment following liberalisation in financial and
foreign exchange markets.
6.3  In helping the industrial units, cash-in on the available opportunity and
upgrade the product quality, IDBI has played a direct role as well as a catalytic
one.
6.4  Liberalisation has had mixed impact on the electronics sector which has
grown significantly at the aggregate level. The exim policy has opened up the
Indian market to the world compelling competitiveness on the part of Indian
manufacturers, particularly in the consumer durables sub-sector. Software
exports have registered significant growth rates in the recent years.
6.5  In supporting the electronics sector in its transformation from a relatively
protected one in an era of regulated regime to the current competitive one, IDBI
has played the role of a financier, catalyst and advisor.



Annex D
84                                           Annexure 1
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
Company-wise details of IBRD authorisations and claims made
Sub project                                              Amount        Claims made
Name of the subborrower       Date       Authorised        (USD)
A.1.02     Gujarat Narmada Electronics     17-Aug-90      $15,000,000      $3,439,737
B 1.01     Gujarat Poly AVX Electronics    9-Mar-90        $1,867,960
B 1.02     Punsumi India Ltd.              9-Mar-90        $1,475,000      $1,475,000
B.1.03     Videcon International Ltd.      18-May-90       $3,558,730      $3,558,730
B.1.04     Onida Savak Ltd.                21-May-90         $630,000        $524,861
B.1.05     Calcom Vision                   4-Jun-90          $160,000
B.1.06     Precision Electronics Ltd.      4-Jun-90          $232,000        $131,633
B.1.07     Rolta India Ltd                 19-Jun-90         $690,000        $652,401
B.1.08     Onida Savak Ltd.                26-Apr-91         $460,000
3.1.09     HP Electronic Systems Corp.     13-Dec-90         $780,000
B.1.10     Videcon Intemational Ltd.        3-Jan-91       $5,672,150      $5,027,262
B 1.11     Kalyani Sharp (I) Ltd.          15-Jan-91       $4,690,000         $65,214
B.1.13     Fine Line Circuits Ltd.         15-Jan-91         $690,000
B.1.15     OIE/N Connectors                27-Feb-91         $551,000
B 1.16     Gujarat Perstorp Electronics    24-Apr-91         $455,000        $443,258
B.1.17     Incap Capacitors Ltd.           24-Apr-91         $790,000        $780,670
B.1.18     Digital Equipment (I)           29-Apr-91       $2,011,000
B.1.19    Advanced Radio Masts P. Ltd.     29-Apr-91         $380,000        $386,256
B 1.20     HCL Ltd.                        7-May-91        $3,403,290      $1,819,998
B.1.21     Punsumi India Ltd.              7-May-91        $2,204,000      $2,164,436
B.1.22     Namtech Electronic Devices Ltd.  24-Jul-91        $680,000        $362,119
B.1.23     Gozawara Electronics            24-Jul-91         $568,000
B.1.24     ICICON Electronics              24-Jul-91         $379,000        $188,293
B.1.25     Integrated Technologies         9-Sep-91          $877,000
B.1.26     Telematics Systems              9-Sep-91          $154,000
B.1 27     L. & T Ltd.                     9-Oct-91          $720,000        $200,207
B 1 .28    Sandur Manganese & Iron Ores    7-Nov-91           $87,000
B.1129     Electronics Corporation of India  7-Nov-91      $1,640,000
B.1.30     PEICO Electronics & Electricals  16-Dec-91      $1,738,000
B.1.31     Wipro Systems Ltd.              27-Jan-92         $574,000        $152,837
B.1.32    Applied Electronics              27-Jan-92         $171,000
B 1.33     Advanced Radio Masts P. Ltd.    27-Jan-92       $1,304,000
B.1.34     Mirc Electronics Ltd.           13-Apr-92       .$1,152,000
B.1.35     Spencer & Co.                   13-Apr-92       $1,674,000
8.1.36     Artech Power Products           13-Apr-92         $263,000
B.1.37     Mafatlal Industries              9-Jun-92       $2,425,000
TOTAL                              $60,106,130     $21,372,913



85                                 Annex D
Annexure 2
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
INDUSTRY SEGMENT-WISE ASSISTANCE SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED
Industry Segment               No. of     Amount   % Share   Amount           Shr
projects   Authorised            Disbursed%Shr
Communication & broadcasting equipments     1         $380,000   0.91%      $386,256   1.81%
Computers & Components                      5       $5,619,290   13.53%    $2,957,077   13.84%
Consumer Electronics & Components           5      $29,550,880   71.15%   $12,615,805   59.03%
Industrial Electronics & Components         6       $5,983,000   14.41%    $5,413,775   25.33%
TOTAL                       17     $41,533,170  100.00%  $21,372,913  100.00%



86                                  Annex D
Annexure
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
STATE-WISE ASSISTANCE SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED
Name of the subborrower    No. of         Amount    Share               unt% Share
projects    Authorised                Disbursed
ANDHRA PRADESH                  2         $1,170,000   2.77%       $1,166,926   5.46%
GUJARAT                         3       $15,834,000  37.50%        $4,071,288  19.05%
KARNATAKA                       3         $1,974,000   4.75%         $715,163   3.35%
MAHARASHTRA                    4        $14,610,880  35.18%        $9,303,607  43.53%
RAJASTHAN                      2          $3,679,000   8.86%       $3,639,436  17.03%
UTTAR PRADESH                   3         $4,265,290  10.27%       $2,476,493  11.59%
TOTAL                17       $41,533,170  100.00%      $21,372,913  100.00%



87                         Annex D
IBRD 30951N           Industrial Development Bank of India   Annexure 4
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY PORTFOLIO
SANCTIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS 1989-97
Year   No. Sanctions  Disbursements
Rs. million    Rs. million
1989-90    40    1,054.28             819.05
1990-91    38    1,231.17             791.10
1991-92    44    1,167.27             720.04
1992-93    43       985.70            714.72
1993-94    31    1,221.44             695.88
1994-95    41    2,807.43           2,353.42
1995-96    43    4,001.85           3,455.42
1996-97    26    1,588.00             890.44
Total      306   14,057.13          10,4409



IBRD 3095IN                          Industrial Development Bank of India                  Annexure 5
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY PORTFOLIO                    Sub-sector wise
SANCTIONS AND DISBIURSEMENTS DURING 1989-97
Share in
Share in                total
total    Disbursem   disburse
Subsector                  No. Sanctions   sanctions       ents      ments
-     Rs. million           Rs. million
Communication & Broadcasting Equipment        2      100.00     0.71%        100.00    0.96%
Consumer Electronics                         87    5,764.32    41.01%      4,301.-39   41.20%
Computers & computer peripherals            44    1,473.92      10.49%     1,219.86   11.68%
Electronic Components                      156    6,260.30    44.53%       4,429.64   42.43%
Industrial Electronics                       17      458.60     3.26%       389.21    3.73%
Total                   306  14057.134 1  100.00% 1 10440.086   100.00%



89                         Annex D
IBRD 30951N          Industrial Development Bank of India   Annexure
ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY PORTFOLIO        Sector-wis
SANCTIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING 1989-97
Share in
Share in    total
Disbursem      total   disbursem
Sector No. Sanctions        ents    sanctions    ents
Rs. million    Rs. million
Joint    27       908.17     567.682      6.46%       5.44%
Private 275  13109.764   9847.222    93.26%          94.32%
Public    4         39.2      25.182      0.28%       0.24%
Total  306  14057.134  10440.086   100.00%    100.00%



Annexure 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Data on operations - Sanctions
_____________________________________________________  ____________        (R s.   M illion)  _lion_
Year ended March 31                   1993        1994         1995        1996        1997
Direct Assistance
Rupee loans                                           47200        60726       92993      130649       101272
Foreign currency loans                                 6760        10662       26210       17003       25819
Underwriting and direct subscription to shares, bonds and
debentures of industrial concerns                      11920       14430       25367       6916        4602
Equipment leasing                                      2070        1448        3427        12439       3103
Subtotal (A)                     67950        87266      147997       167007      134796
Guarantees for loans and deferred payments             4140        12179       19570       9040        14060
Subtotal (B)                      72090       99445       167567      176047      148856
Indirect Assistance
Refinance of industrial loans                          4990        5227        5229        6384        7455
Bills rediscounting                                    14300       14019       11881       11261       13746
Loans to and investments in shares and bonds of financial
institutions                                           4180        2837         1393        996         442
Subtotal (C)                      23470       22083       18503       18641       21643
Total (B + C)                     95560       121528      186070      194688      170499



91                               Annex D
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
Company-wise details of IBRD authorisations and claims made
Sub project                                               Amount        Claims made
Name of the subborrower        Date      Authorised         (USD)
A.1.02     Gujarat Narmada rlectronics      17-Aug-90      $15,000,000      $3,439,737
8.1.01     Gujarat Poly AVX Electronics     9-Mar-90        $1,867,960
8.1.02     Punsumi India Ltd.               9-Mar-90        $1,475,000      $1,475,000
B.1.03     Videcon International Ltd.       18-May-90       $3,558,730      $3,558,730
B.1.04     Onida Savak Ltd.                21-May-90          $630,000        $524,861
8.1.05     Calcom Vision                    4-Junl-90         $160,000        1
B.1.06     Precision Electronics Ltd.       4-Jun-90          $232,000        $131.633
B.1.07     Rolta India Ltd                  19-Jun-90         $690,000        $652,401
B.1.08     Onida Savak Ltd.                 26-Apr-91         $460,000
B.1.09     HP Electronic Systems Corp.      13-Dec-90         $780,000
B.1.10     Videcon International Ltd.       3-Jan-91        $5,672,150      $5,027,262
8.1.11     Kalyani Sharp (I) Ltd.           15-Jan-91       $4,690,000         $65,214
B.1.13     Fine Line Circuits Ltd.          15-Jan-91         $690,000
B.1.15     O/EIN Connectors                 27-Feb-91         $551,000
B.1.16     Gujarat Perstorp Electronics     24-Apr-91         $455,000        $443,258
8.1.17     incap Capacitors Ltd.            24-Apr-91         $790,000        $780.670
B.1.18     Digital Equipment (I)            29-Apr-91       $2,011,000
B.1.19..   Advanced Radio Masts P. Ltd.     29-Apr-91         $380,000        $386,256
B.1.20     HCL Ltd.                         7-May-91        $3,403,290      $1,819,998
B.1.21     Punsumi India Ltd.               7-May-91        $2,204,000      $2,164,436
B.1.22     Namtech Electronic Devices Ltd.  24-Jul-91         $680,000        $362,119
6.1.23     Gozawara Electronics             24-Jul-91         $568,000
B.1.24     ICICON Electronics               24-Jul-91         $379,000        $188,293
B.1.25     Integrated Technologies          9-Sep-91          $877,000
B.1.26     Telematics Systems               9-Sep-91          $154,000
B.1.27     L. & T Ltd.                      9-Oct-91          $720,0r0        $200,207
B.1.28     Sandur Manganese & Iron Ores     7-Nov-91           $87,000
8.1.29     Electronics Corporation of India  7-Nov-91       $1,640,000
8.1.30     PEICO Electronics & Electricals  16-Dec-91       $1,738,000
B.1.31     Wipro Systems Ltd.               27-Jan-92         $574;000        $152.837
8.1.32     Applied Electronics              27-Jan-92         $171,000
8.1.33     Advanced Radio Masts P. Ltd.     27-Jan-92       $1,304,000
B.1.34     Mirc Electronics Ltd.            13-Apr-92       $1,152,000
B.1.35     Spencer & Co.                    13-Apr-92       $1,674,000
B.1.36     Artech Power Products            13-Apr-92         $263,000
B.1.37     Mafatlal Industries              9-Jun-92        $2,425,000
TOTAL                              $60,106,130      $21,372,913



92                                Annex D
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
STATE-WISE ASSISTANCE SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED
Natme of thesubborrower    No. of         Amount sbShare           Amount % Share
Name of the subborrower   projects   Authorised                Disbursed
ANDHRA PRADESH                 2         $1,170,000   2.77%        $1,166,926   5.46%
GUJARAT                        3        $15,834,000  37.50%       $4,071,288  19.05%
KARNATAKA                      3         $1,974,000   4.75%         $715,163   3.35%
MAHIARASHTRA                   4        $14,61.0,880  35.18%      $9,303,607  43.53%
RAJASTHAN                      2         $3,679,000   8.86%       $3,639,436   17.03%
UTTAR PRADESH                  3         $4,265,290  10.27%       $2,476,493   11.59%
TOTAL                17       $41,533,170  100.00%     $21,372,913  100.00%



93                              Annex D
Industrial Development Bank of India
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
INDUSTRY SEGMENT-WISE ASSISTANCE SANCTIONED AND DISBURSED
Industry Segment               No. of      Amount   % Share    Amount   % Share
I.dustry Segment              projects   Authorised              Disbursed
Communication & broadcasting equipments      1         $380,000   0.91%       $386,256   1.81%
Computers & Components                       5       $5,619,290   13.53%    $2,957,077' 13.84%
Consumer Electronics & Components            5      $29,550,880   71.15%   $12,615,805   59.03%
Industrial Electronics & Components         6        $5,983,000   14.41%    $5,413,775   25.33%
TOTAL             --F-17            $41,533,170  100.00%   $21,372,913  100.00%



94                                Annex D
ILiidusti-ial Development Bank of Initlia
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
Purpose-wise Assistance Sanctioned and Disbursed
NO. OF      AMOUNT
PURPOSE           PROJECTS  AUTHORISED   CLAIMS MADE
Diversification                3            $8,480,730      $3,755,577
Expansion                      7           $11,685,730      $6,341,902
New                            6           $17,994,000      $5,866,478
Working Capital                4           $12,233,440       $9,550,789
TOTAL'               17           $41,533,170     $21,372,913
' NOTE:
3 projects were for both expansion and diversification
1 project involved expansion and working capital needs
These projects have been repeated under each of the categories
Therefore, the summation of the number of projects under the
different categories exceed the actual number of projects



95                                Annex D
Industrial Development Banik of Ind(lia
IBRD Line of Credit 3095-IN
Size-wise Assistance Sanctioned
NO.OF          AMOUNT
PURPOSE                      PROJECTS        SANCTIONED
Less than US $ 1 mn              10              $5,530,000
US $1 mn - 3 mn                   2              $3,679,000
US $ 3 mn - 5 mn                  3             $11,652,020
Above US $ 5 mn                   2             $20,672,150
TOTAL                   17             $41,533,170



96                                  Annex D
lnidustri-ial Developnment Bank of India
I8RD Line of Credit 3095-IN
Sub-bor-ower details - I
Sub      Name of the     Export                          Projct     Amount    Empl.  Fixed assets
oriented        Product           cost
project #   subborrower   (Yes/No)                        (Rs Mn.)  Disbursed  gen. (nos.)  (Rs. Mn.)
Gujarat Narmada           CTV glass shells & B&W
A.1 .02   Electronics        No   TV glass bulbs           4500.00    $3,439,737   .704       2679.70
CTVs, audio assemnbly,
B.1.03   Videcon             N     potentiometers,
8'1.0   International Ltd.      connectors, B&W picture   660.00    $3,558,730   2700      455.00
tubes
R.1.04   Onida Savak Ltd.    No   Tuners                    119.00      $524,861   N.A.        55.10
CAD, CAM, PCs, Mini
B.1.07   Rolta India Ltd     Yes   computers, Engg. work    212.50      $652,401    128       181.50
stations, Softwares
CTVs, audio assembly,
5 1 10   Videcon             No   potentiometers,           200.00     $5.027262              321.00
International Ltd.        connectors, B&W picture   2
tubes
B.1.11   Kalyani Sharp (I)   No   CTVs & VCRs               515.00       $65,214    800       473.50
B.1.20   HCL Ltd.                  PCs, EPABX               150.00     $1,819,998    22       117.50
B.1.22   Namtech Electronic    No   Gas discharge tubes and   127.50    $362,119    150
Devices Ltd.   '          modules
B.1.27   L. & T Ltd.         No   Dot matrix printers and   30-50       $200,207              6580.08
floppy + hard disk drives    3.0     $0,0
8.1.31   Wipro Systems Ltd.        Computers                79.00       $152,837    120        18.40
B.1.02   Punsumi India Ltd.        Aluminium electrolytic   200.90     $1,475,000    75
capacitors
13.1.06   Precision          No   Printed circuit boards!   201.00      $131,633    124       130.00
Electronics Ltd.          Pulse code modules
B.1.16   Gujarat Perstorp          Electronic grade copper   242.50     $443,258   222        227.10
Electronics         No clad laminates
Incap Capacitors          Aluminium electrolytic   12.0        $870         002.0
B.1.17   LdP PNo   ciintmltryt                              120.00      $780.670   200        120.00
8..7 Ltd.                No capacitors
Advanced Radio            Antennas, masts,
B-1-19   Masts P. Ltd.       No   towers, radio systems,    900.00      $386,256              840.00
Masts P. Ltd.             cables
B.1.21    Punsumi India Ltd.       capacitors               76.80      $2,164,436   N.A.
Multilayered Ceramic
E.1.24   ICICON Electronics    No   Chip and leaded         82.80       $188,293    151         Nil
capacitors
TOTAL                                        8417.50   $21,372,913    5396     12198.80



Annex E
AffM ETA  DIREKTION FOR ENTWICKLUNG UND ZUSAMMENARBEIT DEZA     Eidg. Departement faCr auswartige Angelegenheiten
ENDIRECTION DU DEVELOPPEMENT ET DE LA COOPERATION DDC         D6partement fed6ral des affaires 6trangeres
D  yrt   DIREZIONE DELLO SVILUPPO E DELLA COOPERAZIONE DSC         Dipartimento federale degli affari esteri
SWISS AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION SDC        Federal Department of Foreign Affairs
AGENCiA SUIZA PARA EL DESARROLLO Y LA COOPERACION COSUDE  Departamento Federal de Asuntos Exteriores
Development Cooperation - Asia I
Mr. Luis Emesto Derbez
Chief, Country Operations
Industry and Finance Division
t.311 India 136 - PHR-AJG                               Country Department II, South Asia
A? 031 325 9125                                         The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Bern, 14 July 1997
Electronics Industry Development Project (EIDP, Lns. 3093-4-5-IN) - ICR Mission
Comments related with the Manpower Development component ( Project IMPACT)
Dear Mr. Derbez
This is in response to your letters dated June 6 and 20, 1997, with the draft
Implementation  Completion  Report (ICR)   and  Aide  Memoire  (AM).   We  have
discussed the same with our Delhi Office.
It was agreed with Dr. Sidney Thomas that SDC's views would as far as possible be
reflected in the AM and ICR, and our supplementary comments would be limited to a
short note for inclusion verbatim into the ICR. This letter is meant to serve this purpose.
Please allow us to make the following points:
1. We find Dr. Thomas' report covering all three components (credit line-, technical
assistance- and manpower development) of the EIDP an impressive piece of work.
We have also appreciated your consultant's co-operative way of conducting the
mission.
2. Important concerns of SDC are reflected in the ICR. We are in broad agreement with
the views expressed by Dr. Thomas.
3. Where our and our consultant's views differ most with those expressed in the ICR is
on institutional development, effectiveness and sustainability. These issues are
particularly important for scale-up and replication - challenges both the ICR and AM
deal with.
Schwarztorstrasse 59 3003 Bern Telefon Headquarters 031 322 21 11 Telefax 031 325 93 63



98                   Annex E
Sustainability and institutional development are dimensions that were not considered
in a systematic manner in the Project's design (see also Mid-term Review Report).
The structure for the implementation of IMPACT was a "classical" project
organisation. SDC expects that this is going to limit effectiveness and sustainability
for "soft" inputs and processes that are critically important for long-term effectiveness
and sustainability: teacher training, curriculum- and learning material development,
industry linkages, training and retention of support staff. To this may be added that
the cost-levels of IMPACT services and inputs will severely limit absorption and
replication within sustainable local institutions.
SDC expects to gain a better understanding of the absorption, adoption and
institutionalisation of innovations initiated by IMPACT at the level of the Participating
Institutions from a study the Bank has been informed about on an earlier occasion.
4. We are in agreement and have appreciated the key lessons Dr. Thomas has drawn
on the collaboration with SDC as a co-financier. We hope that we will be able to
enter into a broader dialogue - based on experiences of a few co-financing projects -
with the World Bank on this, the objective being to enhance the effectiveness of co-
financing partnerships for the benefit of our common partner countries.
Thank you once again for your cooperation.
With kind regards,
yours sincerely,
',WISS AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION
!         /
'urt Voegele,
Head, Asia Section
CC: -Hr. Pfeiffer, COOF, New Delhi
-BW-Section, SDC Berne
Schwarztorstrasse 59  3003 Bern  Telefon Headquarters 031 322 21 1 1 Telefax 031 325 93 63



