Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6957-UA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 28, 1996
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
July 1996
Currency Unit  =  Karbovanets (Krb)
US$1   =  Krb. 180,000
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Krb per US$1
1992      -  2,212
1993      -  7,623
1994      - 63,224
1995      - 150,000
1996 (July) - 180,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
HMSAP  - Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program
MIS      - Management Information System
MSP      - Ministry of Social Protection
PIU     - Project Implementation Unit
UPS      - Uninterrupted Power Supply
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development
Zhek    - Municipal Housing Maintenance Organization
UKRAINE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A.      DETAILED  PROJECT DESCRIPTION    ................................ 1
Housing and Municipal Services Allowance Program  ......................... 1
Rationale for Bank Involvement .           ..................................... 2
Project Objectives ..............................................  3
System  Needs  ..............................................    3
Project Description, Costs and Financing  ................................ 6
Project Benefits  ..............................................   7
Project Risks ............................................... 7
B.      PROJECT ADMINISTRATION  AND IMPLEMENTATION   ................... 9
Project Organization and Management .........                   ......................... 9
Procurement ............................................... 9
Disbursement . ................................................ 10
Accounts, Monitoring and Evaluation  .........                  ........................  10
Schedule 1:    Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Schedule 2:    Training and Technical Support Plan
Schedule 3:    Implementation Progress Benchmarks and Plan
Schedule 4:    Procurement Tables
This report is based on the finding of an appraisal mission in July 1995 consisting of Y. Uchimura (task manager),EC4MS,
and S. Pananon, EMTDR. The peer reviewers were K. Subbarao, PSP, and F. Konigshofer, MN2TC. The Division Chief
is T. Blinkhorn, EC4MS. The Department Director is B. Kavalsky, EC4.






A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program
1.    The present govermnent moved to increase housing rents and municipal service tariffs and
improve recovery of service delivery costs as part of its economic reform program. The Government
issued Cabinet of Minister's Decree No. 733 in October 1994 increasing tariffs for housing, water
and sewerage, hot water, heating and gas in stages in order to improve recovery of production costs
to 20% immediately and eventually to 60% by July 1995. Implementation of the decree has been
delayed somewhat but the Government moved to implement 60% cost recovery in January 1996. The
Government is scheduling further rents and tariffs increases to reach 80% cost recovery in September
1996 and 100% in January 1997. This was the first step in dismantling a system of direct
government assistance to housing maintenance enterprises (Zheks) and water, heat and other
municipal service enterprises and reducing these enterprises reliance on the government budget.
2.    The rapid increase in cost recovery is not sustainable without some measures to protect the
poor who could not afford to pay. Housing and municipal services were highly subsidized under
central planning. Households generally paid less than 5% of monthly income for housing and
municipal services (compared to close to 30% in market economies). President Kuchma in his speech
to the legislature introducing the economic reform program stated that people should have to pay no
more than 15% of their income for housing and municipal services.
3.    The Government introduced the Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program
(HMSAP) in February 1995 (through Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 89, issued on February 4,
1995) which allowed families whose monthly payments for housing, housing maintenance, water and
sewerage, hot water and heating, and garbage and liquid waste collection, exceeded 15% of monthly
income to apply for an allowance equal to the difference. Subsequently, the costs of liquid and solid
fuels and electricity were included. This is a key step in that it moves the government away from
providing budgetary assistance directly to producers but shifts assistance to the consumer. The
program is targeted towards the poor: i.e. a poor family will receive more government assistance
compared with a more affluent family with the same housing and municipal service costs (because
housing and municipal service payments will account for a larger proportion of a poor family's
monthly income). It was reviewed positively as part of the social safety net analysis under the
Ukraine Poverty Assessment (Report No. 15602-UA) completed in June 1996.
4.    HMSAP started implementation in May 1995 when 754 administrative offices were opened
nationwide to receive and process applications. The Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) is
responsible for HMSAP and oversees the program through regional (oblast) Social Protection
Departments; the HMSAP administrative offices are under the jurisdiction of the local governments'.
Under the program, families are required to provide documentation on incomes and monthly
payments for housing and municipal services to their local administrative office. When the documents
are processed, a family's monthly payments are adjusted so that they only pay 15% of income and the
difference (between the family's reduced payment and the original bill) is paid by the local
government to the Zheks and other municipal service enterprises. As of March 1996, 3.2 million
households had been granted allowances averaging Krb 3.0 million (about US$16) per month per
household.
1/ The local HMSAP administrative offices are subordinated to the local government (district) and the Ministry of
Social Protection. This reflects the fact that local governments in the Former Soviet Union were defacto local arms
of the national government. Although separate, the sector departments within the local governments maintain strong
links with the mother agency in the national government.



-2-
5.    The number of participants in HMSAP is expected to grow as the cost recovery for rent and
municipal services is increased during 1996. The number of applicants has increased significantly
following the increase in rents and tariffs in January 1996. The number of households granted
allowances every month has increased from around 150,000 per month between May and September
1995, to about 290,000 between October 1995 and January 1996, to 670,000 in February 1996 and to
830,000 in March 1996. It is estimated that 4.6 million families may be enrolled in the program by
October 1996, an increase of 1.4 million families (or 44%) following the anticipated increase in the
rents and tariffs in September 1996.
6.    The HMSAP administrative offices will be hard pressed to cope with the increase in
applicants and participants. Although some offices have started to automate the processing (with
computers obtained through USAID or acquired with their own funds), most administrative offices
process applications manually. Already there is widespread dissatisfaction with the amount of
documentation required, the cumbersome bureaucracy and time required to apply for and receive the
allowances. In addition, the subsidies need to be recalculated every time there is an increase in rents
or tariffs. The HMSAP administrative offices are required to submit reports to the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Statistic but these are submitted late since they are produced manually.
The Government is proposing to address these issues through simplification of the application process
and automation of administration.
7.    USAID, through their consultants, has been active in assisting the Government develop the
HMSAP. They have been involved with the Cabinet of Ministers, MSP and the State Committee on
Housing and Municipal Economy in the design and monitoring of the program. Pilot efforts to
computerize the administration of the program have been carried out in several local HMSAP
administrative offices and the necessary software developed and transferred to the government.
USAID assisted the government carry out the overall assessment of their computerization needs and is
providing some (but not all) of the required equipment.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
8.    Housing and municipal pricing reform is critical to Bank operations in Ukraine. Rationalizing
public expenditures and improving the efficiency of public service provision is a key element in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank is carrying out projects in housing (Ukraine Housing
Project - Loan 3985-UA, approved in March 1996) and is proposing projects in water supply and
sewerage, heating and urban transport. Increased cost recovery for these (and other municipal
services) is essential if the service providers are to achieve financial autonomy and if prices are to be
used to reflect consumers' willingness to pay and provide suppliers with incentives to reduce waste
and improve efficiency in service delivery. Incomes will not be increasing as rapidly as the rents and
municipal services prices. HMSAP is critical if the government's housing and municipal service
pricing reforms are to be sustainable.
9.    The Bank is encouraging the government to move assistance from direct budgetary support of
housing maintenance enterprises, water supply enterprises and other municipal service providers to
assistance targeted towards the poor. Some government assistance is needed to assist low income
households meet shelter, water and other basic needs. This can be better achieved through programs
targeted to the poor and linked to a family's ability to pay. HMSAP is a move in this direction.
Bank involvement with the program will provide an opportunity to further the dialogue with the
government on developing a social safety net in Ukraine.
10.   Finally, time is of essence. The number of HMSAP applications and hence program
participants are expected to increase significantly during 1996 and 1997 if the government proceeds to
increase rent and municipal service tariffs to achieve 80% and eventually 100% cost recovery levels.
USAID is providing the government with assistance to meet part of the overall computerization needs.



-3-
While it is possible for other donors to fill the financing gap, the proposed amount, close to US$3.0
million, may be significantly large that it cannot be accommodated within existing programs. It may
not be possible for donors to make funds available within 1996 or early 1997, especially if additional
approvals are to be sought. The Government has turned to the Bank to fill the gap.
Project Objectives
11.    The proposed Housing and Municipal Services Allowance Computerization Project aims to
improve the administration of HMSAP by: (a) automating the processing of applications and data in
the administrative offices; and (b) piloting a system to electronically link the local HMSAP
administrative offices, regional offices and MSP and monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the
program. The summary of project objectives and key performance indicators is provided in Schedule
1.
System Needs
12.    The HMSAP administrative offices perform a variety of administrative functions which can
benefit from automation. The administrative offices receive application forms, verify their
completeness and accuracy, calculate the amount of allowance (government assistance) granted and
notify the applicants about the decisions on their applications. Each month, they estimate the total
value of allowances granted to families within the jurisdiction of their office and allocate this value
among the Zheks and municipal service enterprises within the area. They maintain records of
applicants and amounts of allowance granted and prepare monthly reports for the Ministry of Finance
(value of allowances granted) and the Ministry of Statistics (the number of allowances granted, the
size of families receiving subsidies and the type of ownership of the home). They recalculate the
allowances when prices of any municipal services are raised (which happens nearly every month in
most cities2) and, every six months, recertify participants by verifying updated information. In
addition, they maintain separate records of families that enrolled in the program with outstanding
debts for prior month, who are repaying their debts during the six months for which they have been
granted an allowance.
13.   It is estimated that one computer is needed for every 40,000 people living in an urban district
(city rayon), or 25 computers for every one million people in urban areas. A HMSAP administrative
office in a typical urban district with about 70,000-80,000 people is expected to handle a caseload of
between 8,000 to 12,000 families. Based on existing levels of activity, this would translate into a
monthly workload of about 4,000 to 5,000 applications broken down into about 1,000 new applicants,
about 2,000 families applying for recertification, and about 2,000 families requesting change in
allowance due to changing economic circumstances. In addition, there is the need to recalculate
allowances if rents or tariffs are changed, calculate the amounts due to the Zheks and other service
providers, compute about 250 debt (outstanding payments) repayment schedules and prepare
monitoring reports. In the future, this could include 50-100 audits of applicant files. Based on those
pilot offices where computers have been installed, an average operator can process about 100
applications per day (one every five minutes) or 2,200 a month. Therefore, an administrative office
in an urban district with 70,000-80,000 people would need two computers and two full time operators
for those computers.
2/ The minimum overall rate at which tariffs must be set relative to the costs of production is set by the Cabinet of
Ministers. Actual tariffs in each locality are set by the regional (oblast) governments. Local utilities, such as
heating companies and water suppliers, may also request tariff increases to cover the impacts of inflation. The result
is frequent tariff changes.



-4-
14.   Approximately 1,000 computers are estimated to be needed nationwide to complete
automation of the administration of HMSAP. Local HMSAP offices in the larger urban districts will
require multiple computers which would be linked together through a local network. Offices in
smaller cities and towns which require one or two computers will be provided stand alone systems
with their own printers. It is estimated that about 1,600 computers will be needed to computerize the
HMSAP. There are approximately 200 computers already in use and another 350 computers are
being provided by September 1996 through USAID. The project will be providing about 800
computers or 80% of the estimated needs, taking into consideration the possibility that some local
governments would purchase some computers on their own. All HMSAP offices will be
computerized at the completion of the project.
15.   Software to be used on the computers is already available. USAID consultants have designed
and developed a micro-based system in Clarion programming and database management language to
run in a single-user or multi-user platform that calculates and handles allowances and meets most of
the HMSAP information requirements. The program has been piloted and refined in an operational
context in several local HMSAP administrative offices and has been transferred to the government.
Additional refinement need to be made to software from time to time to incorporate changes to the
HMSAP as mandated by the government and administrative improvements, such as linking the
HMSAP with the database on pensioners and cost information from the Zheks.
16.   The regional (oblast) governments are responsible for managing HMSAP in their jurisdiction
and the local HMSAP administrative offices report to the regional government. However, these
regional governments lack regular and timely reporting on the program which would allow them to
identify and address problems as they occur and assess the effectiveness of different local offices.
The current reporting system, where information, in many cases prepared manually, is transmitted
first to the Ministry of Statistics and the Ministry of Finance, does not provide government policy
makers with up to date information on progress on HMSAP. In addition, MSP is interested in
developing information on regional differences in participation rates, levels of assistance and other
management information.
17.   Aware of the need for better management information, MSP is developing management
information systems with the assistance from USAID. The information needs and software has been
developed for a pilot national program to link local HMSAP office electronically with MSP through
the use of modems to provide more up to date and detailed reporting on, among others, the number
of beneficiaries, their characteristic and provision of allowances. MSP and the Kiev City
Administration are proposing to create a pilot regional management information system that would
allow regional HMSAP administrators to obtain accurate and up-to-date information on, among
others, the housing and municipal service allowance expenditures, staffing levels by office, the levels
of assistance provided to different Zheks and municipal service providers, appeals of decisions by
applicants, average time between submission of an application and notification to applicants,
calculation errors made by office staff, etc. USAID consultants are already developing a network
connecting local HMSAP offices with the head office for the Kiev City Administration which is
expected to be completed by September 1996.



-5-
Table 1: Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Millions of US$
Forex   Base
Local  Foreign   Total           Cost
Project Costs
A. Data Processing
Site preparation                      0.10         -    0.10    0%       4%
Computer systems                         -      2.10    2.10  100%      77%
B. Management Information System
Computer systems                          -     0.14     0.14  100%       5%
C. Training and Technical Support
Computer systems                          -     0.03     0.03  100%       1%
Consultancies                             -     0.20     0.20  100%       7%
D. Implementation, Monitoring and
Evaluation
Consultancies                            -     0.14     0.14  100%       5%
Base Costs (in July 1996 prices)           0.10     2.61     2.71   96%    100%
Contingencies                                -     0.29    0.29  100%      11%
Total Project Costs                        0.10     2.90     3.00   97%    111%
Financing Plan
World Bank                                0.00      2.60    2.60
Government                                0.10      0.00    0.10
USAID                                     0.00     0.30    0.30
Total Financing                            0.10     2.90     3.00



-6-
Project Description, Costs and Financing
18.   The proposed project will be include the installation of hardware and training of staff in
system operations and will consist of:
a.   Automation of Data Processing in HMSAP Administrative Offices (US$2.47 million
equivalent): Installation of around 800 workstations (monitor, computer and key board)
with Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) units, around 500 printers and diskettes and
other initial consumables in HMSAP administrative offices nationwide.
b.   Management Information System (US$158,000 equivalent): Installation of 5
workstations with UPS, modems with communications software, and initial consumables
in MSP; installation of 27 workstations with UPS, modems with communications
software, and initial consumables in regional (oblast) HMSAP offices; and installation of
80 modems and communication software in selected local HMSAP administrative
offices.
c.   Training and Technical Support (US$230,000 equivalent): Provision of 10 workstations
with UPS, 10 printers and initial consumables for the MSP computer training center;
classroom and onsite training and follow-up assistance on software use for local
HMSAP administrative offices; and additional software development.
d.   Project Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$142,000 equivalent):
Assistance for overall project administration; a study to evaluate the effectiveness of
HMSAP, including the impact of automation, and recommendations on additional
actions required.
The computers would be powered by Pentium 100 Megahertz microprocessors and contain a
minimum of 8 MB RAM and 1 GB storage hard drive. Because of the unreliability of the power
supply, each computer would be backed up with a UPS unit which would allow operators to store all
data and exit the system in the event of a unexpected power cut.
19.    Consultant assistance will be needed to oversee project implementation, conduct training,
provide technical support and carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the HMSAP including the
impact of computerization. Proper training of operators and provision of technical support is essential
for project sustainability. The training will be carried out in two steps: (a) formal training in the
MSP's computer training center in Kiev prior to the delivery of the equipment, where key staff from
the local HMSAP administrative offices will become familiar with the equipment and software to be
provided through the project; and (b) on the job training where operators in the local offices will be
trained in the use of the software immediately after installation in their offices. Consultants will also
provide advisory and technical support to local HMSAP offices. The training and technical support
plan is provided in Schedule 2. After the computers have been installed, an assessment will be
carried out of the impact of automation. However, computerization is only the means to facilitate
HMSAP achieve its program objectives. Therefore, the project evaluation study will include an
assessment of HMSAP on households and municipal service enterprises. In addition to providing the
basis for the project operation plan and implementation completion report, this evaluation is critical in
developing the follow up actions needed to improve targeting of government assistance to the poor
and strengthen the social safety. During negotiations, the terms of reference of the evaluation were
discussed and it was agreed that the study will be completed by December 31, 1997.
20.   The total project cost is estimated to be US$3.0 million equivalent of which US$2.9 million
equivalent (or 97% of total cost) is estimated to be the foreign exchange requirement. A Bank loan of
US$2.6 million will finance 100% of the foreign exchange requirements. The Bank loan will finance



-7-
the purchase of equipment for the HMSAP office automation and management information system
components and consultancies for project implementation. The remaining costs, US$400,000
equivalent will be provided by: (a) USAID, US$300,000 equivalent, from its ongoing assistance
program with the MSP for training, technical support and evaluation; and (b) the local government,
US$100,000 equivalent, for wiring and additional renovations that need to be carried out in the local
HMSAP offices to accommodate the equipment. The estimated costs and financing plan are
summarized in Table 1. These estimates do not include the cost of the use of the MSP training
facility in Kiev for formal training which will be borne by MSP. It was agreed during negotiations
that the Government will mobilize the necessary funding from alternative sources should USAID not
be able to finance all the training, technical support and evaluation requirements. This is agreement is
reflected in the Loan Agreement.
21.   The loan will be made to the Government of Ukraine at the Bank's standard terms and
conditions. The equipment will remain the property of the national government and will be rented to
the local HMSAP administrative office which are under the jurisdiction of the local governments.
This will ensure consistency with the USAID program and facilitate the administration of the Bank
loan
Project Benefits
22.   The benefits are faster processing of allowance applications and faster computation of
payments to be made at the end of each month to housing maintenance, water and other enterprises.
Financial benefits are the additional costs that the Government would avoid incurring to met the
increase in administrative workload following the rapid growth of applications. Without
computerization, it is estimated that the staff of the local HMSAP administrative offices may need to
be increased by 2,000 at an estimated cost of Krb 250 billion (about US$1.3 million) per annum.
23.   Over the longer term, automation of administration and introduction of management
information systems is critical to the success of HMSAP. The allowance program, in turn, will result
in overall budgetary savings, reduction in the public sector deficit and targeting of government
assistance toward the poor and truly needy. In 1994, consumers were estimated to be paying less
than 5% of housing maintenance and municipal service production costs. The bulk of these costs
were borne by the government budget; government budgetary assistance for housing and municipal
service suppliers was estimated to be approximately 4.4% of GDP and 8% of total government
expenditures. Increase in cost recovery and shift of government assistance from service suppliers to
needy consumers (i.e. poor households) will result in a reduction in government assistance as those
who are able to pay are asked bear a larger share of the cost of production compared to the poor who
cannot afford to pay. In 1995, payments by households are estimated to have increased to around
36% of housing and municipal service expenditures. As incomes increase, the overall level of
government assistance for housing and municipal services is projected to decrease.
Proiect Risks
24.   HMSAP is a program still in development and further changes are expected. One of the
issues is the complexity of the administrative process, especially the amount of information that has to
be collected by applicants and then has to be processed by the local administrative office. MSP is
reviewing ways to simplify the application process which would lead to changes in the way
information is processed; e.g. linking the HMSAP and pension databases so that pensioners need not
obtain separate documentation on their eligibility or pension amounts. The developers of the software
were aware of the potential changes and the software is designed to be flexible and accommodate
modifications to the information requirements and administrative procedures. Therefore, anticipated
changes in the application process would not result in the system being made obsolete.



-8-
25.   The installation of the equipment wtil be a logistical challenge. When combined with the
USAID program, there will be close to 700 computers being installed in several hundred local
HMSAP administrative offices nationwide. Office space will have to be provided, provision made
that power supply and access to telephone lines (for faxes and modem) is adequate, delivery and
installation scheduled, software loaded on to the computers and training provided. The phasing of
installation, delivery and training were reviewed in detail during appraisal and contracting
arrangements were structured accordingly. A detailed implementation plan will be developed to
assure proper coordination (para. 29).
26.   While both the Bank and government are interested in proceeding very quickly with the
purchase of equipment given the anticipated increase in applications for HMSAP allowances, the
formal government approval process for foreign borrowings has lead to delays in past loans.
Although the loan amount is small, the legislature (the Supreme Rada) would most likely be required
to approve this loan before it can be declared effective. The government has been quick in processing
the original request for Bank assistance. Ways to minimize the start up time were discussed with the
Government during appraisal and negotiations are part of the overall implementation schedule and
clear benchmarks established and agreed to monitor progress (Schedule 3).



-9-
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND JIMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization and Management
27.   MSP will be responsible for project implementation. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
consisting of three persons (a project manager, information technology specialist, secretary), will be
established within MSP. The PIU will be responsible for: (a) phasing and coordination of purchase
and installation of equipment and organization of training and follow up assistance; (b) purchase of
computers, printers and other equipment; (c) maintaining project accounts and monitoring overall
project implementation; (d) overseeing preparation of the evaluation report; and (e) coordination with
the Bank. The training and technical support consultants will provide assistance with software
installation, operator training and software trouble shooting and support. A procurement consultant
will assist MSP conduct the tendering of the equipment contracts and oversee delivery of equipment.
28.   Under the overall coordination of the PIU, implementation will be carried out as follows:
a.   Site Preparation: Local governments will be responsible for providing: adequate space
with security and ventilation (temperature control); desks and other office furniture; and
access to electricity and telephone line where modems are to be installed.
b.   Delivery of Equipment: The contractor (selected through competitive bid) will be
responsible for delivery of equipment to Kiev (for testing and installation of application
software) and subsequently to the local HMSAP offices. In case of network systems,
the contractor will be responsible for hook-up.
c.  Installation of Application Software and Set-up of Network Systems: The technical
support consultants will be responsible for installation of software and site testing of
network systems.
d.   Training: (i) General Training: MSP (with assistance from the technical support
consultants) will be responsible for carrying out training on HMSAP and initial
orientation of the application software; (ii) the technical support consultants will be
responsible for on-site training for local HMSAP staff.
e.   Follow-Up Support: The technical support consultants will be responsible for resolving
applications software problems and carrying out additional enhancements to the
application software.
The implementation plan and key benchmarks for monitoring implementation progress are presented
in Schedule 3.
29.   Proper coordination of training and technical support with the delivery of the equipment is
essential for the success of the project. It was agreed during negotiations that MSP will prepare a
detailed plan for scheduling training, technical support and equipment delivery by November 1, 1996.
This understanding is reflected in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement
30.   The procurement of goods under Bank financed components would be procured in accordance
with the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. The project components not financed by the Bank would
be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the cofinancing institutions procurement
regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are sunmuarized in
Table 1 of Schedule 4. A procurement plan detailing packaging and estimated schedules of the major



-10-
procurement actions is presented in Table 2 of Schedule 4. All other procurement information,
including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication of the General
Procurement Notice and the Bank's review process is presented in Table 3 of Schedule 4.
Disbursement
31.    The Bank loan will finance: (a) 100% of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures for items procured locally; and (b) 100% of consultant services. Direct
payments would be made to suppliers of equipment based on the contract. All equipment delivery,
consultant contracts and disbursement are expected to be completed by December 31, 1997. June 30,
1998 is proposed for loan closing.
Accounts, Monitoring and Evaluation
32.    Since the project will consist of a limited number of contracts3, the monitoring and
supervision requirements will be minimal. MSP through the PIU will maintain project accounts and
arrange for project audits. No mid-term evaluation is planned. An evaluation will be carried out of
the HMSAP program, including the impact of automation at the conclusion of the project.
3/ The project is expected to consist of four contracts: one goods contracts for the purchase of computers and
related equipment and three consultant contracts (training and technical support, project implementation and
evaluation study).



SCHEDULE I
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Summary of Obiectives and Key Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES                    INPUTS                         OUTPUTS                         RISKS AND CRITICAL             OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS
[Resources provided for project   [Goods and services produced  ASSUMPTIONS                  [of project activities]
activities]                    by the project]                [The outcome is dependent
___________________________     on  ..] I
Improve the administrative    *EBRD loan (US$2.47 million)    *Automation of calculation     * Ability of the government to    * Efficiency of Processing
efficiency in the local HMSAP   Local government budget      allowances per HMSAP            process the loan and carry out    Applications: From current
administrative offices         (US$100,000)                  allowance beneficiary, both     procurement of equipment in a    levels of around 30 days to
new applications and          timely manner.                  less that 2 weeks from receipt
Funds will be used to: (a)     recalculations (case by case)                                 of application to notification,
install workstations with UPS                                 *Coordination of purchase and    by September 1997
units, printers and other      *Computer generated allowance   delivery of equipment,
computer equipment in          notices to households (case by    installation of software and the    *Efficiency in Administering
HMSAP offices; (b) conduct     case)                          conduct of training.           the HMSAP Program:
formal and on the job training                                                               Average of 3,000 HMSAP
of operators; and (c) carry out    *Computer generated monthly    *Availability of back up   participants per workstation,
additional software           summaries of total allowance to  technical support, especially  by September 1997
enhancements                   be provided to each municipal    with use of the software.
service enterprises                                           *Eliminate government
budgetary support for housing
maintenance, water and
sewerage, heating, hot water
and gas enterprises by
September 1997.
Improve information           *IBRD Loan (US$130,000)        *Timely monthly reports on     Same as above.                  *Analysis of regional
availability and management of    USAID (US$300,000)         numbers of applicants, numbers                                differences on participation
HMSAP in pilot regions                                       of allowances granted, amounts                                rates, level of subsidies,
Funds will be used to finance:    of allowances paid,                                        staffing levels, effectiveness of
(a) workstations and           identification of recipients,                                 local HMSAP administrative
communications hardware and    average time between                                          offices and other management
software to MSP with 80        submission of applications and                               information.
sample HMSAP offices and 27    notification to applicants.
regional (oblast) offices; and
(b) an evaluation study.       *Evaluation Study on the
impact of computerization on
HMSAP and HMSAP itself on
the population.



-12-
SCHEDULE 2
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Training and Technical Support Plan
Background
1.     A training program has already been developed based on the pilot Housing and Municipal
Service Allowance Program (HMSAP) office automation carried out by the USAID consultants
(Padco). The existing training program is targeted for training the trainers from local staff of the
local administrative offices who would be responsible for supervising and/or operating the equipment
and software in their respective offices.
2.      The pilot program has shown that there is an adequate supply of personnel in most urban
HMSAP administrative offices who have some knowledge of computers and can be readily trained in
the use of equipment and software to be provided through the project.
3.     The existing training has been designed to consist of two stages. First, key personnel from
regional offices and local administrative offices are provided with a basic training in the use of
computers and the software in Kiev prior to installation of equipment and software in their respective
offices. The training session takes one week (five working days) and involves about 25 trainees (to
be trainers)4. The Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) has a training facility in Kiev that includes
adequate space for the temporary installation of 6 computers as well as dormitories and dining
facilities for low cost accommodation of trainees. A manual for users of the subsidy software
program has also been developed and is being used as the basis for training. Participants receive
sufficient copies of the manual to supply all computer staff in their offices and they are provided with
additional materials that explain the basics of using the computer systems.
4.      This formal training session is followed by on-site training at the local office as needed. On-
site training sessions are provided by the computer system technicians of the Padco's Technical
Support Office5. These technicians are familiar with the use of computer systems (operating software,
HMSAP and MIS application software, and other office technology equipment). Each Padco
technician can provide the overall technical support by telephone/fax and/or site visits of 20 to 30
local subsidy administrative offices. Specifically, these technicians are responsible for:
a.    On-site training of local staff in the use of computer systems, as requested by the local
offices;
4/ The one week course includes training in the use of the computers and the HMSAP administration software.
MSP also offers a two week course that includes one week training on the legal basis for and administrative aspects
of HMSAP and one week on the computers.
51-l Technical Support Office is currently being managed by Padco. At present, it consists of 18 computer system
technicians, 6 of them are located in Kiev and the other 12 technicians are assigned in 6 regions (Oblasts) where the
pilot HMSAP automation is being carried out.. It is anticipated that 14 additional computer system technicians would
be required to support the upcoming nationwide system of HMSAP. In addition to the Technical Support Office,
Padco also has an Application Software Development Office in Kiev, consisting of 6 systems analysts and
programmers who are responsible for the development and maintenance of application software for HMSAP and MIS
systems. In order to provide adequate services in the ongoing new application software development and
maintenance of the existing application software in use, it is anticipated that 5 additional systems analysts and
programmers would be required during the project.



-13-
b.   Customizing software to meet the specific requirements of local offices, where
applicable;
c.   Provision of technical guidance associated with overall computer system administration
functions, particularly in the areas of computer system security and routine data back-up
and recovery; and
d.   Identification of administrative and/or technical problems and preparation of feedback
on additional training requirements and application software system enhancements that
may be incorporated into future training program and the new release of application
software.
In addition, these technicians also assist the local offices in dealing with the work tasks associated
with the computer systems installation (e.g., cabling and connection of computer network systems,
installation of the required operating and application software products) and developing long term
contracts for computer assistance. While the equipment vendors are expected to provide warranties
for equipment they have supplied, the local offices may also need help with various technical
problems related to the use of software and equipment. In most urban areas, there are private
enterprises that provide technical computer support. The process of installing equipment and training
staff is designed to ensure that, when the technical specialist leaves, local office staff will be able not
only to operate the equipment and use the software, but will also know how to ensure the continued
effective use of the equipment.
5.    USAID consultants (Padco) presently provide telephone/fax consultation to local HMSAP
administrative offices on computer hardware and software issues. During the project, the MSP is
expected to establish "a technical advisory hotline" initially in Kiev to provide advise, as needed, to
the local administrative offices.
Equipment to be Provided under the Bank Project
6.    The Social Protection Support Project will provide additional equipment to the MSP and the
regional (oblast) and local HMSAP administrative offices to complete the automation of program
administration and introduce a management information system. The project will include the
following equipment:
a.   Automation of Data Processing in HMSAP Administrative Offices. Installation of about
800 workstations (PCs stand-alone and peer-to-peer networks) with Uninterrupted Power
Supply (UPS) units, and about 500 printers in HMSAP administrative offices
nationwide;
b.   Management Information System (MIS). Installation of 5 workstations with UPS,
printers, modems and communications software MSP; installation of 27 workstations
with UPS units, modems and communications software, and printers in 27 oblast
administrative offices; and installation of about 80 modems with communications
software in around 80 selected local HMSAP administrative offices;
c.   Training. Provision of 10 workstations with UPS units and printers for the MSP
computer training center.
The equipment will complement and be compatable to the equipment provided through the USAID
pilot program and will utilize the same software. The equipment is expected to be delivered during
the first half of 1997.



-14-
Training and Technical Support Under the Project
7.     Provision of training and technical support will be critical to the successful implementation of
the nationwide automation program. USAID will expand its technical support and training to include
computers and equipment being financed through the Bank loan. This assistance would be a
continuation of the support currently being provided by USAID and is expected to include:
a.   Assistance in the preparation of designated offices to ensure the readiness and suitability
of facilities for the installation of computer systems and other office technology
equipment;
b.   Acceptance testings for all computer systems and office technology equipment that are
delivered by the selected supplier;
c.   Installation and testing of HMSAP and MIS application software systems for all
designated local, regional, and headquarters offices;
d.   Formal and on-site training sessions for computer operators and end users as established
in the MSP training program;
e.   Additional system development and up-dating of documentation (technical system
design, user's manual, installation manual, and training documents);
f.   Assistance to MSP in the establishment of and staffing for "a technical advisory hotline"
to provide the day-to-day operational guidance to the user community;
g.   On-the-job training in all aspects of computing to all designated MSP computer system
technicians so that they will be able to take over the operational support of the
automated systems at the end of this contract.
This will be an expansion of the existing support under the USAID pilot project to all remaining local
HMSAP administrative offices.
8.     The existing training program has proven to be cost effective and successful and would be
used to train staff from the HMSAP offices supported by the Bank project. MSP with the assistance
of USAID consultants would continue to organize and finance the training of trainers in Kiev of about
300 additional staff in local offices from all 24 Oblasts throughout the country. Upon completion of
the formal training sessions, these trainees, supported by the field computer system technicians
designated to their respective regions will become the trainers in formal and on-site training sessions
for the remaining staff in their own local offices.



-15-
9.    To complete the required training program for HMSAP and MIS in a timely manner, the
MSP would need to organize and carry out six additional formal training sessions in the Kiev training
facilities according to the following tentative schedules:
Session #           No. of Trainees      Start Date    End Date
(25 per class)
1                   50                    1/13/97             1/17/97
2                   50                    1/27/97             1/31/97
3                   50                   2/10/97             2/14/97
4                   50                    2/24/97             2/28/97
5                   50                    3/10/97             3/14/97
6                   50                    3/24/97             3/28/97
It should be noted that the delivery and installation of the computer systems, under the project
financing, in the designated local offices are anticipated to occur from about March 3 to June 16,
1997. Therefore, on-site training sessions, if required, would need to be established for each local
office in accordance with the anticipated completion date of computer system installation and
acceptance testings.
10.   MSP would take over the training and technical support functions once the USAID assistance
is completed. Transfer of expertise and knowledge from the USAID consultants to MSP will be an
important part of the training and technical assistance plan. MSP is expected to designate about 20
computer system technicians to work with and be trained by the USAID consultants during the
project.
11.   A detailed plan would be prepared to assure proper coordination of the delivery of equipment,
formal and on-the-job training and technical support by November 1, 1996 or when the tender
documents and delivery schedule of the equipment have been prepared.



-16-
SCHEDULE 3
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Progress Bench Marks
Target Dates       Actions by the Government   :  Actions by the Bank      ;       Remarks
August 29, 1996                                   Distribute loan documents to    Documents need to be
the Board of Directors         distributed 13 working days
l__________________________                                     prior  to   review.
September 2,      MSP starts to advertise tender                                  The General Procurement
1996              (local newspaper and                                            Notice will be advertised in
notification of embassies)                                    the July 30, 1996, edition of
Development Business
September 19,                                     Present proposed loan to the
1996                                              Board for approval
By September       MSP submits tender documents
23, 1996          to the Bank for review
By September       Obtain CCC clearance of the
30, 1996          loan package                                                                                 ll
By September       Loan Signing                   Loan Signing                    Normally carried out in
30, 1995                                                                          Washington with an authorized
representative signing on
behalf of the Government
By September       Establish PIU
30, 1996
By October 11,    Supreme Rada approval of loan
1996
By October 4,                                     Comments and/or clearance of
1996                                              tender documents sent to MSP
October 11, 1996   Start of equipment tender:
issuance of tender documents
By October 18,    Ministry of Justice issues legal                                Supreme Rada approval
1996              opinion                                                         needed to issue legal opinion
By October 25,                                    Loan effectiveness              Based on review of legal
1996                                                                              opinion
By November 1,   Prepare detail plan for
1996              coordinating training and
computer installation and
submit to Bank for review
By November                                       Comments and/or clearance of
15, 1996                                          training and installation plan                               l
By November        Receipt of bids
25, 1996



-17-
SCHEDULE 3
UKRAINE
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Progress Bench Marks
Target Dates       Actions by the Governrent    J Actions by the Bank              Remarks
By January 1,      Training and technical support
1997               consultants in place                                                                          l
By January 9,      Submission of bid evaluation to
1997              the Bank
January 13, 1997   MSP to start training of local                                  Training to be carried out in
HMSAP office staff in Kiev on                                   groups to be coordinated with
the use of computers and                                        equipment delivery and
software                                                        installation.
January 30, 1997                                   Bank comments and/or
clearance of bid evaluation
March 3, 1997      MSP to receive delivery of first
batch of computer equipment
March 3, 1997      MSP and technical support
consultants to initiate
installation of application
software
By March 31,       MSP and technical support
1997               consultants to start on site on
the job training on use of
computers and the software
By March 31,       MSP and technical support
1997               consultants to start technical
support hotline
By July 1, 1997    Delivery of equipment to be
completed
By December 31,   MSP to complete review of
1997               project impact and effectiveness
of the HMSAP



UKRAINE                                                                        Schedule 3
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Plan
1996                                                       1997
7     8      9     10    1 1    12      1     2      3     4      -5  ~6       7      8      9     10    11    12
LOAN PROCESSING
By the Bank:
Appraisal                                          ++
Field Discussions of LA                              ++
Loan Negotiations (by fax)                               +
Board Presentation                                               +
Loan Signing                                                       +
Loan Effectiveness                                       _
By the GOU (MSP):
Field Discussions of LA              =_
Loan Negotiations (by fax)
CCC Submission & Approval
Supreme Rada Approval (?)                                                                                                                                                      co
Issuance of Legal Opinion
MONITORING & EVALUATION
By MSP:
Preparation of Evaluation Report    ______



UKRAINE                                                                      Schedule 3
SOCIAL PROTECTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Plan
1996                                                      1997 _1__ -
7     8     9    10    11    12       1      2     3     4      5     6      7     8      9    10    11    12
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
By the Bank:
Assistance in Preparation of Tender Documents    ++
Tender Documents Review & Approval                                  ++                                      _
Contract Award Review & Approval                                                        ++++
By the GOU (MSP):
Preparation of Tender Documents
Advertisement
Issuance of LOI & Tender Documents
Evaluation of Bids
Contract Award & Signing
By Equipment Supplier:
Delivery of Equipment                                                       _...... ....... ....... .......
INSTALLATION & TRAINING
By the Bank:                                      ___
Review of Training & Installation Plan
By MSP:__
Preparation of Training & Installation Plan          = 
Installation of Software                         _
Formal (Class room) Training
On Site (on the job) Training                     =_                                                              =     =
Provision  of Technical Support (hotline)                                                                 ----- -----  -----        -----  ----- ---
_- __ -. - _ __ - - - -_ _- - -_



UKRAINE                                                Schedule 4
Social Protection Support Project
Table 1: Procurement Plan
1              0:::::. .:.2   3             4             5                             6. Estimated: schedule
:i Type3  : No.of      Estimatedo   Procurement   Prequalification    Documeint   Invitation to  Contract  Contract
ect :   : ::: ::::...:.slicesfltems                5        method6                    preparation      bid        signing     completion
/subpackages4  : OSt
Data Processing Equip-      G                      2,560         ICB                             9/96        11/96         2/97         6/97
ment
Project Implementation      Cl       2               40          SSI                             9/96           -          11/96        12/97
Site Preparation            CW                      100          NBF
Training, Software Support,  CF                      300         NBF
and Evaluation Study
:I:Andicate total   : Indicatei total                                                                           o
:3,000
2   Name of Package
3   Indicate CW (for civil works); S&I (for supply and install); G (for goods); TK (for turnkey);CF (for consultant firms); Cl (for Individual consultants);
TR (for training). The type is related to the use of the relevant standard bidding documents
4   If known indicate number of slices, major items or subpackages expected in the package
5   Expressed in US$ '000; for example 5,000 = US$ 5,000,000
6   Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for Direct Contracting), FA (for Force Account), SLF ( for short-listing of consultant firms); SLI (for short-
listing of individual consultants); SSF (for Sole sourced of consultant firms); SSI (for sole sourcing of individual consultants), MW (for Minor
works), Other (for recurrent costs procured on the basis of administrative procedures based on a schedule and budget acceptable to the Bank); CB (
for Community based work based on guidelines and procedures acceptable to the Bank); CP (for commercial practices adjudged acceptable to the
Bank); NBF (Not Bank Financed)



-21-
Schedule 4
UKRAINE
Social Protection Support Project
Table 2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project                                    Procurement Methods                          Total cost
ICB           NCB          Other       N.B.F.
1  Works
1.1             Buildings                            -            -          0.10         0.10
1.2             Infrastructure                                                 -
1.3             Rehabilitation
and
Maintenance
2 Goods
2.1             Equipment and        2.56            -            -            -           2.56
Machinery
(2.56)                                               (2.56)
2.2             Construction
materials
2.3             Commodities
3  Service
Contracts
4  Consultancies
4.1             Studies,              -              -           0.04        0.30         0.34
Engineering and
Supervision                                     (0.04)                   (0.04)
4.2             Technical
Assistance
4.3             Training
5  Miscellaneous
5.1             PPF                   -              -
5.2             Recurrent Costs       -              -            -            -
Total                                2.56                        0.04        0.40          3.00
Bank/IDA                            (2.56)                      (0.04)                   (2.60)



Schedule 4
UKRAINE
Social Projection Support Project
Table 3: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element         ICB            NCB             is             NS         Consultants   Other methods  Percentage of
loan amount
subject to prior
review
1. Procurement   300,000
method
thresholds
2. Prior         300,000                                                      50,000                         98%
Review
3. Expost      Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
Review
7   Section 2: Capacity of the tmplementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
4. Brief statement
Procurement consultant will be retained by the Ministry of Social Protection to oversee procurement.
5. Country  Procurement Assessment Report or Country  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                        year ready by negotiations
Being finalized.                                          Yes I   No  [i3



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of  8. Estimated date of  9. Indicate if there are  10. Domestic Preference for 11. Domestic Preference for
Project Launch     publication of General   projects subject to     Goods                     Works, if applicable
Workshop            Procurement Notice      mandatory SPN in
Development Business                              Yes 0   No  0
10/96              7/30/96
Yes  0 No:              Yes 0   No  0
No  l9
6. Retroactive financing                                                   7. Advance procurement
Yes 0   No  I3   Explain:                                                  Yes 0   No  1E  Explain:
10. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The main equipment contract will subject to prior review. Procurement consultant will oversee tendering and delivery.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
11. Indicate name of Procurement Staff part of Project Team: Suwat Pananon         Division: EMTDR         Ext: 32574
12. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
The resident mission staff will oversee procurerment and provide guidance as needed.






I






