Report No. 23746
Report No: I075378 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/25/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BURKINA FASO    Project ID: P075378
Project: POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT II      Task Team Leader: Nicola
Pontara
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 15, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 8, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 35.00
Managing Unit: AFTP4     Sector: KY - Other Economic Policy
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
PRSC II will continue to support and further develop the medium-term
program outlined in PRSC I, designed to achieve better outcomes in the
management of public resources. It will focus in particular on the
implementation of public finance reforms that will result in greater
efficiency in the use of public funds, greater transparency and
accountability in public sector management, as well as more effective
public service delivery, particularly to the poor. The reform program
associated with this credit will also support the implementation of key
measures of the PRSP action plans in the areas of Basic Education, Basic
Health and Rural Development.
I.A.3. Project Description:
PRSC II is a one-tranche operation in the amount of US$35 million, which
would be the second in a series of three such operations. It will support
activities in the following areas:
A. Public sector reform and governance: (i) Strengthen program budgets,
linking allocation to specific sectors objectives, strategies and action
plans; (ii) Strengthen Government's capacity to track and manage public
expenditure efficiently; (iii) Improve public procedure and capacity in
the area of procurement, building on the recommendations of the CPAR; (iv)
Strengthen Supreme Audit institutions on the basis of the recommendation
of CFAA and (v) Promote accountability in the use of public funds and
adopt transparent mechanisms for allocating resources managed at the
district level.
B. Pro-poor sectoral policies:
- Improving access to, and lowering the cost of, basic education: (i)
Implement Governmental Action Plan in the area of basic education, (ii)
Subsidize school supplies in poorest provinces, (iii) Increase access to
education in rural areas by expanding the number of schools, and (iv)
Continue to provide books free of charge to poorest families.
- Lowering the cost of , and stimulating the demand for, basic health
care: (i) Lower cost of drug to users, (ii) Analyze impact of user fees



removal, (iii) Improve management and performance of health centers at
district level , (iii) Continue vaccination programs to boost vaccination
rates.
- Elaborate a comprehensive strategy for rural development: (i) Develop
action plans in key sectors (i.e. cotton, livestock and horticulture).
(ii) Restructuring of rural development operations under implementation,
to harmonize their objectives with those defined in the PRSP and (iii)
Continue efforts to build rural roads.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is not location-specific as it focuses on improving public
resources management through the strengthening of program budgets, better
service delivery, and accountability and transparency in resource
allocation and use in public investment programs. The activities supported
by PRSC II will be implemented through the Ministry of the Economy and
Finance and line ministries.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Burkina Faso's PRSC II has been classified as category B, based
on its coverage and the nature of the activities described above. As a
result, operational policy on environmental assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
applies. The Environmental Assessment, to be disclosed prior to appraisal,
will present a program of activities aimed at building capacity for
environmental assessment in the country for the medium-term (PRSC II and
PRSC III).
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential adverse effects on the environment are related to (i) design and
-2 -



location of sanitary facilities for schools (ii) health centers' medical
waste handling and disposal and (iii) selective community-based
investments.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Potential adverse environmental and social impacts related to PRSC II
(described above) are not expected to be large scale, nor significant and
or/irreversible.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Under PRSC I a review of environmental policies and practices was carried
out. PRSC II builds on the findings of this review and will concentrate on
building technical capacity and strengthening institutional and
administrative processes in the institutions responsible for enforcing EA
regulations and their compliance, through the development of a medium-term
action plan for EA capacity building. This action will guarantee that
conditions for an effective integration of environmental and social
safeguards in PRSC II and future ones.
Within the framework of PRSC II, and in accordance with the Ministry of
Environment and donors involved in EA in Burkina, it is envisaged that two
key measures will be implemented, namely: (i) Update of the EA Capacity
Plan and (ii) Update of the institutional responsibilities and the
administrative procedures of the directorate of environmental protection
and the agency responsible for enforcing EA requirements, and (iii)
implement the activities included in the EA capacity development plan.
Funding for these activities will be made available through the 2002
budget or through IDA-supported on-going projects. Some of the
recommendations emerging from the EA Capacity Plan may be implemented
under PRSC III.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
PRSCs support key activities identifies in Burkina Faso's PRSP. The PRSP
process (full PRSP and first Annual Report) have been characterized by
extensive consultations with civil society and all relevant stakeholders.
The consultative process with potentially affected communities will be
further strengthened within sectoral strategy implementation, supported by
ongoing sectoral projects funded by IDA and other donors, notably in
health, education and rural development.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
-3-



I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     1/21/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/28/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  1/30/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Nicola Pontara
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:       Remi Kini/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:        Serigne Omar Fye        02/21/2002
Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Akpa   02/21/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



