Report No. PID10769
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Poverty Reduction Support ...
Credit (PRSC) II
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomics
Project ID                       BFPE75378
Borrower                         Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Contact Person:H.E. Jean-Baptiste M.P.
Compaore
Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister
in charge of Finance and Budget
Phone: (226) 32 42 11
Fax:   (226) 31 27 15
Date PID Prepared                October 31, 2001
Appraisal                        February 5-20, 2002
Projected Board Date             March 21, 2002
I.      Background
1.      Burkina Faso has established over the past ten years a relatively
positive track record associated with good macroeconomic performance. Since
1991, the country has been implementing a wide range of economic reforms under
a series of stabilization and structural adjustment programs supported by the
Bank, the IMF and other donors. Burkina Faso's growth record over the past
ten years has been uneven. After declining during the first half of the 1990s,
real GDP picked up since 1994 and averaged 5.5 percent annually, despite a
significant deterioration in the terms of trade over the period. The
relatively strong growth performance is attributable to the competitive gains
following the 1994 CFA franc devaluation, to the large public investment
program, and to the financial and structural policies aimed at consolidating
the market orientation of the economy and maintaining macroeconomic stability.
2.      Economic growth decelerated in 2000 (2.2 percent) on account of
adverse weather conditions leading to a lower cotton crop, exogenous shocks,
including the increase in oil prices and the appreciation of the US dollar,
and the deterioration of the political situation in C¶te d'Ivoire (where 3
million BurkinabO reside) that significantly reduced workers' remittances. The
latter two adverse external shocks are estimated at around 2.5 percent of GDP.
Real GDP growth for 2001 is estimated to reach 6 percent.
3.      Burkina Faso has made significant headway in its transition to a
market-oriented economy, including in the areas of trade, fiscal and public
enterprise reforms as well as in the areas of social policy and institutional
development. The implementation of the first two phases of the privatization
program, launched respectively in 1991 and 1994, has been completed, involving
41 companies, which have been either privatized or liquidated. At the same
time, significant progress has been made in the third phase of the program,
which focuses on public utilities and the cotton sector.



II.     PRSC II Objectives and Description
4.      The overarching objective of the PRSCs series is therefore to support
the implementation of Burkina Faso's PRSP. The budget program supported by
this PRSC is a direct reflection of the priorities in the Government's PRSP,
which was discussed by the Board in June 2000 ; the credit was identified in
the CAS approved in November 2000. The first annual single-tranche PRSC for
Burkina Faso was approved by the Bank's Board on August 23, 2001. The credit
established a rolling medium-term policy framework setting out a three-year
reform program aiming at implementing the PRSP, with specific progress
benchmarks and outcomes indicators defined and agreed with the Government and
all donors. It was agreed that subsequent PRSCs will update and expand the
reform program,building on the analytical work underway (CFAA), the
finalization and costing of action plans in various priority sectors
(Education, Health, and Rural Development), and the findings of annual PRSP
progress reports. The rolling nature of the policy framework should enhance
predictability of funding for the Government and allow the Bank to better
monitor progress towards the PRSP target indicators.
5.      PRSC I was designed to help the Government achieve better outcomes in
the management of public resources by: (i) strengthening program budgets
linking allocations to specific sector objectives, strategies, and action
plans; (ii) improving service delivery in selected line ministries; (iii)
strengthening the fiduciary framework to promote accountability and
transparency in the use of public funds, including external assistance; and
(iv)strengthening the Government's capacity to track and manage public
expenditure efficiently. The proposed PRSC II will continue to support and
further develop the medium-term program outlined in PRSC I, with the aim to
improve service delivery. In addition, PRSC II will expand the program to
cover selected areas where new activities identified in the PRSP Progress
report are to be implemented in 2002 (rural roads, the energy sector, poverty
monitoring and evaluation). Consistent with the CAS, the proposed credit will
also help Burkina Faso meet its external financing gap, and support sectoral
policies consistent with efficient resource allocation and accelerated
sustainable growth.
III.    Financing
6.      The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$35 million equivalent,
which will be released at credit effectiveness. This amount is considered
necessary to support the implementation of the Government's spending program.
IV.     Environmental Aspects
7.      The proposed operation is considered a sectoral adjustment credit and
has been categorized as a "B" without a separate Environmental Assessment.
V.      Program Objective Categories (POC)
8.      The operation falls under the poverty reduction POC.
VI.     Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Celestin Monga
Macroeconomics Group
- 2-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473- 5125
Fax: (202) 473-5454
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW, Washington DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202)522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final report.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 3 -



