E588
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE BURKINA V ASO PRSC II
Operational Context and Description of Project Objectives
1. The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) series supports the implementation of
l-% _l---------
Durkina raso s  PROT, wih higilly  UlcncessionlaIlfnancilg.  nlese credits uu Hot provide
support to all the policy measures in the PRSP but selectively focus on key policy and
institutional reforms in priority areas. The focus of PRSCs is predominantly on the reform
program to improve the effectiveness of public spending, as well as the transparency and
accountability of public resource management. The PRSCs also support key sectoral reforms
in education, health and rural development. which are the sectors highlighted in the PRSP as
priorities for poverty reduction.
2. The proposed PRSC II for Burkina Faso will continue to support and further develop the
medium-term program outined    rint 1. it focuses in particular on the implementation of
public finance reforms that will result in greater efficiency in the use of public funds, greater
transparency and accountability in public sector management, as well as more effective
public service delivery, particularly to the poor. It supports the implementation of the PRSP
in two broad areas:
*  Public Sector Reform and Governance. The overarching objectives of PRSC II in
these repet are to: (a) improve the quality of the budget prcs in1 all its tage
(formulation, execution, reporting), (b) promote greater stakeholders' participation and
(c) improve the quality of PRSP monitoring and evaluation.
*  Pro-poor Sectoral Policies. In the 2000 PRSP, health, education, and rural development
were identified as priority sectors. PRSCII supports some of the key reforms in the
implementation of the first phase of the development plans in health and education. It
also sunnorts liberalization of the cotton sector and agricultural diversification as nart of
the rural development strategy.
3. Basic Education. In this area, key sectoral issues include: (i) low and unequal access to
basic education; (ii) high cost of schooling; (iii) poor use of resources (wastage) and poor
quality of education; (iv) inadequate financing of basic education; and (v) weak capacity for
management and supervision. The key objective pursued under the proposed PRSC II is the
improvement of access to, and lowering the cost of basic education by helping to:
(i)   Implement the Government Action Plan for basic education;
(ii)   Shsidize school sunlies in noorest nrovinces;
(iii)  Increase access to education in rural areas by expanding the number of schools;
allu
The series includes 3 PRSCs. PRSC I was approved by the Board of the World Bank in August 2001.
PRSC II is scheduled for June LUU. RSC Ill is tentatively scheduled for March 2003.
2 PRSC I supported the following objectives: (i) strengthening program budgets linking allocations to
specific sector objectives, strategies, and action plans; (ii) improving service delivery by ministries or
education, health and rural development; (iii) strengthening the fiduciary framework to promote
accountability and transparency in the use of public funds, including external assistance; ana (iv)
strengthening the Government's capacity to track and manage public expenditure efficiently.
ni P r1py
I  i L.L.     L# bI       a


﻿(iv)  Continue to provide books free of charge to poorest families.
4. Basic Health. Relatively high levels of fertility combined with poor health and nutritional
status are both a cause and consequence of poverty in Burkina Faso. They exacerbate poverty
by diminishing productivity, reducing household incomes while increasing their
expenditures. Other factors associated with poverty, including female illiteracy, and limited
access to basic social services such as potable water and sanitation, also contribute to ill
health and poor health outcomes. On average, Burkina has fared worse than other African
countries in these areas.
5. In order to improve the health status and the well-being of the population, the
Government has developed a 10-year Health Development Plan. The specific objectives of
the Plan can be summarized as follows:
* Improve access and raise the quality and utilization of health and nutrition services;
* Strengthen communicable disease control with a particular emphasis on reducing
HIV infection rates;
* Strengthen human resources;
* Increase overall funding for the health sector and improve financial access to health
and nutrition services by lowering barriers to health and nutrition care for the poor;
and
* Reinforce institutional capacities of the Ministry pf Health.
6. In the context of PRSC II, the government is committed to continuing with the measures
outlined above, in addition to adopting a new set of policies that focus on alleviating the
financial burden of user fees on households. To this end, the government has taken a number
of important measures, which are supported by PRSC II, including:
(i)   Reducing the financial burden of essential drugs on the poor;
(ii)   Removing fees on preventive services;
(iii)  Strengthening the management of cost recovery proceeds;
(iv)  Ascertaining the views of beneficiaries with regard to user fees;
(v)   Maintaining appropriate financing for basic health services targeted to the poor;
and
(vi)  Exploring options for developing incentives to maintain personnel in underserved
rural areas.
7. Rural Development. The agricultural sector is the main source of employment and
income for about 80 percent of the Burkinab6 population. It is also the principal source of
growth for the economy, contributing 32 percent to GDP and accounting for nearly 70
percent of total export earnings in 1999. The bulk of export earning comes from cotton,
which is an important engine for broad-based growth. The incidence of poverty amongst
cotton farmer is estimated at 50 percent. In Burkina Faso, the bulk of current and future
employment opportunities are in the large, labor-intensive small-scale agricultural and non-
agricultural sector of the rural economy.
8. There is an urgent need to relieve the pressure that rapid population growth is putting on
the fragile and limited land resource base. In particular, agricultural intensification and rapid
technological change are seen as the best way to increase the productive potential of the land
2


﻿base, and improve the living conditions in rural areas. The Government has developed a 10-
year agricultural development strategy (2001-2010) organized around five themes:
* Modernization of agriculture (improved seed, water management, fertilizer, farm
equipment);
* Soil fertility management;
* Food security;
* Support to producer organizations; and
* Institutional development.
9. The proposed PRSC 11 builds on the objectives pursued through PRSC I. In particular,
PRSC II will continue the strengthening of the policy framework that creates the enabling
conditions for a strong performance in key sub-sectors, notably in the cotton sector. PRSC II
will focus on the following actions:
(i)    Opening up the cotton sector to several operators;
(ii)   Developing action plans in key sub-sectors (i.e., cotton, livestock, fruits and
vegetables and horticulture); and
(iii)  Restructuring rural development operations under implementation in order to
harmonize their objectives with those defined in the PRSP.
10. While the PRSC II focus is on the above sectors and activities, it is important to
understand that the credit will support the implementation of the PRSP through broad and
overarching reforms associated with budget management rules. By emphasizing the quality
of the overall expenditure program, PRSC II aims at improving the efficiency of all public
expenditures across all the sectors. Ideally, its impacts will be felt across the board.
Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy
11. Based on the above project objectives, PRSC II was classified as a sectoral adjustment
credit (SECAC) at a meeting convened by the Bank-wide PRSC Working Group, in
accordance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001. According to Bank policy,
the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01
'Environmental Assessment' (EA) apply to this Credit. Because the concept document was
prior to January 2002, 01) 4.30 is applicable, and would be triggered in the event of land
acquisition or population displacement. Since the Credit will support rural development
through the development of action plans in key 'fili6res' such as cotton and horticulture, OP
4.09, Pest Management and Annex C of BP 4.01 may also apply. In accordance with OP
4.01, the Credit was categorized as a B without a separate EA. An environmental analysis
consistent with the requirements OP 4.01and OD 8.60 is annexed to the Credit Program
Document. In accordance with the Bank's revised disclosure policy, this environmental
analysis is being disclosed through the World Bank InfoShop, and in Burkina Faso, prior to
the appraisal of the credit. The Annex may be revised following the appraisal mission in
order to reflect any changes in the provisions for ensuring compliance with environmental
and social safeguards.
Key Safeguard Issues
12. The potential environmental and social impacts of PRSC 11 are those resulting from its
sectoral coverage. Such impacts that relate primarily to the investments in education, health,
and rural development are not expected to be of a great magnitude, nor would be irreversible.
3


﻿At this stage these potential environmental and social can only be described in generic terms.
Possible adverse effects associated with investments in education infrastructure could result
from the selection of sites for construction, and in particular from the design and location of
sanitary facilities for schools. As far as investments in health services are concerned, the
handling and disposal of medical wastes constitute the key environmental aspects that require
particular attention.
13. For rural development operations, particular attention will need to be paid to those
community-based investments that may have adverse potential environmental impacts.
Pesticide use will be subject to Bank requirements on Pest Management (OP.409 and Annex
C of BP 4.01). When necessary, an environmental management plan or a medical waste
management plan (for health-related activities) will be produced (cost and institutional
arrangement for implementation) and implemented in order to ensure that sensitive
ecological areas (natural habitats and critical natural habitats) are avoided, that pest
management procedures are in place, and that resettlement action plans are prepared, in the
event of land acquisition or loss of access to resources. EA focal points will be created within
each of the participating ministries in order to help implement these measures.
Borrower Readiness for Addressing Safeguard Issues
14. Like many other IDA countries, Burkina Faso prepared a National Environmental
Assessment Plan (NEAP) in the early 1990's. However, the Burkina NEAP did not get
translated into a coherent investment program that might have included capacity building
components. This resulted in delays in the establishment of the regulatory framework and
low capacity in some areas of environmental management, especially, environmental impact
assessment. The current regulatory framework for environmental management of the country
is the result of a slow but steady development of environmental laws, including a land law, a
forestry law, and a mining law, as discussed below.
15. In compliance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs and OD 8.60, the preparation of
PRSC II provided the opportunity to ascertain the readiness of the country to apply EA to
development projects. The results of this assessment that focuses on the institutional and
technical capacity of the Government agencies involved in the oversight of EA issues are
provided below.
16. Legal and Regulatory Framework. Most environmental policies and practices in Burkina
Faso are based on the Environmental Law enacted in 1997. Articles 17-24 of this law
describe the conditions under which an EA of development activities is required, and the
procedures to be followed in preparing EA studies. Typically, the law requires that any
development activity that is likely to generate significant negative environmental impacts be
subject to an environmental impact assessment, and that this assessment be cleared by the
Ministry of Environment. The law also requires public consultation to be held with affected
parties/communities to discuss the potential impacts and their mitigation. The existence of a
comprehensive legal and regulatory framework that makes provisions for EA does not mean,
however, that EA requirements are currently complied with whenever necessary. In fact, the
implementation decree that provides the guidelines for complying with the EA regulations
have been enacted only in early June 2001.
4


﻿17. Institutional and Administrative Issues. EA is under the responsibility of the directorate
general of environmental protection (DGPE), Ministry of Environment and Waler. DGPE is
composed of two sub-units, including (i) the directorate of pollution prevention and
sanitation, and (ii) the directorate of urban amenities; the former is responsible for ensuring
compliance with EA regulations. The national council for environmental management
(CONAGESE) also hosts a small unit that deals with EA. In practice, the current institutional
arrangement does not provide enough clarity in the delineation of responsibilities between
CONAGESE and DGPE.
18. In particular, it is not clear who provides technical support, who has the enforcement
mandate on the ground, arid who clears the EA studies when these are prepared. The long
overdue National Conference of CONAGESE (the executive body of CONAGESE) will
finally take place in April 2002. Among other things, this conference will clarify the
institutional mandate, role, and responsibility of CONAGESE and DGPE (and possibly other
institutions) in the enforcement of EA regulations. The recommendations of this conference
will therefore provide the national institutional framework for guidance, enforcement, and
compliance with EA requirements. It is this framework that will guide the integration of
environmental and social safeguards in the implementation of PRSC II.
19. Technical Capacity. Both DGPE and CONAGESE are short in personnel as far as
enforcing EA requirements is concerned. Not all the staff received formal training in EA, but
since the adoption of the Environmental Law in 1997, some capacity building efforts through
on-the-job training and workshops (within and outside the country) have taken place. The
Bank has contributed to this effort through the Mining Capacity Building and Environmental
Management Project, as has Denmark through a technical assistance program designed to
support the Ministry of Environment and Water.
20. The Dutch Embassy is currently supporting a set of activities geared toward institutional
and technical capacity strengthening in EA. During the first year of this technical assistance
project, the focus was on helping the Ministry of Environment and Water enact the
implementation decrees necessary to make EA an effective tool for development planning.
The development of technical skills at both central and decentralized levels, consultation and
public participation in EA, and strategic EA are to be covered in subsequent years. However,
discussions with both DGPE and CONAGESE show that much remains to be (lone in order
to upgrade and expand the expertise for EA work in these two institutions.
Arrangements for Borrower to Address Safeguard Issues
21. Despite noticeable achievements in the above-mentioned activities, the assessment
conducted during the pre-appraisal mission concluded that the enforcement of EA procedures
is still far from being a reality. In addition to the fact that the implementation decree has been
adopted only recently, there seems to be three main obstacles to effective enforcement of, and
compliance with EA requirements. These include (i) lack of awareness among public and
private operators, (ii) low technical capacity of the agencies responsible for enforcing EA
requirements, and (iii) duplication and unclear mandates of these agencies.
22. Based on these weaknesses, an agreement has been reached with the Ministry of Water
and Environment to take a number of measures that would improve the enforcement of EA
5


﻿requirements in the implementation of the public investment program, in particular in the
sectors covered by PRSC II. These measures include:
(i)   Preparing a three-year capacity building plan for EA;
(ii)   Establish small EA units, at minimum in the ministries covered by PRSC 11 (i.e.,
Education, Health, and Agriculture and Livestock). These units will help screen
sectoral investments for the integration of environmental and social safeguards
when necessary with technical and regulatory oversight from DGPE and
CONAGESE). Environmental management plans (EMPS) will be financed by the
investing sector/ministry, but the latter may benefit from technical support from
other ministries, or specialized public or non public institutions;
(iii)  Clarify the mandates and responsibilities of CONAGESE and DGPE in those
areas pertaining to EA compliance and enforcement (will be done through the up-
coming first national conference of CONAGESE);
(iv)  Hold a workshop to share and disseminate the content of national EA procedures
and World Bank environmental and social safeguards in order to make it easier
for the ministries involved (and other ministries involved in future PRSCs) to
comply with these procedures and safeguards; and
(v)   Prepare technical guidelines for sector- or activity-specific EAs.
23. Of the above measures, (i) will be completed by the time PRSC II is appraised. Measures
(ii) and (iii) are to be completed before Credit effectiveness, whereas measure (iv) and (v)
and on-the-job and formal training will take place during the implementation of PRSC II and
the preparation and implementation of PRSC 1II. Benchmarks for both PRSC II and PRSC Ill
will include indicators associated with these EA capacity development activities.
24. In addition to the above measures, it has been agreed that in the short-term the main
burden of complying with environmental and social safeguards (as required by Bank
Policies) will fall on on-going IDA operations. Of the three sectors covered by PRSC II,
Agriculture and Livestock is the one most likely to generate environmental and social
impacts that could require sustained attention. Fortunately, the Decentralized Rural
Development APL that was launched this year has an environmental management plan
(EMP) that covers the saFeguard aspects raised above. The HIV/AIDS MAP also has a
medical waste management plan that constitutes a useful guide for relevant investments in
the health sector.
25. Finally, the Basic Education Operation has included an environmental analysis that will
provide a framework for mitigating any adverse environmental aspects that could result form
the investments planned under PRSC II. Ideally, other on-going IDA operations (e.g., Urban
Environment, Private Sector Development, Transport) could be included in this plan for
supporting safeguard compliance with safeguards in sector-specific operations. This will
provide an efficient tool for meeting EA requirements while buying time to development the
technical and institutional capacity needed to scale-up EA enforcement and compliance
sector-wide.
26. The workshop on examination of the (Bank and national) EA frameworks discussed in
activity (iv) above will provide the opportunity to adopt an integrated plan that builds on the
resources and efforts allocated by these on-going IDA operations to the implementation of
their EMPs. Both GDPE and CONAGESE will be responsible for monitoring the
6


﻿implementation of the capacity building action plan (activity (i) above), and the EMPs of the
on-going IDA EMPs. A detailed monitoring plan based on the outputs of both the capacity
building action plan and the relevant EMPs will be developed at a later stage (after appraisal
of the Credit). The environmental annex will be updated accordingly.
Enforcement and Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguards under PRSC
II
27. The World Bank Safeguard Unit and the Project preparation core team reached the
conclusion that long-term capacity building of the national agencies in environmental impact
assessment is the best avenue for assuring effective compliance with Bank safeguards in this
PRSC and coming ones. This approach is consistent with the nature of the constraints facing
Burkina Faso in its efforts to ensure enforcement and compliance with its own EA
requirements. It is important to mention that the focus on capacity building has some
implication for expectations (from the Bank and other stakeholders) regarding the level of
compliance with Bank safeguards to be achieved during PRSC II.
28. In particular, given the low technical and institutional capacity in the country, the
performance criteria for judging the compliance with safeguards should focus on indicators
that deal directly with capacity development. In principle, the sectoral activities to be
supported by PRSC II are not likely to generate significant and irreversible adverse impacts
on the human environment. If in any event, activities in one of the sectors were to result in
any noticeable adverse impacts on the human environment (biophysical or social), any efforts
will be made to mitigate such effects.
29. Predicting the nature and extent of the environmental and social changes that could result
from a proposed activity is a complex task that requires qualified multidisciplinary teams,
technical guidelines, reasonably accurate and updated information about the site conditions,
among other things. Such conditions are only partially met in the current context of Burkina
because of the capacity constraints mentioned above. Technical constraint of the borrower
should be should be kept in mind while making final judgment on the performance,
responsibility, and accountability of all parties involved in the implementation of the
mitigation measures. As a result, compliance and enforcement of the environmental and
social safeguards are likely to be partially implemented under PRSC II.
30. Attention will be paid io the monitoring of the direct environmental and social impacts of
PRSC II mainly through IDA investment programs that are underway in the country. Most of
these programs are classified as category B projects, with EMPs. The task of ensuring
compliance with environmental and social safeguards during PRSC II will primarily be
incumbent upon the ongoing operations in those sectors covered by PRSC II, that is, Rural
Development, Education and Health. Because mitigation measures constitute a key element
of any EMP, these operations will comply de facto with Bank environmental and social
safeguards when they implement their respective EMP. Making sure that the EMP has been
correctly funded is a prerequisite for achieving this compliance objective. The team will work
with the Task Team Leaders of these operations to help monitor a smooth implementation of
the EMPs. One of the objectives of the planned workshop on Bank and national EA
requirements is to develop a sound and consolidated plan for implementing the EMPs in a
way that creates maximum synergy and economies of scales in the efforts to ensure
compliance with environment and social safeguards.
7


