Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3691 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 16, 2002 
CREDIT NUMBER 3691 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 2002, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 26, 2002 (the Letter of 
Development Policy) from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), 
Page  2
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
         (e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program 
Page  3
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“BCEAO” means 
Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest
;
(b)
“CAMEG” means 
Centrale d’Achat des Médicaments Essentiels Génériques, 
a 
national generic drug company established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
“CFAA” means the Country Financial Accountability Assessment conducted by 
the Borrower, the Association and other donors, dated December 2001;
(d)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the period from January 1 to December 31; 
(f)
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower's letter referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(g)
“MEBA” means 
Ministère de l’Enseignement de Base et de l’Alphabétisation, 
the Borrower’s ministry of basic education;
(h)
“MTEF” means the Borrower's medium-term expenditure framework;
(i)
“PRSP” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, dated June 
2000, as updated and amended;
(j)
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 
(1986); and
(k)
“SOFITEX” means 
Société des Fibres Textiles,
 a state-owned cotton producing 
and manufacturing company established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
Page  4
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-eight million one hundred thousand
 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
28,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in BCEAO, a deposit account in 
Euros on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been used 
to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the Association 
shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
Page  5
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
November 1 and May 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and 
November 1 commencing November 1, 2012 and ending May 1, 2042. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on May 1, 2022, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as determined by 
the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level established annually by 
the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the 
review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification referred to 
in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment 
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
Section 2.09. The Director General of Cooperation at the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence to 
ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect.
(b)
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  7
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided for in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of the 
Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister in charge of Finance
Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
03 BP 7008
Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile:
SEGEGOUV
5555
(226) 31-27-15
 
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By
/s/  Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/  Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
Page  9
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
Page  10
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party); 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment 
to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower 
(a)
The Borrower has adopted a budget bill for 2002 based on ceilings set with 
reference to the 2002-2004 MTEF, satisfactory to the Association, and in accordance with the 
priorities set out in the PRSP, as set out in paragraph 68 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted Program Budgets consistent with PRSP objectives in 
all Ministries, including the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Basic Education, 
the Ministry of Secondary, Tertiary Education and Scientific Research, the Ministry of Health, the 
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization and the 
Ministry of Justice and the Promotion of Human Rights, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 68 
of the Letter of Development Policy;
(c)
the Presidential Decree No. 2002-110/PRES/PM/MEF, dated March 20, 2002, 
aimed at revising the procurement code has been enacted, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
69 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(d)
the Borrower has completed the CFAA and presented an action plan to 
implement the recommendations of the CFAA to the Association, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 70 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
(e)
the Borrower’s Council of Ministers has adopted the draft budget execution 
reports for FY 1999 and 2000 and submitted such reports to the 
Chambre des Comptes
, pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 71 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(f)
the Borrower has prepared the list of poverty indicators to be used as 
benchmarks for the monitoring and evaluation of the PRSP, pursuant to the provision of paragraph 
72 of the Letter of Development Policy;
Page  11
(g)
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 73 of the Letter of Development Policy, 
the Presidential Decree No. 2001-528/PRES/PM/MEBA, dated October 4, 2001, has been enacted, 
defining the following items:
(i)
the scope of decentralization in the education sector, and the role and 
responsibilities at each level of the system;
(ii)
the institutional changes needed in the context of decentralization in the 
education sector and the volume of activities to be carried out within the 
Borrower’s ten-year education plan; and
(iii)
the reorganization of the units and services of MEBA; 
(h)
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 74 of the Letter of Development Policy, 
the Borrower has adopted a circular extending the number of preventive health services free of 
charge;
(i)
pursuant to the provisions of the joint 
Arrêté Ministériel
 No. 02-09 and No. 
02-010/MCPEA/MS, issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Enterprise Promotion and Handicrafts, 
dated February 8, 2002, the Borrower has adopted measures to reduce profit margins on essential 
generic drugs sold by CAMEG and private wholesalers to a maximum of 25 percent, as set out in 
paragraph 74 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(j)
the Borrower has adopted Presidential Decree No. 
2001-764/PRES/PM/MCPE/MEF/AGRI opening up two new cotton zones, in which the private 
sector is allowed to invest, as set out in paragraph 75 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(k)
the Borrower has adopted a Presidential Decree No. 
2001-763/PRES/PM/MCPE/MEF/AGRI, ending the monopoly of SOFITEX, pursuant to 
paragraph 75 of the Letter of Development Policy.
