Report No. PID8739
Project Name                     India-Third Technician Education Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Vocational Education & Training
Project ID                       INPE50658
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE
DEVELOPMENT & PROJECT STATES
Department of Secondary Education and
Higher Education
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi 110001, India
Contact Person: Prof. Ashoka Chandra, Special Secretary
Tel: 91-11-3381097
Fax: 91-11-3386659
Email: achandra@sb.nic.in
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 27, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Liberalization of the Indian economy, its gradual integration with the
world economy and rapid transformation into a knowledge based society are
increasing the demand for a well-trained workforce -- a workforce that is
not only literate and has mastered specific skills, but is also able to
acquire new skills and knowledge independently. The pace of change and
the intensity of competition are both likely to increase as the economy
continues to reform.The northeastern states, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar
Islands, with comparatively small populations, have already achieved rates
of primary and secondary school enrollments and literacy that are much
higher than the national average. However, despite the existence of
better educated labor force and considerable natural resources, these
states/UT have not been able to benefit much from the ongoing economic
reforms due to their location disadvantage, difficult terrain, extremely
low population densities, and lack of competent technical manpower. Jammu
& Kashmir too has not been able to exploit its full economic potential due
to inadequate technical manpower and disturbed conditions. A significant
proportion of the population continues to live below the poverty line.
Most of these states have a very high percentage of people belonging to
various tribal communities and the minorities. The Government of India
has recently announced major schemes for the economic and industrial
development of these states. The success of these investments will depend
on, amongst other things, the availability of quality technical manpower
in adequate numbers.The main sector issues identified in a Bank's sector
study (nearing publication) on Scientific and Technical Manpower
Development in India are: (a) over-centralization and lack of autonomy
and accountability of institutions; (b) resource constraint and wastage;



(c) poor quality and relevance; (d) poor technology/ infrastructure
support, and (e) limited access and regional disparity (equity). Within
the basic thrust of poverty alleviation, the project will address these
issues with specific reference to the technician education system in the
project states.
2. Objectives
The project will assist the industrially and economically underdeveloped,
and geographically remote states of the northeastern region (Arunachal
Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura), Jammu & Kashmir,
and the union territory (UT) of Andaman & Nicobar Islands to expand and
improve the quality and efficiency of technician (polytechnic) education
to meet the specific economic needs of each state. The project will also
aim at increasing access of some disadvantaged sections of society (women,
scheduled tribes, minorities, rural youth) to technician education and
training.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience with the implementation of program of education
reform and the design of external assistance strategies to these programs
has resulted in its becoming one of the most important sources of
technical support and external funding in India's progress in Technical
and Vocational Education and Training. In the last ten years, the Bank
has funded four projects in this sector, including two highly successful
Technician Education Projects, which covered 19 other States and Union
Territories. The discipline attending to design, implementation and
monitoring of an investment project assisted by the World Bank is highly
valued by both the central and state governments and the institutions
themselves. This project will provide the opportunity for continuation of
the Bank's international experience in this sector, with special attention
to the needs of women, and tribal and minority communities.
4. Description
The project covering a total of 12 existing and 6 new polytechnics in 8
project states will have three components: (i) Developing/Expanding
capacity to provide increased access to technician education; (ii)
Enhancing quality of education to produce better trained technicians; and
(iii) Improving efficiency through better planning, administration and
utilization of the system and increasing its responsiveness to emerging
labor market needs.Capacity development/expansion will be achieved by: (a)
establishing six new co-educational polytechnics and a skill development
center, (b) strengthening twelve existing polytechnics and introducing new
programs, (c) introducing continuing education and non-formal training
programs for industry and community, and (d) providing student and faculty
housing. Quality enhancement will be achieved by: (a) modernizing
laboratories and workshops, (b) developing/revising curricula to meet
labor market needs as well as imparting entrepreneurial skills, (c)
improving staffing and imparting staff training, (d) increasing
utilization of learning resources and media, and (e) promoting interaction
with industry/ community. Efficiency improvement will be achieved by: (a)
establishing or strengthening state boards/ councils/ directorates and
other support units dealing with technician education to provide better
monitoring and guidance, (b) conducting research studies for systemic
reforms, (c) instituting computer-based project and financial management
systems, (d) providing autonomy with accountability to polytechnics, (e)
-2 -



networking with other institutions/ organizations, and (f) enhancing
state-level policy support for technician education.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               12.80
IDA                      66.36
Total Project Cost       79.16
6. Implementation
This will be a multi-state project in the state sector with coordination
and guidance provided by the Department of Secondary Education and Higher
Education in the Ministry of Human Resource Development of Government of
India. The existing National Project Directorate (NPD), established in
the Ministry will be responsible for implementation of the project through
the project states. The NPD will be assisted by a National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU). The NPIU will work closely with the State
Project Implementation Units (SPIUs) established in each of the project
states.  At the state level, the state secretaries of education will be
responsible for facilitating project implementation.    The polytechnic
principals will be responsible for project implementation at institutional
level. The primary responsibility for project monitoring will lie with the
SPIUs, NPIU and on a broader basis with the Government of India and IDA.
The project MIS will include elements like indicators on academic and
physical progress, a listing of innovative activities undertaken by the
institutions, key performance indicators, and the progress made by the
institutions in civil works, procurement of equipment, books and
furniture, internal revenue generation, staff development, continuing
education, community/industry-institution interaction, staff positions,
and expenditure on various items. Progress towards the achievement of the
project development objectives will be measured through key performance
indicators agreed between the Government of India, project States and IDA.
7. Sustainability
Because of the small number of polytechnics in most states and complete
absence of polytechnics in two states at present, incremental operating
costs due to project implementation will be substantial. The resulting
financial strain on the state finances would be mitigated to some extent
through internal revenue generation, keeping the operating costs as low as
possible, and through participation of industry and community in financing
some programs. Sustainability of project gains is likely due to committed
state support, autonomy to be granted to polytechnics, staff training and
availability of qualified staff, and cost recovery through increased fees,
consultancy earnings and commercial use of facilities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design is based primarily on the experience gained from the
two Technician Education projects, which have been rated highly
satisfactory in project outcomes. The policy reforms proposed and agreed
are based on the successful interventions made in some progressive
states. These include institutional autonomy, program flexibility,
greater female participation, industry-institute interaction, internal
revenue generation, etc.    It also incorporates the recommendations made
for major reforms in technical education in the Bank's sector study on
Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India. Some of the
- 3-



recommendations of a recent Performance Audit Report of the Bank's
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) on Investment in Technical and
Vocational Education in India are also taken note of in the project
design. The experience of the Technician Education Projects in India
indicated that an early consensus on project scope and components through
micro planning at polytechnic level would accelerate project progress.
The design of the Third Technician Education Project is based on
detailed consultations and inputs from principals and faculty of all
existing project polytechnics and the Technical Teachers Training
Institutes. The states have planned to involve students, employers and
community in the implementation of the project from the very beginning.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed construction of 6 new polytechnics,
extension of 12 existing polytechnics on identified institutional lands is
not expected to raise any environmental concerns. During the design and
construction of the buildings, environment protection and pollution
control laws will be strictly adhered to.    The revised/new curricula and
training provided by the polytechnics is expected to raise environmental
awareness amongst students, local industry and community which will help
reduce environmental degradation. States have assured that land
identified for construction/extension of polytechnics does not involve
relocation and resettlement of people.
11. Contact Point:
Task Leader
Shashi K. Shrivastava, Senior Education Specialist,
New Delhi Office, The World Bank
70, Lodi Estate, New Delhi 110 003
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 91-11-4619491 (Ext 187) (at New Delhi)
Fax: 91-11-4619393
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 28, 2000.
- 4 -



