Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20298-IN
PROJEC T APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.9 Million (US$ 64.9 million equivalent)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
THIRD TECIHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
July 25, 2000
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2000)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)
INR 44.635 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0224 = INR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April l - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICTE                -      All India Council for Technical Education
A & N Islands        -      Andaman and Nicobar Islands
DEA                  -      Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DGS&D                -      Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DTE                  -      Directorate of Technical Education
EdCIL                -      Educational Consultants India Ltd.
FMS                  -      Financial Management System
GOI                  -      Government of India
IBRD                 -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICIIC                -      Industry/Community - Institute Interaction Cell
IDA                  -      International Development Association
IRG                  -      Internal Revenue Generation
JKPCC                -      Jammu and Kashmir Project Construction Corporation
LACI                 -      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRUC                 -      Leaming Resource Utilization Center
MHHRD                -      Miristry of lhuman Resource Development
.MIS                 -      Management Information System
TNCB                 -      National Competitive Bidding
-NPD                 -      National Project Directorate
:NPIU                -      National Project Implementation Unit
PFMS                 -      Project Financial Management System
PIP                  -      Project Implementation Plan
PMR                  -      Project Management Report
PWD                  -      Public Works Department
SDR                  -      Special Drawing Rights
SOE                  -      Statement of Expenditure
SPIU                 -      State Project Implementation Unit
TTTI                 -      Tec:hnical Teachers' Training Institute
lUT                  -      Union Territory
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Emmnanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader:   Shashi Kant Shrivastava



INDIA
THIRD TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Plroject Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
]L. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Govermment strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. P'roject Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      6
3. Benefits and target population                                                     7
41. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Froject Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          14
2. Financial                                                                         15
3. Technical                                                                         15
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Environmental                                                                     18
6. Social                                                                            19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    22
2. Critical risks                                                                    22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    24



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           24
2. Other                                                                             24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        43
Annex 4: Economic/ Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                        44
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           72
Annex 11: Tribal Development                                                            74
MAP(S)
0



INDIA
Third Technician Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASED
Date: July 25, 2000                               Team Leader: Shashi K. Shrivastava
Country Mtanager/Director: Edwin Lim              Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project ID: P050658                                Sector(s): EV - Vocational Education & Training
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan         i C'redit       C Granl.        [ Guarantee    L Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (LJS$m): 64.9
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financin Plan:     Source                                    Loc;al    F__or__ ____
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                            57.90           7.00          64.90
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA                                            15.20           0.00          15.20
Total:                                                         73.10           7.00          80.10
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF [NDIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT & PROJECT STATES
Department of Secondaiy Education and Higher Education
Address: Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi 110001, India
Contact Pe:rson: Prof. Ashoka Chandra, Special Secretary
Tel: 91-11-3381097                 Fax: 91-11-3386659                Email: achandra@sb.nic.in
Other Agency(ies):
NATIONAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Address: C-91, South Extension II, New Delhi 110 049, India
Contact Pe:rson: Prof R.K. Mani, Central Project Advisor
Tel: 91-11-6257646/6252347              Fax: 91-11-6257023                 Email: npiu@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYYUS$M):
FY           2001        2002         2003       2004        2005         2006
Annual     4.9          11.4 _       17.0        18.1        12.2         1.3
Curnulative    4.9          16.3        33.3        51.4        63.6         64.9
Project imiplementation period: 2000-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
XS PAD - on, - ea Ma-., 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will assist the industrially and economically underdeveloped, and geographically remote states
of the northeastern region (Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura), Jammu
& Kashmir, and the Union Territory (UT) of Andaman & Nicobar Islands to expand capacity and improve
the quality and efficiency of technician (polytechnic) education to meet the specific economic needs of each
state. The project will also aim at increasing access of some disadvantaged sections of society (women,
scheduled tribes and rural youth) to technician education and training.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
At impact/outcome level
*   Effectiveness and stage of implementation of proposed systemic reforms in technician (polytechnic)
education in each state
*   Percentage of polytechnic graduates employed/self-employed in their field of training within one year of
graduation
*   Average time taken for completing polytechnic diploma
*   Percentage of cost recovery through internal revenue generation
*   Nature and level of interaction with local community and industry
At output level
*   Increase in number of student places and demand for the same
*   Reorganization/reorientation of programs according to market needs (including development and
revision of curricula)
-   Percentage of women and tribal students enrolled in polytechnics
*   Percentage of teachers and staff trained
? Level of modernization of libraries, laboratories and workshops
*   Number of beneficiaries of continuing education programs and community services organized by the
polytechnics
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241            Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/15/98
Liberalization of the Indian economy, its gradual integration with the world economy and rapid
transformation into a knowledge-based society are increasing the demand for a well-trained workforce -- a
workforce that is not only literate and has mastered specific skills, but is also able to acquire new skills and
knowledge independently. The pace of change and the intensity of competition are both likely to increase as
the economy continues to reform.
The northeastern states, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar Islands, with comparatively small populations,
have already achieved rates of primary and secondary school enrollments and literacy that are much higher
than the national average. However, despite the existence of a better educated labor force and considerable
natural resources, these states/UT have not been able to benefit much from the ongoing economic reforms
-2 -



in India due to their location disadvantage, difficult terrain, extremely low population densities, and lack of
competent technical manpower. A significant proportion of the population continues to live below the
poverty line. Jammu & Kashmir too has not been able to exploit its full economic potential due to
inadequacy of technical manpower and the prevailing disturbed conditions. Most of these states have a
very high percentage of people belonging to varibus tribal communities and the minorities. Lack of
opportunities for proper training and employment is resulting in frustration amongst the youth. The
Government of India has recently announced major schemes for economic and industrial development of
these states. The success of these investments will depend on, amongst other things, the availability of
quality technical manpower in adequate numbers.
The project will assist the state governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura, and union territory (UT) administration of Andaman & Nicobar
Islands in developing quality technicians to meet their emerging manpower requirements of upcoming
industry, infrastructure and growing service sectors. In addition, the 18 project polytechnics will develop
close linkages with local community to train rural artisans, educated unemployed and school dropouts and
to help transfer appropriate technologies to villages. Such community interaction will enhance
employability and income generation capacity of urban and rural poor in the locality.
The project will help to introduce several basic policy reforms in the existing technician education system
in the states. The reforms will focus on program quality and relevance, flexibility, institutional autonomy,
cost recovery, close interaction with local industry and community, increased participation of women and
tribal communities, provision of formal and non-formal continuing education programs, and efficiency of
system management. Such reforms, introduced successfully in other states during the earlier two
Technician Education Projects, are expected to serve as models for the entire higher education sector in due
course.
More specifically, the project is in accordance with the following elements of the Bank's current Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India: (a) increase the efficiency and responsiveness of technical training
institutions to the changing labor market - this will be the primary focus of the project; (b) support to
key areas of policy reforms - the program aims at systemic reforms to improve effectiveness and efficiency
of the technical education subsector in the project states; (c) focus on poverty alleviation activities - the
project will promote greater participation of women, tribal communities and other disadvantaged groups in
technician education; all project polytechnics will also work for the local community with effective formal
and non-formal programs for technical training of the rural and urban poor; and (d) Bank support for
better infrastructure - the project aims at significant improvement in the quality of training of technical
manpower which will be required for establishment, operation and maintenance of infrastructure facilities
in the states.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues identified in a Bank's sector study (nearing publication) on Scientific and Technical
Manpower Development in India are: (a) over-centralization and lack of autonomy and accountability of
institutions; (b) resource constraint and wastage; (c) poor quality and relevance; (d) poor technology/
infrastructure support; and (e) limited access and regional disparity (equity). With specific reference to the
technician education system in the project states, the related sector issues are:
Over- centralization, and lack of autonomy and accountability of institutions: Over-centralization in
decision making has resulted in increased bureaucracy, inadequacy of resources, the system's inability to
respond to changing labor market needs, disinterested faculty and very slow decision-making processes.
- 3 -



Polytechnic principals have little authority or funds for even minor repairs or maintenance of buildings and
equipment. In the absence of a systematic performance evaluation mechanism, there is lack of proper
accountability in the institutions.
Resource constraints and wastage (low efficiency): Existing polytechnics have very limited financial,
physical and human resources. Even the lirnited resources are not put to full use. A large number of seats
remain unutilized due to delays in admission and examinations, and high dropout and failure rates. A
significant percentage of graduates do not find employment within a year of graduation. There is little
interaction with industry or community for resource sharing and utilization. The cost recovery from
students and other possible users is negligible. State regulations do not provide any incentive to the
institutions to mobilize additional resources, and any revenue earned by them gets adjusted against their
approved allocation from the government.
Poor quality and relevance of technician manpower: Inadequate training of polytechnic teachers with little
industrial exposure, lack of learning resources, absence of self-learning facilities, outdated curricula and
rigidity in program design, and obsolete equipment and instructional facilities have led to poor quality
output from the existing polytechnics. There is also a growing mismatch between labor market needs and
the competencies being developed in polytechnic graduates.
Poor technology! infrastructure support: In most polytechnics, physical facilities are obsolete, inadequate,
or nonexistent. Library facilities are outdated. Many polytechnics do not have minimal comnmunication
links or computers. Some do not have even basic facilities like assured water and power supply. Some
polytechnics are functioning from rented buildings.
Inadequate access to technician education: Access to technician education is very limited in the project
states; two of the states (Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh) do not have any facilities for technician education,
while others, except Jammu & Kashmir, have just one or two polytechnics. Most of the polytechnics offer
programs in traditional disciplines of civil, mechanical, and electrical engineering and provide lirmited
training facilities by way of continuing education programs and other services.
Government strategy: In 1986, the Government of India (GOI) formulated a National Policy on
Education (NPE) which resulted in a Ten-year Technician Education Program for improving the technician
education and training system. To achieve this, GOI formulated and implemented the First and Second
Technician Education Projects (1990-99) covering over 500 polytechnics in 17 major states and 2 union
territories with the assistance of IDA. A National Policy Initiative for Technician Education, which has
recently been approved by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, includes the following new
initiatives: (a) building partnership between institutions and industry; (b) delegating certain
decision-making powers and responsibility from state governments to institutions and thereby bringing
about a relaxation in the rather severe control and centralization that exists in the current context; (c)
awarding a high degree of autonomy to deserving institutions; (d) introducing a high degree of flexibility in
institutional program offerings and management; (e) attempting a market-driven approach in curriculum
design; (f) utilizing institutional resources for a larger spectrum of academic services beyond formal
academic programs; (g) encouraging institutions to engage in income generation and resources mobilization
activities; and (h) involving institutions in the development process of the community.
For development of technical manpower in the project states, the Central Government has established the
North East Regional Institute of Science & Technology (NERIST) in Arunachal Pradesh, a Regional
College of Engineering in Jammu & Kashmir and two polytechnics in Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Seats
are also reserved in professional colleges for training of students from the project states in other parts of
- 4 -



the country. Tribal students undertaking technical courses also receive scholarship from the Central
Government. Seats are reserved for employment of scheduled tribes in all government and public sector
jotis.
All project states have formulated plans for developing technical manpower and have indicated their
willingness to accept systemic reforms suggested by the Govermnent of India and by the Bank's sector
study.
The Central Govermment has recently announced major investment programs for the northeastern states,
Jarnmu & Kashmir, and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, which have all lagged behind in economic and
industrial development due to various reasons.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Some of the sector issues will be addressed using the following strategies.
(i) Strategies for enhancing access to technician education in remote regions include establishing new
institutions, increasing present intakes, introducing new programs, and introducing continuing education
programs for industry and community.
(ii) Strategies for enhancing quality and relevance include restructuring/developing curricula to suit labor
market needs, imparting faculty and staff training, increasing availability of learning resources to students,
providing computing and Internet facilities and access to net courseware, enhancing use of media in
teaching-learning process, introducing program flexibility, developing partnership with industry, expanding
cormmunity services and networking with other institutions/organizations.
(iii) Strategies for decentralizing decision making and improving institutional accountability include
providing functional autonomy to all project polytechnics, experimenting with new models of institutional
governance and financing (e.g., through a Board of Governors) and introducing a system of performance
audit.
(iv) Strategies for adequate provision of infrastructures include strengthening of existing polytechnics,
modernizing laboratories and workshops, constructing hostels, faculty and staff residences, providing
modem communication facilities, and instituting a system of maintenance of buildings and equipment to
increase their useful life.
(v) Strategies for increasing internal efficiency include establishing/strengthening state
boards/councils/directorates with well-trained manpower and computer-based data management systems,
better training and counseling of students, increasing employment opportunities through linkages with local
indlustry and developing entrepreneurial competence in students, increasing use of institutional resources for
community services, sharing and optimizing resources through networking with other
institutions/organizations. Measures for enhancing cost recovery include increasing fees charged to
students, enhancing institutional income through internal revenue generation activities like consultancy,
testing and calibration, etc., and instituting a wide range of policy reforms to encourage mobilization of
additional resources by polytechnics.
-5 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project covering a total of 12 existing and 6 new polytechnics in the eight project states will have
three components: (i) Developing/ expanding capacity to provide increased access to technician
education; (ii) Enhancing quality of education to produce better trained technicians; and (iii) Improving
efficiency through better planning, administration and utilization of the system and increasing its
responsiveness to emerging labor market needs.
Capacity Development/Expansion will be achieved by: (a) establishing six new co-educational
polytechnics and a skill development center, (b) strengthening twelve existing polytechnics and introducing
new programs, (c) introducing continuing education and non-formal training programs for industry and
community, and (d) providing student and faculty housing facilities.
Quality Enhancement will be achieved by: (a) modemizing existing laboratories and workshops, (b)
developing/revising curricula to meet labor market needs as well as imparting entrepreneurial skills, (c)
improving staffing and imparting staff training, (d) increasing utilization of learning resources and media,
and (e) promoting interaction with industry and community.
Efficiency Improvement will be achieved by: (a) establishing/strengthening state
boards/councils/directorates and other support units dealing with technician education to provide better
planning, monitoring and guidance, (b) conducting research studies for systemic reforms, (c) instituting
computer-based project and financial management systems, (d) providing substantial academic, financial
and administrative autonomy with accountability to project polytechnics, (e) networking of polytechnics
with other institutions/organizations, and (f) enhancing state-level policy support for technician education.
Capacity Development/ Expansion    Vocational         48.18       60.2     40.52       62.5
Education &
Training
Quality Enhancement                Vocational         22.85       28.5     17.99       27.7
Education &
Training
Efficiency Improvement             Vocational          9.05       11.3      6.37        9.8
Education &
Training
Total Project Costs                   80.08      100.0     64.88      100.0
Total Financing Required                    80.08     100.0      64.88     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Creating opportunities for technical training of women and tribal communities to increase their
eaming capacity;
*   Introducing structural and academic flexibility into all programs offered by polytechnics to make
them responsive to market demands, and to offer services as needed by industry and community;
-6-



*   Promoting self-employment by developing entrepreneurial and communication skills in students
through curricular interventions;
* Developing manpower for key areas of economic growth (e.g., information technology);
*   Granting greater autonomy with accountability to polytechnics;
*   Promoting industry and community participation in planning and management of polytechnics;
* Promoting cost recovery and internal revenue generation by polytechnics;
*   Establishing afaculty development system to attract and retain good quality teachers;
*  Networking o] institutions for sharing of expertise, educational resources and innovative ideas;
*   Encouraging participation of faculty in consultancy, continuing education and community service
programs;
*   Developing a suitable industry attachment/community services program for students and
counseling them for choice of courses and employment opportunities; and
*   Strengthening State Departments/Directorates and Boards of Technical Education/polytechnics to
include computer-based planning, management and administration of the system for improved
efficiency.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target population
*   Students completing 10/12 grade, who wish to develop specialized skills for employment; about
8000 regular students will be enrolled in project polytechnics and over 2500 students will graduate
every year after all new programs are introduced;
*   Tribals and women from low and middle-income families will constitute majority of students;
*   The continuing education and non-formal training programs will primarily cater to the needs of
youth (largely from rural and urban poor families); about 10,000 persons are expected to undergo
such training during the project period;
* The polytechnics will serve the needs of small and medium-scale industries and various government
departments through training of quality manpower, continuing education programs, and
consultancy services; and
*   Community service activities of the project polytechnics will be targeted to cover 8-10 villages or
about 500 poor households near each polytechnic during the project.
Benefits
*   The most important benefit is expected to be proper engagement of secondary school leavers in the
project states, whose talents are otherwise wasted in non-productive activities, often leading to law
and order problems in some of these states;
*   Based on tracer study data available from the Technician Education I and II Projects, the
incremental earnings of polytechnic graduates (over earnings of secondary school leavers) is likely
to be in the range of INR 2000-6000 per month; about 1500 additional students will graduate every
year from more market oriented programs;
*   It is expected that the rural youth and educated unemployed trained through non-formal programs
would obtain incremental monthly earnings of INR 1500;
*   The skills created in new and emerging technologies will contribute to economic and industrial
development of the project states, in particular, by attracting the private sector to invest in the
region and by enabling polytechnic graduates to start enterprises with high growth potential;
*   Women would enter technical workforce in significantly larger numbers;
*   Tribal youths trained in project polytechnics could seek employment in technical jobs in the central
- 7-



government, large industries and the public sector across the country, especially against positions
statutorily reserved for scheduled tribes; and
*   The general administration in project states could also benefit from the experience gained during
the project through institutional networking, computerization of admninistrative and financial
records, performance-based financing, transparent methods of procurement of civil
works/goods/services, and systematic project monitoring and evaluation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management/lmplementation
This will be a multi-state project in the state sector with coordination and guidance provided by the
Department of Secondary Education and Higher Education in the Ministry of Human Resource
Development of Govermnent of India. The existing National Project Directorate (NPD), established in the
Ministry for the implementation of the recently completed Technician Education Projects will have the
overall responsibility for coordinating the implementation of the project through the project states. The
NPD will be assisted by the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) established in the Educational
Consultants India Ltd (EdCIL). The NPIU will work closely with the State Project Implementation Units
(SPIUs) established in each of the project states. At the state level, the state secretaries of education,
assisted by the state directors of technicallhigher education will be responsible for facilitating project
implementation. The polytechnic principals will be responsible for project implementation at institutional
level. The project will be implemented in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)prepared
by the NPIU with inputs from the states and cleared with the GOI and IDA. The PIP will be reviewed by
the GOI and IDA and updated from time to time.
Project Monitoring
The primary responsibility for monitoring the project will lie with the SPIUs, NPIU and on a broader basis
with the Government of India and IDA. To enable effective monitoring, each of the institutions will prepare
progress reports on a project Management Information System (MIS) to be developed by the NPIU and
transfer this data through e-mail to the SPIU once in three months. The SPIU will collect information
institution-wise and send reports in the formats included in the MIS to the NPIU. The NPIU will, in
collaboration with the SPIUs, organize bi-annual, mid-term and need- based review exercises for IDA and
the Government of India.
The project MIS will include elements like indicators on academic and physical progress, a listing of
innovative activities undertaken by the institutions, key performance indicators, and the progress made by
the institutions in civil works, procurement of equipment, books and furniture, internal revenue generation,
staff development, continuing education, community/industry-institution interaction, staff positions, and
expenditure on various items. Progress towards the achievement of the project development objectives will
be measured through key performance indicators agreed between the Government of India, the project
States/UT and IDA.
The proposed monitoring and evaluation mechanisms improve upon the successful models developed during
the two technician education projects. These include periodic reviews by the state secretaries, the NPIU
and the NPD. The bi-annual joint reviews of GOI and IDA will generally cover all aspects the project with
special focus on achievements in quality components. These reviews will include visits to project
polytechnics and interaction with the students, teachers, employers and community representatives. The
mid-term review will provide an opportunity for mid-course evaluation and corrections, as needed. The
- 8 -



project will also support related research studies on various project components. Towards the closing stage
of the project, studies on the project impact will be supported by the project.
Project Financial Management System
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6. The project will be budgeted
under a single identifiable line item in the budget of the Ministry of Human Resource Development
(MI-[RD), GOI for the expenditure that has to be made at the central level, in the budget of the Ministry of
Home Affairs for expenditure relating to the UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and in the budgets of
the respective state governments for all the participating states. In the case of the Center, on approval of
budget by the Parliament, MHRD will release the funds requirement in installments every year to the bank
account of the Educational Consultants India Limited (EdCIL). EdCIL, which will make major payments
on behalf of the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), will advance a part of the funds to the NPIU
for the expenditure that has to be incurred by the NPIU. For the UT, the Ministry of Home Affairs will
allocate and release required project funds to the Project Implemenation Unit of the UT. At the state level,
on approval of the budget by the Legislature, the State Government will release these funds to their
respective SPIUs. The SPIU will incur expenditure through the Government treasury system and pass on a
part of the allocation to the institutions in the state that it oversees for the institutional level activities.
An integrated computerized financial management system will be developed for the project. The key tasks
that will be carried out to implement the integrated financial management system are: (a) appointment of a
Finance Professional at the NPIUand accounts personnel at the SPIUs to be completed by August 31,
2000; (b) procurement of hardware expected to be completed by January 31, 2001; (c) design, development
and installation of a Project Financial Management System (PFMS) software, expected to be completed by
February 28, 2001; and (d) training of the staff in the implementation of the PFMS, expected to be
completed by March 31, 2001. The PFMS is expected to be fully operational by April 1, 2001.
Disbursements: Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and would be converted to
the Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements after the successful implementation of the
comlputerized PFMS. The target date for this conversion is April 1, 2002.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$1.06 million equivalent (SDR 0.80
million) would cover eligible expenditure for implementing activities after October 1, 1999 based on a
Statement of Expenditure. Retroactive financing would support: (a) staff appointed at NPIU, SPIUs; (b)
key additional staff at the project polytechnics appointed against posts created for the new courses/new
polytechnics; (c) consultant services for procurement of goods, works, training and curriculum
development; (d) provision of housing, office equipment, furniture, computers and communication links and
operating costs of NPIU, SPIUs; (e) expenses related to organization of workshops, meetings, study visits
and travel of officials and faculty for preparation of the project; and (f) any other project-related
expenditure incurred following the Bank guidelines.
A udit: NPIU accounts in EdCIL will be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants acceptable to the
Cormptroller and Auditor General of India. The SPIU accounts, which will include the accounts of the
institutions participating in that state, will be audited by the Accountant General (Audit) of that state. All
these nine audit certificates for NPIU, the seven Project States and the UT would be sent to IDA within six
months of the close of GOI's fiscal year. All nine audit certificates and the special account audit report
will be monitored in ARCS.
g9-



Special Account: A Special Account will be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and will be
operated by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The authorized
allocation of the Special Account would be 5 million that represent about 6 months of initial estimated
disbursements from IDA Credit. The Special Account will be operated in accordance with the Bank's
operational policies.
Procurement
Procurement arrangements according to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines are detailed in Annex 6.
Implementation Period
The project is expected to be implemented in five years. The expected implementation period is December
1, 2000 to December 31, 2005. The Project is expected to close on June 30, 2006.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Investment in technician education is required to produce the pool of skilled manpower that would
encourage private firms to modemize their technology and invest in industries with high growth potential.
Information provided by the state project planning teams indicate that there are no private training facilities
offering the programs that are being proposed in the project. Some local entrepreneurs currently offer
short-term training programs of variable quality in specific areas such as use of software packages, but
these do not meet the broader skill needs associated with economic development and growth. Private sector
involvement in the provision of technician training is unlikely to be forthcoming in the project states for
various reasons. The modem manufacturing sector and the average size of firms is small in the project
states. Private entrepreneurs lack the know-how, especially in new technologies, and the capital required
for establishing modem training institutions. Due to the small size of the population and limited
enrollments, unit costs in the polytechnics in these states are higher than in other Indian states.
The absence of training capacity in the private sector is one justification for government intervention in the
provision of technician training. However, the strongest argument for government involvement is to
promote equity and enable secondary school pass-outs in these economically underdeveloped states to
enhance their earnings and improve their chances of getting employment in industries or sectors with high
growth potential. Per capita income in all the project states is below the all-India average; in Tripura,
Jammu & Kashmir and Meghalaya, the per capita income is between 50-80% lower than the all-India
average. About 35% of the population of these states lives below the poverty line (Annex 4 - Table 4.1).
The project states have achieved relatively high enrollment ratios at the primary and secondary levels, as
well as high female literacy rates. The absence of high quality training facilities in the states prevents
secondary school pass-outs from acquiring the skills required for productive employment in modern
industries.
One alternative to establishing new polytechnics and introducing new programs in existing polytechnics is
to expand an existing Central government program, under which eligible students from these states are
granted admission in polytechnics located in other states, if the course is not offered in their home state.
However, the high cost of transportation, boarding and lodging as well as other cultural factors dissuade
many students from studying in other states, leading to under utilization of the quotas and high drop out
rates. In particular, women students and those youths from poor tribal families are unlikely to study in
- 10 -



othe r states. Thus, although annual unit recurrent (institutional) costs are lower in the other states (due to
larger enrollment size), the total cost of training under this scheme is much higher due to the high level of
dropouts as well as the additional private costs. Expansion of this scheme to allow higher quotas for the
project states is considered un-viable due to these reasons, as well as reluctance on the part of the other
states to accept these students. By providing training facilities in these states, the project will enable
women and poor tribal students who have been deterred in the past from enrolling in polytechnic programs
to acquire higher-order technical skills.
Another possible alternative for developing technical manpower in the states is to develop and utilize the
distance learning mode of education. This requires the presence of good quality resource institutions and
study centers at various places with adequate support facilities and tutors, and an effective delivery as well
as monitoring system. In addition, technical education needs work-places where students can acquire
practice-based knowledge. None of the project states has institutions or work-places to act as resource
centers or study/practice centers and there are no effective means of communication to enable program
delivery and effective monitoring. Under the circumstances, this alternative is not considered feasible.
2. Mlajor related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
- T    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
-      .    . .                                    .    . .    (Bank-financed projects onty)
Implementation   Development
Barik-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
To assist in upgrading the training of  Electronics Industry         S             S
medium and high level technical and    Development - HRD
professional manpower needed for the  Component (Ln. 3093-IN)
rapiid and efficient growth of the  (closed FY96)
electronic industry.              (Co-financed by the Swiss
Agency for Development and
Cooperation)
To improve the quality and efficiency   Vocational Education Project  S            S
of craftsman and apprenticeship   (Cr. 2008-IN) (closed FY99)
training; and to improve and diversify
advanced training programs.
To support national policy initiatives to Technician Education Project  HS        HS
modernize and expand technician   (Cr. 2130-IN) (closed FY99)
education and improve its quality and
efficiency (in nine states).
To support national policy initiatives to Second Technician Education  HS         HS
modernize and expand technician   Project (Cr. 2223-IN) (closed
education and improve its quality and  FY00)
efficiency (in eight states and two union
territories).
- 11 -



To support major sector reforms in    Sub-sector Program for
technical education               Technical Education (proposed)
Other development agencies
Strengthening of Regional Engineering  UK-British Council- REC              T
Colleges in selected disciplines.  Project (closed FY99)
Strengthening of industry - institute    Canada-India Project
interaction and continuing education    (on-going)
programs in selected polytechnics.
Skills development programs in     GTZ- Madhya Pradesh Govt.
advanced technologies.             CRISP Project (on-going)
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design is based primarily on the experience gained from the two recently completed Technician
Education Projects, which have been rated highly satisfactory in project outcomes. The policy reforms
identified and agreed to by the project states are based on the successful interventions made in some
progressive states and include institutional autonomy, program flexibility, greater female participation,
industry-institute interaction, intemal revenue generation, etc. It also incorporates the recommendations
made for major reforms in technical education in the Bank's sector study on Scientific and Technical
Manpower Development in India. Some of the recommendations of a recent Performance Audit Report of
the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) on Investment in Technical and Vocational Education
in India are also taken note of in the project design.
The experience of the Technician Education Projects in India indicates that an early consensus on project
scope and components through micro-planning at polytechnic level would accelerate project progress. The
design of the Third Technician Education Project is based on detailed consultations with and inputs from
principals and faculty of all existing project polytechnics and the Technical Teachers Training Institutes.
The states have definite plans to involve students, employers and community in the implementation of the
project from the very beginning.
Key to the success of the two Technician Education Projects was full ownership by the states along with
the policy support and critical technical assistance from the Center. This has been ensured in the design of
the present project. Effective central coordination, recognition of good performance of states through
allocation of additional funds, monitoring and evaluation studies, sharing the problems and possible
solutions through workshops, promoting healthy competition and cooperation between states, and
facilitating responsive management had helped the earlier projects. These strategies have been considered
and incorporated in the project design.
Guidance and coordination from the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) and professional
support from Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs) played a crucial facilitating role in project
implementation of the earlier projects. TTTIs are being involved in this project also as resource institutions
for training polytechnic teachers, curriculum development, student assessment reforms, leaming resources
development, designing systems for autonomy and flexibility, research studies, helping institutions in their
development planning, etc.
- 12 -



Release of project counterpart funds as a line allocation to the project account, which is not lumped with
overall departmental allocation in the State budgets, will avoid delays in implementation of the project. All
the project states have agreed to make such a provision.
The over-centralization of procurement built into the design of the earlier two Technician Education
Projects caused major delays. In consultation with the project states, appropriate decentralization is
incorporated in the project design.
Timely creation and filling of key staff positions with qualified and trained staff are most critical to the
success of an education project. Progress in the earlier two projects was hampered due to delays in proper
staffing of institutions. The project states have been advised that progress in staffing will be monitored
regularly by the Government of India and IDA, andfundingfor works and goods could be suspended if
there were delays in creation andfilling of key staffposts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
To tackle the enormous educational challenges faced by GOI, a National Policy on Education (NPE) was
approved in 1986. The Policy was amended in 1992. During the Ten-Year Investment in Technician
Education Program (1990-99), 17 major states and 2 union territories were supported with IDA assistance.
After the successful completion of the two Technician Education Projects, the GOI sought the Bank's
assistance after a very detailed consultation and planning with the project states.
The National Policy Initiatives for Technician Education, prepared by a panel of experts with active
participation from industry, has been approved by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in 1999.
The project is based on these initiatives, which are crucial for its success.
Despite their limited capacity, all the project states have completed extensive preparations and
documentation required for project appraisal in a very short period. They have also initiated actions to
implement major reforms in the system. All the state governments have expressed their support for the
project and have already provided/acquired land for construction of polytechnics.
In the design of the Project, very senior state officials, and principals and faculty of all existing
polytechnics have been involved so that their ownership of project components and achievement of project
targets is established from the very beginning. They have participated in the planning workshops,
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions and their views have been accommodated in the project design. In
many states, students, employers and local community have also been consulted.
There is already an agency, National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), at the center with a well-proven
capacity to complete preparation and supervise implementation. The NPIU has played a major role in the
formulation of the states' project proposals and Project Implementation Plans according to the Bank
guidelines. In addition, the four Technical Teacher Training Institutes (TTTIs) have expressed their
commitment to the project by being involved as resource institutions.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Development of the polytechnics in the States which were not included in the earlier projects is an
imperative in India today for equity reasons and a necessity for balanced development of the technological
infrastructure. While the sums of money involved are relatively small and well within the capacity of GOI
to finance without recourse to extemal assistance, there is a certain discipline attending to implementation
- 13 -



of an investment project assisted by the World Bank which is highly valued by both the central and State
governments and the institutions themselves; in the case of the comparatively deprived and isolated States
this may be even more important than it was for the States covered earlier. The project will also provide an
opportunity for continuation of the Bank's international efforts in this sector, with special attention to the
economic needs of women and tribal communities.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Employment and earnings of graduates: In the absence of data on age-earnings profiles, unemployment
rates and the labor market for polytechnic graduates, a thorough cost-benefit analysis could not be done for
the project. On the basis of the indicative project costs provided at appraisal, and using costs incurred on
academic activities alone (i.e., excluding costs incurred on residential accommodation and the DTE/SPIU),
the average increase in earnings of graduates (over the earnings of secondary school pass-outs) required to
yield a 10% return on investment is in the range of INR 2,800 - 7400 per month. Tracer studies, conducted
in other states as part of the earlier two Bank-assisted projects, indicate the average initial earnings of
polytechnic graduates to be about INR 3,500-8,000 per month, although there are substantial variations
across disciplines. In principle, over their working life, polytechnic graduates should be able to secure an
average earnings differential over secondary school graduates through wage/self employment that justifies
the projected expenditures on academic activities.
However, in order to ensure adequate economic returns on project investments, it is necessary that the
majority of polytechnic graduates obtain appropriate employment. Employment prospects are difficult in
the project states because of the small size of the modem sector; especially of the industrial sector, the low
level of urbanization, the constraints on public sector expansion and limited investment in the private
sector. The project has tried to address these concerns by introducing programs in areas where
employment is likely to grow in the context of state-specific initiatives undertaken by the respective
governments and in strategic high-technology areas. Of the new programs being offered, 16 are in
computer engineering/applications, information technology and telecommunications and graduates can be
expected to obtain employment fairly quickly, especially as there is no training capacity in the private
sector. In general, however, progress in employment outcomes will depend to a large extent on the
environment that is created to promote overall economic growth in these industrially under-developed
states.
Project states/UT have agreed that appropriate employment of graduates within a reasonable time frame
will be promoted by Industry/Community-Institute Interaction Cell (ICIIC), student advisory services,
on-the-job training, interaction with industry and community and frequent revision of curricula to respond
to changing labor market needs. It has been agreed with project states/UT and NPIU that the employment
rate and earnings of graduates will be one of the key performance indicators. Baseline data on these
indicators will be collected immediately after project launch using tracer studies and these indicators will be
monitored during project implementation.
Internal efficiency: The above calculation on required earnings differentials assumes that project
polytechnics will improve internal efficiency. Currently, actual enrollment is between 60-70% of
sanctioned capacity and pass rates are between 50-70%. It has been assumed that enrollments will be at
- 14 -



least 75% of sanctioned capacity and that about 80% students will successfully complete within three years
all the requirements for award of diploma. Should internal efficiency be lower than that assumed, the unit
cost of producing a graduate would be higher, and would lower the returns to the project. The project
states/UT have agreed that a high level of internal efficiency will be maintained and monitored through
appropriate indicators (admissions as a percent of intake capacity, dropout rates and pass rates). This will
require a major change in the functioning of existing polytechnics where actual enrollment is currently
below sanctioned capacity. All polytechnics have planned to fill the sanctioned student places with talented
and motivated students by (a) ensuring that programs cater to student demand, and (b) better marketing of
programs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The budget of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands is part of the Central government budget. All the other
project states are special category states, which are almost entirely dependent on Central transfers to meet
their non-plan and plan expenditures. In these states, combined Central transfers (Central taxes plus
grants) account for nearly 90% of total revenue receipts. Consequently, total expenditures, and especially
the annual plan allocations, are determined by the size of Central assistance in each year.
On average, each state will have to contribute between INR 5-18 million each year towards the project.
The expected annual counterpart funding for this project will entail an increase of 1-5% over the
1999/2000 level of Plan expenditure on total education for each state. Hence, the provision of counterpart
funding should not be a problem; however, given the near total dependence on Central assistance, the state's
share of annual project expenditures should be taken into account when the Central government determines
the total volume of Central assistance for each state's Annual Plan. Necessary approvals of the Central
government's Planning Commission and the state Finance Departments have been, or are in the process of
being, obtained.
Annual recurrent costs arising at the end of the project period will be borne by the state governments. The
inc:remental recurrent costs of the project will represent between 1-3% of projected non-plan expenditures
on total education (assuming that non-plan expenditures grow at 4% per annum from 1999/2000 levels).
Maintenance of past trends in education expenditure should be sufficient to ensure that incremental
expenditures are met. However, the sub-sectoral allocation to technical education will need to be
significantly enhanced by the end of the project period in order to sustain recurrent liabilities, since at
present, the expenditure on technical education in these states is minimal or non-existent.
Although the absolute amounts involved are relatively small and should not pose a problem for project
sustainability, much depends on the continuation of Central assistance to these states on the same scale as
until now. The ability of the state governments to sustain recurrent costs will be adversely affected if
Central assistance should decline. The policies that will be introduced as part of this project to increase
internal revenue generation (enhanced cost-recovery through student fees, continuing education,
consultancies to industry, etc.) will contribute to ensuring financial sustainability of the project.
3. Technical:
Prcject design is based on the two highly successful Bank-assisted Technician Education Projects
- 15 -



implemented in 19 other states/Union Territories in India. Basic elements of the earlier projects and this
project remain the same, viz., capacity expansion, quality enhancement, and efficiency improvement.
However, the emphasis in this project is on sustainable policy reforms (especially, institutional autonomy,
program flexibility, close interaction with community and industry, intemal revenue generation) that will
help address the issues in an effective manner. The project will utilize strategies successfully tested in more
progressive states earlier to develop the technician education system. The project design also incorporates
many recommendations of recent Bank studies of the subsector in India.
Most states have based their proposals on the industrial and economic surveys done by some government
departments. In many states, local employers and community representatives have also been consulted. A
large number of courses relate to information technology, computer science, communications and the
growing service sector. The course on costume design and garment technology will focus on adoption of
the special designs of the colorful traditional tribal dresses of the region for possible export promotion.
Similarly, the course on herbal remedies and cosmetology will promote scientific use of local herbal
resources and traditional methods. Keeping in view the information revolution, computer education will be
given a prominent place in the curricula; and libraries will be provided with Internet access.
The location of all new institutions has been carefully planned. All project polytechnics and programs will
comply with the norms, quality standards and guidelines set by the All India Council for Technical
Education (AICTE). The states will adapt with improvement and local needs the best curricula developed
in similar programs in other states during the two technician education projects.
The programs chosen are expected to attract women students to technician education in much larger
numbers than the conventional engineering programs, which are facing manpower saturation and limited
demand in many states. In addition, provision of hostel facilities, scholarships, etc., are also expected to
increase access of the students from rural areas (particularly women).
The project focuses on establishing strong linkages of the polytechnics with the local industry and
community. Models developed with good results and high social acceptance in earlier projects will be used
with further refinement. All polytechnics will conduct continuing education programs, which will be
designed based on detailed planning with the local industry. The community interaction programs will be
developed in close consultation with the community according to their specific needs and matching with the
capability of the polytechnics. Such programs are already being conducted successfully, though on a
limited scale, in Jammu & Kashmir and Tripura as well as other parts of the country under a GOI scheme
of Community Polytechnics.
Project states' investment proposals including requirements of faculty and staff, equipment, academic/
administrative/residential spaces, and other resources are based on the AICTE guidelines and state norms.
An attempt has been made to optimize space utilization to minimize the requirement of additional civil
works. Adequate allowances for physical and price contingencies have been kept as per Bank guidelines.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
At the national level, the overall coordination and guidance for the project will be provided by the
Department of Secondary Education and Higher Education in the Ministry of Human Resource
Development of the Government of India. The National Project Directorate (NPD), established in the
Department, will be responsible for implementation of the project through the project states. The NPD will
- 16 -



be assisted by the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU).
At the state level, the state departmnent dealing with education/technical education will be responsible for
project implementation. The concerned department will be assisted by the Directorate of Technical
Education and/or the State Project Implementation Unit (SPIU). The SPIUs will work closely with the
NPiU.
4.2 Project management:
The NPD and the NPIU have the experience of implementing two Bank-assisted technician education
projects. One of the factors contributing to success of the projects was the effective coordination, guidance
and monitoring provided by the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU). On the other hand, many
project states have no prior experience of implementing any Bank-assisted project. Also, most states are
geographically remote, economically and industrially underdeveloped, and have limited communication and
transportation links. This situation will pose problems for effective coordination, monitoring, training and
procurement of goods and services. To overcome these problems, the NPIU will conduct a series of
training workshops to train SPIU staff on Bank procedures and project planning. It is also developing
guide documents and project monitoring instruments. Internet access to SPIUs and polytechnics planned in
the project will overcome the problems of communication to some extent. Adequate financial provision has
been kept for engaging consultants to assist the project states in civil works, procurement of goods, and
implementation of academic aspects such as curriculum revision/development,
industry/community-institute interaction, autonomy, program flexibility, etc. The Technical Teachers
Training Institutes, which played a major role in the earlier two projects, will act as resource institutions
for academic aspects in this project as well.
The proposed monitoring and evaluation mechanisms improve upon the successful models developed during
the two technician education projects. These include development of a project monitoring information
system at the state and national level backed up by periodic reviews by the state secretaries, the NPIU and
the NPD. The bi-annual joint reviews of GOI and IDA will generally cover all aspects of the project with
special focus achievements in quality components. The Mid-term review will provide an opportunity for
mid-course evaluation and corrections, as needed. Towards the closing stage of the project, studies on the
project impact will be supported by the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was last done in 1985. A new review has been
initiated and a draft report would be available by September 2000. India has been borrowing for nearly
five decades. The National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), having guided, coordinated and monitored
both centralized procurement at the national level and procurements at the state level in two Bank-assisted
technician education projects, is well conversant with the Bank procedures. The NPIU will train the
concerned state officials in Bank procurement procedures before project effectiveness.
However, as most of the project states do not have the experience of procurement through Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) methods for ensuring well-planned and
efficient procurement of goods, these states will engage procurement agencies as per Bank guidelines.
The discussions with states have revealed the following risks which could delay civil works:
*   Sites at many locations are hilly making construction time consuming;
*   Limited fair weather days at many locations;
*   Unwillingness of large contractors to undertake civil works due to remoteness of locations and
inadequate resources of local contractors.
- 17 -



States have been advised to incorporate the site-specific special working conditions in construction
schedules at the time of award of contract.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The NPD and the NPIU are fully familiar with the Bank's traditional system of disbursement against full
documentation and against statement of expenditure. However, they are not familiar with the Project
Management Report -based disbursements. Provisions have been made in the project for developing this
competence at the NPIU and SPIUs by April 1, 2001.
There are two other major issues: (a) the flow of funds from State Governments to the SPIUs may not be
timely because of State Governments' constraints because of the fiscal situation of the State Governments
executing the project. During negotiations, a commitment was obtained from all the participating states
that the funds earmarked for the project will be made available to the respective SPIUs in time and without
any delay; and (b) the audit reports from the eight SPIUs may not be submitted within six months of the
close of the GOI fiscal year. Again, during the negotiations, a commitment was obtained from the states,
that they will submit to the Accountant General (Audit) of the state, reconciled financial statements within
four months of the close of the fiscal year, to facilitate submission of the AG's audit report within six
months of the close of the fiscal year.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project states have confirmed that the proposed construction of 6 new polytechnics, extension of 12
existing polytechnics and office spaces for the directorates/state units on identified institutional lands will
not raise any environmental concerns. During the design and construction of the buildings, environment
protection and pollution control laws will be strictly adhered to. The revised/new curricula and training
provided by the polytechnics are expected to raise environmental awareness amongst students, local
industries and communities which will help reduce environmental degradation.
States have given assurances that land identified for construction and extension of polytechnics do not
involve relocation and resettlement of people.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Detailed discussions held with state secretaries, directors of technical education and principals of
polytechnics have resulted in minimization of additional construction in the existing polytechnics. The IDA
architect will keep environmental issues in view, while reviewing the master plans and detailed designs for
new polytechnics and additions to existing polytechnics. Compliance with the suggestions made by the
IDA architect will be closely monitored by the SPIUs and NPIU.
- 18 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the environmental impacts will include monitoring the performance of
contractors for compliance with the prescribed construction management practices/codes, and including an
environmental specialist in the project task team for occasional supervision of construction.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Along with the issues of poverty, geographic isolation and limited economic development, each project state
presents unique social characteristics and issues. Over 85% of the populations of Meghalaya, Mizoram
and Nagaland consist of persons belonging to different tribes (Table 2. 1). In Arunachal Pradesh, tribal
groups constitute 63.6% of the population, in Tripura, 3 1 %, and in Sikkim, 22%. In the Andaman &
Nicobar Islands, and Jammu & Kashmir, the tribal populations are close to the national average of about
8%/O. Significant percentages of the populations of the project states belong to minority religious groups
(Christians in the northeastern states, Muslims in Jammu & Kashmir, and Buddhists in Sikkim). Literacy
rates are significantly higher than the national average in many project states. In fact, Mizoram currently
has the highest literacy rate in India (95%). In many states, there are high gross enrollment ratios at
secondary level also, and women participate in education in high proportions (Table 4. 1).
These high literacy rates coupled with limited economic activities in the states are leading to growing
numbers of educated unemployed and frustrated youth. Youth (largely scheduled tribes, women and
minority communities from lower/lower-middle income groups) have very limited access to technical
education at present, hence they would be the primary beneficiaries of the project.
The major social development outcomes of the project would be: (a) enhanced participation of women,
scheduled tribes, and rural youth in the technical workforce; (b) increased employability (in wage- and
self-employment) and earning among youth from low- and middle-income families; (c) added value to local
resources and increased marketability of traditional methods and knowledge; and (d) increased abilities of
local communities to meet their needs.
They project aims to increase the employability of youth through formal and non-formal training programs
and by promoting economic activities in the states. The introduction of new programs and availability of
hostel facilities are expected to increase women's enrollment to 40-50% in most states. Tribal students
would be the majority of students in Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Rural and
poor urban communities are also expected to benefit from the short-term training programs and community
services offered by the polytechnics. The availability of technical manpower is expected to promote private
investment, and result in increased employment/self-employment opportunities.
The formal programs to be provided under the project have been selected carefully to meet local
socio-economic needs. A large number of courses relate to information technology, computer science,
communications and the growing service sector. Courses on garment technology would develop and
promote adaptations of the traditional tribal designs and dresses of the region to increase production and
export. Similarly, courses in herbal remedies and cosmetology would promote scientific use of local herbal
resources and traditional methods. Food processing technology has been chosen to help local fanners. In
the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, a course on marine engineering would be introduced to help improve
transportation of people and goods between the islands and improve access to the mainland.
- 19-



The project would also promote and expand non-formal training and community interaction programs.
Some are already being conducted successfully on a limited scale in Jammu & Kashmir and Tripura, in
addition to other parts of the country, under a GOI scheme for Community Polytechnics. The programs in
the project would be developed in close consultation with local comnmunities to address their specific needs
by matching these with the capabilities of the polytechnics.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholder and beneficiary workshops were conducted in October 1999 as a part of the Intensive Learning
ICR of the Second Technician Education Project and the information obtained was used in the design of
this project. The IDA team also met with groups of students and faculty during its visits to polytechnics.
In the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, students were involved in the design of the project. As students are the
project's primary beneficiaries, they would continue to be consulted in the development of curricula and
instructional strategies.
The project has been conceived and prepared with the active participation of faculty and heads of
institutions, Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs), state governments, and the National Project
Implementation Unit. The All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the Planning
Commission at the national level have also been consulted by the project states. The Government of India
supports the project for equity reasons and for balanced development of technological infrastructure in the
project states. Most states have based their proposals on the industrial and economic surveys done by some
government departments. Local employers and community representatives have also been consulted.
Local communities would be involved in governing bodies of the institutions, program selection and design,
continuing education and all community-oriented programs. In addition, the faculty, administration and
students of the polytechnics would be involved in planning and implementing the community outreach
programs. The progress and impact of the linkages between the polytechnics and communities would be
closely monitored by GOI and IDA during project implementation. The NPIU and SPIUs would organize
periodic workshops to facilitate and promote discussions with local communities. The monitoring system
would include community assessments of the programs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As noted above, the polytechnics would develop significant community development programs. To develop
and implement these, they would consult and collaborate with community leaders and groups, local
industry, and service organizations including NGOs. NGOs may also be involved in the continuing
education programs, help in technology transfer, and provide consultancy and problem-solving services.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
All states are formulating and finalizing state-level policies to promote the greater participation of women,
tribal and other disadvantaged groups in technical education. The Government of India and the state
governments are already financing the conduct of community development activities on a limited scale in
some polytechnics, and are committed to expanding community services by the polytechnics under the
project. An Industry/Community-Institute Interaction Cell (ICIIC) would be established in each project
polytechnic. These Cells would be responsible for (a) increasing the involvement of industry and
community in academic and management matters, and (b) facilitating the provision of training and technical
- 20 -



services to local industry and community.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes (such as the increased technical education of women and tribal students and
their employment, benefits to communites as a result of continuing education and service programs) have
been included among the key performance indicators of the project and would be monitored as past of the
regular monitoring (and evaluation) activities. Community assessments would also be part of the regular
monitoring activities. Social development aspects may also be the object of special studies identifed as the
project progresses. The M&E activities would be reviewed by the bi-annual and mid-term review missions.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeuard policies apply to the project?
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           n Yes 0 No
E] Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    L Yes 1X No
O] Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    L Yes 0 No
E] Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      C] Yes   No
K] Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  [I Yes  No
21 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       Yes   No
El] Involuntary Resettlement lOD 4.30                             El Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              U Yes 1 No
K] Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)    U Yes 1Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Indigenous Peoples
To, provide commensurate and culturally-compatible benefits to tribal people, the project would ensure (a)
that the appropriate proportion of places and facilities in the polytechnics are given to indigenous students;
(b) that the on-going and new academic programs/curricula fit the needs of the local tribal populations and
are compatible with their cultures; and (c) that the industry/community outreach programs cover
in(igenous populations and needs.
A large percentage of students (60-90%) in the project polytechnics in Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya,
M:izoram and Nagaland would be from tribal communities, and about 30% in Tripura. In the other
states/UT the proportion of tribal students would be commensurate with the proportion of tribals in their
total populations. Some diploma programs offered by the polytechnics in all states would focus on the
development and promotion of skills and technologies related to indigenous activities such as handicrafts or
the use of traditional herbs.
Ea,ch polytechnic would carry out a detailed social assessment prior to designing and implementing its
community outreach programs. This would include the collection and analysis of relevant data on the local
tribal communities and their institutions, and ascertaining their preferences through consultations. The
programs designed as a result of these social and institutional anlayses would offer culturally-appropriate
choices and build in continuous assessments of relevance, community interest in them, and effectiveness.
In addition, the participatory measures planned in the project would enhance the involvement of tribal
- 21 -



communities and benefits to them. For example, the project emphasizes community participation in the
management and governance of polytechnics; and local community leaders and members would be involved
in decision-making throughout project planning, implementation and evaluation. The impact of the project
on Scheduled Tribes -- e.g., enrollment, completion, participation in community programs, skills, and
employment -- would be closely monitored by the SPIUs and NPIU and reported regularly to GOI and IDA
during reviews. Annex 11 provides further details on how the project would promote tribal development.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Because of the small number of polytechnics in most states and complete absence of polytechnics in
two states at present, incremental operating costs due to project implementation will be substantial.
The resulting financial strain on the state finances would be mitigated to some extent through internal
revenue generation through consultancy earnings and commercial use of facilities, cost recovery
though increased fees, keeping the operating costs as low as possible, and through participation of
industry and community in financing some programs. Financial sustainability is also likely as
recurrent costs arising at the end of the project period are relatively small ( 1-3 % of projected non
plan expenditure on total education). The financial sustainability of the proposed project is
summarized in section E2 (Summary Project Analysis, Financial) and is more fully documented in
Annex 4.
Sustainability of project gains is likely due to committed state support, autonomy to be granted to
polytechnics, flexible and market driven programs, policy reforms, staff training and availability of
qualified staff, availability of modem facilities and involvement of industry and community. An
Operational Plan to sustain gains of the project will be prepared by each state towards the end of the
Project. State Governments and the Boards of Governors of autonomous institutions will implement
the Operational Plans.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Ris kRatig            Risik Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Expected Policy reforms may be delayed.     M         Many states have proposed policy reforms in
their own proposals and have agreed to commit
to a time frame to implement reforms within
two years of project effectiveness.
Limited opportunities for industrial        M         Some students and faculty will be sent for
linkages in the states.                               training in industrialized states; all states are
making financial provisions to support such
training.
From Components to Outputs
- 22 -



There may not be sufficient demand for       M         The new programs and new institutions are
the new programs.                                      decided based on labor market perceptions.
Moreover, intensive marketing of the new
programs would be carried out to attract good
students to seek technician education as a career
option.
Faculty recruitment for new programs         M         Special measures will be taken by the states to
may pose difficulties due to                           develop faculty from the locally available
non-availability of suitable local                     manpower and to engage guest faculty from
candidates.                                            other parts of the country.
Appropriate learning resources like          M         Help would be sought from the major states,
cormputer-aided learning, video programs               covered in earlier projects, and Technical
may not be available in some programs.                 Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs) will be
consulted to overcome shortage of learning
materials in new areas.
Establishment and strengthening of           N         All states are committed to provide autonomy to
Boards/ Directorates/ Councils/ SPIUs                  institutions in a phased manner. Boards/
may increase bureaucracy.                              Directorates/ Councils would function in a
supportive and advisory rather than controlling
and prescriptive manner.
Weak implementation capacity of states       M         Provision of resident consultant and other
and UT in implementing academic                        consultants has been kept to assist states/UT in
reforms.                                               implementing academic reforms. Technical
Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTI) and other
resource institutions will also assist states in
developing capacity to implement academic
reforms through training and consultancies.
Management and implementation of the         M         The situation is improving as Government of
project may be difficult as some the states            India is taking special measures for faster
face law and order problems.                           economic development of the states.
Civil works at some sites may get delayed    S          States/UT have been advised to incorporate the
due to hilly terrain, limited fair weather              site specific special working conditions by
days, remoteness of locations, and                     planning overlap of feasible activities etc., at the
unwillingness of large contractors from                 time of award of the contract to ensure timely
neighboring states to work at these                     completion of works.
locations.
Procurements may be delayed as               M          States/UT propose to appoint consultancy firms
States/UT have limited procurement                     for procurement.
experience.
- 23 -



Fund flow to SPIUs may not be adequate      M         The flow of funds will be monitored closely by
and timely.                                           NPD and corrective actions taken as needed.
IDA will also monitor financial progress during
bi-annual reviews.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, the following assurances were provided by
(a) The GOI that it shall:
*   withhold and cause the project states to withhold establishment of any new publicly funded
polytechnic without the prior approval of the AICTE;
*   by April 1, 2001, jointly with the project states, develop and institute and therafter maintain
fellowship training program, including study tours, agreed to by the GOI and IDA;
- develop and establish a Management Information System (MIS) in the NPIU for monitoring and
supervision of the Project
o maintain adequate staff in the NPIU and the project polytechnics of the Union Territory according
to a schedule of depolyment of key additional staff as agreed with IDA;
* in conjunction with the project states and IDA, undertake bi-annual reviews and a mid-tenn review
by December 31, 2003, on the basis of monitorable benchmarks agreed to by the GOI and IDA;
X enable NPIU to get tracer studies of polytechnic, project impact analysis, social/commnunity needs
assessment and other research studies conducted as required during project implementation;
* develop a LACI compliant Financial Management System (FMS) and make it operational in the
NPIU and project states/UT by April 1, 2001;
* fumish to IDA, not later than September 30 each year, Audit Report from an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA , for all project related expenditures for the preceding financial year, of such
scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request.
(b) The Project States and the UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands that they shall:
* provide key additional staff to their respective SPIU/Board/ Directorate/Council and polytechnics
according to a schedule of depolyment of key additional staff as agreed with the GOI and IDA;
* award substantial academic, financial and administrative autonomy to their respective
polytechnics according to a time-bound action plan, prepared during the first year of Project
implementation, satisfactory to GOI and IDA.
* institute by April 1, 2001, a plan satisfactory to GOI and IDA, for training of state officials
dealing with technician education, and polytechnic teaching and non-teaching staff;
- 24 -



*S prepare and furnish to IDA by December 31 of each year for the next fiscal year, draft annual
plans including (i) the introduction of new programs, (ii) procurement of civil works, goods and
consultant services, (iii) training of teachers including local and foreign fellowships, and (iv)
programs for interaction with industry and community;
a,  provide adequate and timely funds, and physical and manpower resources to their respective SPIUs
and polytechnics for implementation of the project;
a,  provide adequate resources to their respective polytechnics for maintenance of buildings and
equipment; and delegate appropriate financial powers by March 31, 2002 to polytechnic principals
to enable them to undertake annual maintenance programs at their respective polytechnics;
*S  in conjunction with GOI and IDA, undertake bi-annual reviews, and a mid-term review by
December 31, 2003 on the basis of monitorable bench marks agreed to by the GOI and IDA; and
ol furnish to IDA, not later than September 30 each year, Audit Report from the state Accountant
General (Audit) , for all project related expenditures for the preceding financial year, of such scope
and detail as IDA may reasonably request.
H. Readiness for Implementation
X 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
LI 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1S 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. The requirements for the additional spaces to be construction have been appraised. The states have
agreed to follow the IDA guidelines and use the model NCB document. As per the Project Implementation
Plan, no major civil works are planned during the first year of the project. Only minor extensions/
modifications of the existing buildings will be undertaken at eight locations in five states utilizing services
of their state agencies. Engineering design for major civil works to be undertaken from the second year of
the project have commenced in four states. The other four will utilize the services of consulting agencies for
design and costruction. The agencies are expected to be appointed by September 2000. The bidding
documents for all major works are expected to be presented to IDA for review and clearance by April
2001.
2. Preliminary lists of equipment to be procured during the project have been prepared by all states. These
are being reviewed, refined and finalized. The states have agreed to follow the IDA guidelines and use the
model NCB document. As per the Project Implementation Plan, during the first year, only some of the
equipment to replenish the existing laboratories and workshops, and a limited number of computers are to
be procured following the national shopping procedure. Six states are also expected to appoint consulting
agencies for procurement by September 2000. The first NCB documents from all states for equipment
procurement during the second year are expected to be sent to IDA for review by April 2001.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
N 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
- 25 -



all other applicable Bank policies.
.-I.
Shashi K Shrivastava                      Y. Jimenez           (E win Lim
Team Leader                      Sector'ManagerlDirector     4   Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicaors             i- ort W-109AXWO__1________
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To assist project states' pursuit of * Increased industrial and  * Sector reports       * Accelerated economic and
accelerated growth with equity by  economic activities in the states * State Economic Surveys  industrial growth will lead to
(a) increa sing the efficiency and  * Enhanced per capita income    * Periodic reports of Centre for    poverty reduction and greater
responsiveness of technical  * Enhanced participation of    Monitoring Economy (CMIE)    equity in project states/UT.
training institutions to the   women and tribals in technical                            * The state govemments are
changing labor market needs; (b)  labor force                                             willing to introduce reforms in
supporting key policy reforms in                                                         the system.
technical education; and (c)                                                             *The states will facilitate close
creating opportunities for training                                                      interaction between institutions
of some disadvantaged sections of                                                         and community/ industry.
society to alleviate poverty.
Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The propDsed project will assist  *Effectiveness and stage of  *Project monitoring reports  *Availability of higher quality
the industrially and economically  implementation of proposed    * GOIV IDA Review missions  technical manpower will spur
underdeveloped, and            systemic reforms in technician  * Tracer studies           industrial and economic growth.
geographically remote states of    education in each state
the northeastern region      * Percent of polytechnic graduates                          * Management and
(Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya,   employed/self-employed in their                         implementation of multi-state
Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim,     field of training within one year                          project in relatively less
Tripura), Jammu & Kashmir,     of graduation                                              developed and remote states can
and the union territory (UT) of   * Average time taken for                                be effectively managed.
Andamarn & Nicobar Islands to    completing polytechnic diploma
expand capacity and improve the  *Nature and level of interaction
quality and efficiency of      with local community and
technician (polytechnic)       industry
education to meet the specific
economic needs of each state.
The project will also aim at  *Percentage increase of women/ *Project monitoring reports  *Programs offered by
increasing access of women,    tribal/ rural students in   * GOI/ IDA Review mission      polytechnics will be appropriate
scheduled tribes, minorities and    enrollment in formal and                              and attractive, and will help the
rural youth to technician      non-formal programs                                        trainees increase their eaming
education and training.                                                                   capacity
-27 -



XHi0 weh tO tis                      I t    or    ~                    &E ptlo   G(t ic AssmptioA
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Developing/ expanding
capacity of technician
education system
* Increased number of        * Number of new institutions    * State and NPIU progress   * Technical manpower is
polytechnics                                               reports.                      inadequate in project states,
* Increased number of programs  * Number of new programs   * GOV IDA Review missions      especially in new and emerging
*Increased enrollment capacity   *Percentage increase in student  *Specific studies      technologies, and service sector
intake
*Increased number of hostel  eNumber of residences and                                   *Provision of hostels will
places and staff residences  hostel places created,                                     increase participation of
*Increased number of programs  *Number of persons trained                                 students (especially women)
for industry and community   through continuing education                                from remote areas.
and community services                                   * Industry and community
oriented continuing education
programs will enhance skills
and earning capacity of
beneficiaries and will attract
participation.
2. Enhancing quality of
technician education:
* Upgraded laboratories and  *Percentage of laboratories and  * State and NPIU progress  *Program flexibility, relevant
workshops                    workshops modemized           reports.                     curricula, trained teachers,
*Establishment of new        *Number of new modem          * GOV IDA Review missions      modemized labs and
laboratories and workshops   laboratories established     *Feedback from students,       workshops, increased use of
*Labor market relevant curricula *Percentage of existing curricula  teachers, and industry through    computers and leaming
revised / Number of new      workshops/meetings            resources, and intense
curricula developed                                        interaction with industry and
* Flexibility in program offerings * Increase in number of programs                       community will lead to better
with Multi-Point Entry and                                 quality of polytechnic graduates.
Credit System (MPE&CS)
* Improved staffing          * percentage of teaching posts
filled                                                   *With improved facilities,
* More competent teachers and   *number of faculty trained                                polytechnics will attract quality
non-teaching staff          *number of other staff trained                               students and teachers.
* Increased use of computers by   *Use of computers average
students and staff           hours/week /students
* Enhanced use of leaming    * Average number of Leaming
resources including multimedia   Resources issued/student/year
and Intemet
*Increased and effective     *Number of collaborative efforts
interaction between industry  (short term training programs,
and polytechnics             consultancy, intemships,
placement, transfer of
technology programs,
community services, etc.)
- 28 -



3. Improving efficiency of
technician education system
* Reduction in student dropouts   * Dropout rate in percentage  * State and NPIU progress  * Policy reforms are essential for
* Increase in student pass rate    * Average time taken to complete  reports.             improving efficiency of the
diploma program             * GOI/ IDA Review missions     system.
* Improved management of     *Number of institutions awarded e Formative evaluation     * States and all stake-holders are
polytechnics                 autonomy                                                    willing to participate in system
*Improved management of      *Reduction in time taken to                                 reforms.
technician education systems  perform key functions (e.g.
announcement of results)
* Computerized management at  * Operationalization of MIS and
state ancd individual polytechnic financial management systems
levels
* Improved cost recovery     * Increase in revenue generated
through tuition fees and other
means
Project Components           Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-comiponents:             component)                                                 Outputs)
(a) Capacity Expansion       USS 48.18 Million
*New Programs                                              * State progress reports      *New programs will be able to
(Quarterly)                  attract better students.
*New Co-ed Polytechnics                                    * State disbursement reports    *New and existing institutions
* Strengthening of Existing                                 (Quarterly)                   would meet increased demand
Polytechnics                                              * GOI/ IDA Review mission      for technicians
* Continu-ing Education facilities                          reports (Half yearly)       *Working technicians and
* Audit reports (Annually)    engineers and community would
be willing to take up continuing
education programs offered by
* Hostels and Residences                                                                  polytechnics
*Provision of faculty housing will
help attract and retain talented
faculty.
* Provision of hostels would
encourage women students and
students from far off areas to
take up technician education
* There will be no delay in civil
works and procurement of
goods.
- 29 -



(b) Quality Enhancement      US$ 22.85 Million
*Creation and filling of posts.                            *State progress reports       *Faculty recruitment will not
(Quarterly)                  pose major problems.
* Faculty Development                                      * State disbursement reports  * Training of teachers and staff,
* Supporting Staff Training                                 (Quarterly)                   updated/ new curricula,
* Equipment for labs and                                   * GOI! IDA Review mission      availability of modem
workshops                                                  reports (Half yearly)         equipment and books and
eLeaming Resource User Centers                             *Audit reports (Annually)      leaming resources (LRs) will
(LRUCs)                                                                                 improve quality of academic
*Curriculum Revision/                                                                     services provided by the
Development                                                                              institute.
* Industry/ Community                                                                    * There will be no delay in
-Institution Interaction Cells                                                           procurement of equipment,
* Maintenance Cells                                                                       books and leaming resources
and completion of other
academic activities.
*Adequate funds will be made
available to implementing
agencies.
(c) Efficiency Improvement    US$ 9.05 Million
* Establishment/ Strengthening of                          * State progress reports      * Establishment/ strengthening of
State Directorate & Boards                                 (Quarterly)                  Boards/ Directorates/ Councils/
* Research Studies for system                              * State disbursement reports   State Project Implementation
reforms                                                    (Quarterly)                   Units (SPIUs) will lead to better
* Computer-based Project and                               * GOI/ IDA Review mission      planning and management of
Financial Management systems                               reports (Half yearly)         the system.
*Autonomy with accountability                              * Audit reports (Annually)    *Autonomy to polytechnics
would lead to responsiveness to
market demands.
*Networking of institutions                                                              *Networking will lead to cost
sharing and enhanced access to
facilities between networked
institutions.
* Support for Policy reforms                                                             *Policy reforms would be
implemented within the agreed
time ftame.
- 30 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
The states and union territory (UT) covered by this project are characterized by small populations and low
population density, relatively weak infrastructure, and limited industrial development due to their
locational disadvantage and difficult terrain. Some of the economic and demographic indicators are
summarized in Table 2.1. The educational profile of the states/UT is shown in Table 2.2.
Table 2.1
Economic and Demographic Indicators of the Project States/UT
State/        A & N         Arunachal    Jammu &          Meghalaya      Mizoram       Nagaland       Sikkim        Tripura        India
Indicator     Islands        Pradesh       Kashmir
Area ('000    8              84            222            22             21            17             7              10            3287
Sq. Km.)
Population    0.28           0.86          7.7            1.8            0.69          1.2            0.4           2.8            846
(Millions),
1991
% Schedule    -             0.47           NA             0.51           0.10          -              5.93           16.36         16.48
Castes, 1991
% Schedule   9.54            63.66         NA             85.53          94.75         87.70         22.36          30.95          8.08
Tribes, 1991
Literacy Rate  97            60            59             77             95            84             79            73             62
1997(%)
Net State     NA             13.650        58.120         17.630         11.270        17.270         4.460          18.630        16123.830
Domestic                     (97-98)       (96-97)        (96-97)        (95-96)       (96-97)        (95-96)       (98-99)        (98-99)
Product (SI)P
at current
prices, INR
Billions)
Per Capita    126530         13424         6658           8474           13360         11174          9472          5432           14682
SDP/NNP at  (96-97)         (97-98)        (96-97)        (96-97)        (95-96)       (96-97)        (95-96)       (98-99)        (98-99)
current prices
(INR)
(Source: Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CM IE), Bombay & Manpower Profile, India, Yearbook 1999, Institute of Applied Manpower Research)
Table 2.2
Educational Profile of the Project States/UT
State/          A & N      Arunachal    J & K       Meghalaya    Mizoram          Nagaland       Sikidm     Tripura    India
Indicator       Islands    Pradesh
Secondary       12/5.8      19/7.4        165/      31/15          24/12          27/12          6.8/ 3.3    60/25       17947/6717
School                                    60
Enrollment
Total/ Girls
(1997,'0010)
- 31 -



Senior       4/1.8    7.3/2.7      63/      14/6.4      4.8/ 2.0     12/ 5       3.3 /1.4   23/8.7    9294/3387
Secondary                          23
School
Enrollment
Total/ Girls
(1997, 000)
Graduate and   1.8/ 0.9   3.7/ 0.9  4.5/    12.0/ 5.6   8.3/ 3.6     5.9/ 2.4    1.6/ 0.6   15.0/ 5.9   5654/ 2129
above                              0.7
Enrollment
Total/ Girls
(1997, 000)
Industrial    1/198    2/374       37/      9/606       1/300        3/404       1/140    3/508      3665/
Training                           4172                                                              573467
Institutes/
Enrollment
capacity
(1997)
Polyteclhics/   2/180    0/0       4/570   1/ 150       2/170        2/75       0/0       1/125      1135/
Annual                                                                                               186155
Intake
(1997)
{Source: Manpower Profile, India, Yearbook 1999, Institute of Applied Manpower Research)
The project, envisaged on the lines of the Technician Education I & II Projects in India, will provide
assistance to eighteen polytechnics in the industrially and economically underdeveloped, and geographically
remote states of Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and
Tripura and UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands for expanding capacity and improving quality and
efficiency of technician education to meet the specific economic needs of each state/UT. The project will
also aim at increasing access of some disadvantaged sections of society (women, scheduled tribes, and rural
youths) to technician education. The project will promote active interaction of all the polytechnics with the
local industry/services and the community through their involvement in continuing education and
non-formal training of industry personnel, rural artisans, educated unemployed and the school dropouts and
through participation in local developmental activities.
The project will have three components: (i) Developing/expanding capacity to provide increased access
to technician education; (ii) Enhancing quality of education to produce better trained technicians; and
(iii) Improving efficiency through better planning, administration and utilization of the system and
increasing its responsiveness to emerging labor market needs.
Capacity development/expansion will be achieved by: (a) establishing six new co-educational polytechnics
and a skill development center, (b) strengthening twelve existing polytechnics and introducing new
programs, (c) introducing continuing education and non-formal training programs for industry and
community, and (d) providing student and faculty housing facilities.
Quality enhancement will be achieved by: (a) modemizing existing laboratories and workshops, (b)
developing/revising curricula to meet labor market needs as well as imparting entrepreneurial skills, (c)
improving staffing and imparting staff training, (d) increasing utilization of learning resources and media,
and (e) promoting interaction with industry and community.
Efficiency improvement will be achieved by: (a) establishing/strengthening state boards/-
councils/directorates and other support units dealing with technician education to provide better planning,
monitoring and guidance, (b) conducting research studies for systemic refornms, (c) instituting
- 32 -



computer-based project and financial management systems, (d) providing substantial academic, financial
and administrative autonomy with accountability to polytechnics, (e) networking of polytechnics with other
institutions/organizations, and (f) enhancing state-level policy support for technician education.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$48.18 million
Capacity development/expansion
(a)     Establishment of six new co-educational polytechnics and a skills development center
Under the project, six new AICTE-approved co-educational polytechnics (Arunachal Pradesh-l,
Meghalaya-2, Nagaland- 1 and Sikkim-2) will be established. The state of Tripura will establish a Skills
Development Center in its existing polytechnic. Three of the new polytechnics will be in two states (Sikkim
and Arunachal Pradesh) where there are no polytechnics at present. These new polytechnics will have a
distinctive character and will offer programs with high employment potential in the service sector as well as
hi-tech areas such as Information Technology, Mechatronics, Advanced Manufacturing Technology, etc.,
to meet the emerging labor market needs. Twenty-six diploma programs and six post diploma programs,
creating an annual intake capacity of 900 in the six new polytechnics and skills development center will be
supported by the project (Table 2.3). The states propose to adopt best practices in the country in the
development of these polytechnics. The polytechnics will be granted adequate functional autonomy.
Mudti-Point Entry & Credit System (MPE&CS) will be introduced in these polytechnics from the very
beginning. Industry and community would be effectively involved in polytechnic management, program
design and implementation, as well as faculty development. Sikkim proposes to recover a significant
proportion of the operating cost through student tuition fees.
Table 2.3
Proposed Programs in New Coeducational Polytechnics
State             Institution             Proposed Programs (Annual Intake, Duration in Years)
Armnachal        New Polytechnic, Itanagar   -Electrical & Electronic Engineering (30,3)
Praidesh                                  Automobile Engineering (20,3)
Information Technology (30,3)
Costume Design & Garment Technology (20,3)
Travel, Tourism & Hotel Management (20,3)
*Herbal Remedies & Cosmetology (20,3)
Meghalaya         Government Polytechnic,    -Computer Applications (30,3)
Tura                    -Food Processing Technology & Preservation (30,3)
-Medical Electronics (30,3)
Government Polytechnic,  Architectural Assistant (30,3)
Jowai                    Automobile Engineering. (30,3)
Costume Design & Garment Technology (30,3)
Nagaland          ICIT, Mokokchung        *Information Technology (30,2)
Electronics & Computer Maintenance Engineering (30,2)
Telecommunications Engineering (30,2)
- 33 -



Sikkim                                         'Electronics & Hardware Engineering (45,3)
Centre For Computers and    Computer Science & Technology (45,3)
Communications             Telecommunications Technology (45,3)
Technology                  Electronics & Hardware Engineering (Post Diploma) (20, 1.5)
Computer Science & Technology (Post Diploma) (20, 1.5)
Telecommunications Technology (Post Diploma) (20, 1.5)
Advanced Technical         *Mechatronics & Industrial Automation (45,3)
Training Centre           'Tool, Die & Mould Making (45,3)
'Advanced Manufacturing Technology (45,3)
'Mechatronics & Industrial Automation (Post Diploma) (20,1.5)
'Tool, Die & Mould Making (Post Diploma) (20,1.5)
'Advanced Manufacturing Technology (Post Diploma) (20,1.5)
Tripura             Skills Development Centre   'Modem Office Management (30,3)
at                         'Interior Decoration, Handicrafts & Furniture Design (20,2)
Polytechnic Institute,    'Food Processing Technology (15,3)
Narsingarh                 'Computer Science (20, 3)
'Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition (15,3)
Note: The list of programs and intake is indicative and subject to approval by the All India Council for Technical Education.
(b)      Strengthening of twelve existing polytechnics and introduction of new  programs
There are twelve existing polytechnics in the project states/UT (Andaman & Nicobar-2, Jammu &
Kashmir-4, Meghalaya-1, Mizoram-2, Nagaland-2, Tripura-1). Seven of these were established between
15 - 40 years ago and have not received much support for over a decade for any modernization. The other
five have been established more recently but four of these are still operating from temporary sites. Most of
the polytechnics offer programs in three traditional engineering disciplines with very limited workshop and
laboratory facilities. The project will help upgrade the basic infrastructure to enable these polytechnics to
offer high quality training in the traditional as well as new disciplines. The states and UT have prepared
plans with cost estimates for strengthening academic, administrative and residential facilities. The annual
intake in some programs with high demand in the state is proposed to be increased to make the programs
cost-effective. This will increase the annual intake capacity in existing programs by 140 student places
(Table 2.4).
Table 2.4
Increase in Intake in Present Programs in Existing Polytechnics
State                Institution                  Programs (Duration in years)          Present Intake     Proposed Intake
Nagaland             Khelhoshe Polytechnic,       Civil Engineering (3)                 30                 40
Atoizu                       Electrical Engineering (3)            15                30
Mechanical Engineering (3)           15                 30
Women Polytechnic, Kohima    Modem Office Management (3)           15                30
Jammu &              Govemment Women              Computer Engineering (3)              10                 30
Kashmir              Polytechnic, Jammu
Government Women             Computer Engineering (3)              20                30
Polytechnic, Srinagar
Government Polytechnic,      Computer Engineering (3)              10                30
Jammu
- 34 -



Kashmir Govemment             Computer Applications (Post Diploma)    30                45
Polytechnic, Srinagar         *(1.5)
Mizoram               Women Polytechnic, Aizwal     Electronics & Telecommunications (3)   20                 30
Modem Office Practice (3)
20                 30
* Post-diploma will be restructured as a three-year diploma program.
New Programs: To meet the current and emerging manpower needs in the project states/UT, nineteen
Diploma programs and one Post-diploma program (Table 2.5) will be introduced in the existing
polytechnics, creating an additional annual intake capacity of 545 student places over the project period.
Table 2.5
New Programs in Existing Polytechnics
State                       Institution                           Proposed Programs (Annual Intake, Duration in Years)
Andlaman & Nicobar Islands Dr. B. R Ambedkar Polytechnic              *  Marine Engineering (20, 3)
* Refrigeration & Airconditioning (20,3)
* Infomtiation Technology (20, 3)
2nd Govemment Polytechnic                 *  Hotel Management & Catering Technology (20, 3)
Janmnu & Kashmir            Govemment Women's Polytechnic, Jammu      *  Medical Laboratory Technology (30, 3)
* Textile Design (30, 3)
Govemment Women's Polytechnic,            *  Medical Laboratory Technology (30, 3)
Srinagar                                  *  Food Technology (30, 3)
Govemment Polytechnic, Jammu              *  Instrumentation & Control (30, 3)
* Travel & Tourism (45, 3)
Kashmir Govemment Polytechnic,            *  Leather Technology (30, 3)
Srinagar                                  *  Wood Technology (30,3)
Meghalaya                   Shillong Polytechnic                      *  Infomnation Technology (Post-diploma) (20, 2)
* Computer Science & Engineering (30, 3)
Mizoram                     Mizoram Polytechnic, Lunglei              *  Computer Applications (30, 3)
Women's Polytechnic, Aizwal               *  Garment Technology (20, 3)
* Beauty Culture & Cosmetology (20, 3)
Nagaland                    Khelhoshe Polytechnic, Atoizu             *  Automobile Engineering (30, 3)
Women's Polytechnic, Kohima               *  Computer Applications (30, 3)
* Fashion Technology (30, 2)
Note: The list of new programs and intake is indicative, subject to approval by the All India Council for Technical Education.
(c)       Introduction of continuing education and non-formal programs for industry and community
Expansion/introduction of continuing education programs (CEPs), including non-formal training for
inclustry and community, will be an important component of this project. It is expected that about 10,000
persons will benefit through continuing education programs during the project period. The programs will
also help strengthen linkages of polytechnics with industry and community and will spread the impact of
technician education system beyond the organized sector. Tripura will establish a Distance Education
Center to offer courses in Construction Management and Computer Applications with intake capacity of 30
- 35 -



each to cater to the needs of educated youth in remote locations in the state. Andaman & Nicobar will
establish six extension centers for imparting training through distance mode to islanders through V-SAT
connectivity.
(d)    Provision of student and faculty housing facilities
On campus hostel facilities are needed to enable poor students (especially women) from rural areas and
distant locations undertake studies in polytechnics. Some housing facilities are also needed to attract and
retain quality faculty and staff. At the 18 project polytechnics, hostels will be constructed for 1273 men
and 1257 women students, and residences for about 300 faculty and staff.
In summary, the activities which will be supported under the project will increase the total enrollment
capacity of the 18 project polytechnics in the project states and UT by 125% from a present total capacity
of 3595 to about 8100 by the year 2005-2006. In addition, over 2500 persons will be trained every year
through continuing education programs offered by the polytechnics. No increase in enrollment is proposed
in the conventional areas of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering except in Nagaland where the
present intake is very low in these disciplines.
Project Component 2 - US$22.85 million
Quality enhancement
(a)    Modernization of existing laboratories and workshops
At present, the existing polytechnics are poorly equipped to deliver even traditional programs. Under this
component, training facilities in all the existing polytechnics will be modernized. New equipment will be
provided, while obsolete equipment will be replaced and/or modernized. Introduction of computers and
Internet for instructional and managerial functions will be another dimension of modernization. As a result,
about 110 existing workshops and laboratories will be updated and re-equipped, and 12 computer centers
established/strengthened.
(b)    Development/revision of curricula to meet labor market needs
To meet the needs of curriculum development and revision, the project states will adopt different
strategies. Some states have proposed the establishment of Curriculum Development Cells in polytechnics
to revise curricula with the help of faculty, outside experts and industry. Others have proposed to develop
and revise curricula with the help of Technical Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs)/other resource
institutions/consulting agencies. Many states have laid emphasis on development of competency-based
curricula. All curricula will be updated before the academic year 2001-2002 and will provide Multi-Point
Entry & Credit System facilities. Computer education (general and profession specific) will be a
compulsory component of all updated and new curricula. The curricula design will also give due attention
to environmental concerns and development of entrepreneurial and communication skills. Attempts will be
made by all project states to develop a continuing system of curricula updating to meet the changing market
needs, which will be done in close collaboration with the state Boards, the All India Council for Technical
Education and local industry.
(c)    Staffing of polytechnics and provision of staff training
A total of 284 additional teachers will be appointed for the new diploma and post-diploma programs
- 36 -



according to a schedule acceptable to IDA (Table 2.6). The project will also support about 272
non-teaching staff to be appointed against positions created for new polytechnics, new programs and state
units. The States will take action to reduce existing faculty vacancies.
The project will support training of all (550) faculty during the project period (at an average of 4 weeks
per year) through local and foreign training/fellowships. Teacher training in the areas of curriculum
development, education technology, instructional resources design and technological content updating will
be carried out with the assistance of TTTIs and other agencies selected by the states. Some 90 teachers
and officials will be trained abroad to increase their competence in planning, organizing and managing the
system. About 250 teachers will be trained in Indian industries in new technology areas for making
instructional processes more relevant and increasing industry-institution interaction. The project will also
support training of about 500 laboratory and workshop staff.
Table 2.6
Key Additional staff to be appointed during the project (Year-wise)
State/UT                Type of Staff            I _      1      III    IV       V     Total
Ancdaman &          Teaching Staff                    -       2       3       3      4        12
Nicobar Islands
Key Staff for state units*       4                                       4
Arunachal Pradesh   Teaching Staff                   19       7       4       -              30
Key Staff for state units*       4               -       -               4
Jarnmu & Kashmir   Teaching Staff                     2      13      27      37              79
Key Staff for state units*       13      -       -       -               13
Meghalaya           Teaching Staff                   10      13       10      8              41
Key Staff for state units*       4           -       -       -           4
Mizoram             Teaching Staff                    7       3       8                       18
Key Staff for state units*       5               -       -               5
Nagaland            Teaching Staff                   6       13      11                      30
Key Staff for state units*       4               -       -               4
Sikkim              Teaching Staff                   11      12       8      20      10      61
Key Staff for state units*       4       -        -      -       -       4
Tripura             Teaching Staff                    4       9                               13
Key Staff for state units*       4                                       4
- 37 -



NPIU                Key Staff                         7                               =       7
Total               Teaching Staff                   59      72      71      68      14      284
Key Staff for state units/NPIU   49      -       -       -       -       49
* Key staff for state units includes key additional staff at SPIU, DTE, BTE and Council.
All figures for teaching staff relate to key additional staff at project polytechnics.
Figures for first year also include appointments to be made in the preparatory period.
(d)     Increased utilization of learning resources and media
Modernized curricula will also be supported through establishment of a Learning Resource Utilization
Center (LRUC) or modernization of existing libraries to serve as LRUCs in each of the 18 polytechnics.
Under this sub-component of the project, books and learning resources (LRs) will be procured by LRUCs
in polytechnics to increase effectiveness of teaching-learning process. Special emphasis will be on
computer-aided self learning and learning through Internet access to be provided to each LRUC/ library.
Other LRs like video programs, transparencies, slides, models, etc., will also be procured by polytechnics.
In due course, the LRUCs may also undertake development of LRs.
(e)    Promoting interaction with industry and community
A close interaction with industry and community is essential for enhancing quality of training and
increasing effectiveness of the project. Project polytechnics will conduct non-formal training of educated
unemployed, school dropouts, women and urban and rural youth to help them obtain gainful wage/self
employment. Endowed with variety of technologies, each polytechnic will put them to use in non-formal
training and community services. Some of these are automobile maintenance, welding and fabrication,
electrical and electronic equipment maintenance, construction and building maintenance, computing and
data processing, water conservation and harvesting, plumbing, carpentry, furniture repairs and fitting, food
processing, agricultural equipment repairs, etc. After a detailed study, programs suitable for enhancing
traditional skills of tribal community will be offered by the polytechnics. Polytechnics will also help
transfer appropriate technologies to villages. Industry and community will also be involved in planning,
management and development of project polytechnics.
To promote closer interaction with industry and community, each polytechnic will establish an
Industry/Community-Institute-Interaction Cell. The major functions of the Cell will be to: (a) organize
systematic industrial training for students and teachers of polytechnics; (b) facilitate consultations with
industry and community in the areas of curriculum development, instructional material development,
training of students and teachers; (c) facilitate polytechnic's consultancy and community services to assist
industries and community in problem-solving; (d) organize formal and non-formnal training programs for
working technicians, artisans, educated youth, etc.; (e) conduct or organize research studies for gathering
data useful for technician education planning and curriculum planning; (f) provide counseling and
placement services to students for employment/self-employment; and (g) involve industry and community in
the governance and financing of polytechnic education.
The training and upgrading of teaching staff, modernization of curricula, equipment and facilities,
increased use of learning resources and media, and intense interaction with industry and community would
improve the quality of trainees graduating from the polytechnics. It is expected that by the end of the
project, about 550 teachers and 500 other staff would be trained, the curricula for all the existing programs
- 38 -



upclated and those for new programs developed and implemented, and about 110 outdated
workshops/laboratories modernized. In addition, networking and Internet facilities will be provided in all
polytechnics.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.05 million
Efficiency improvement
(a)    Establishment/strengthening of state boards/councils/directorates and other support units
dealing with technician education
Under this project sub-component, state Boards/Councils/Directorates of Technical Education (DTEs) will
be established or strengthened to increase effectiveness and better management of the technical education
system. For the purpose of project implementation, State Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) will be
established in each state. The SPIUs will be provided with duly trained staff, equipment and facilities for
effiicient implementation of the project. They will be assisted by essential support staff and
consultants/consulting agencies as needed. The project will also support the National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU), which will be responsible for guidance, coordination and monitoring of the
preject. The NPIU will facilitate periodic reviews and monitoring by the Government of India (GOI) and
IDA. About 41 key additional staff will be appointed in the state level units and the NPIU. The project will
also support training of the staff of Bureau of Technical Education/National Project Directorate in the
Department of Secondary Education and Higher Education, state Boards/Councils/DTEs, SPIUs, TTTIs
ancl NPIU in India and abroad. Such training would focus on education system reforms, project design and
implementation, evaluation and monitoring, economic analysis, systems management, MIS, and other
related areas.
(b)    Research studies for systemic reforms
Under this project sub-component, a number of research studies including impact studies, tracer studies,
formative evaluation studies, equipment and space utilization studies, training needs analyses, action
research, etc., will be conducted by the states and the NPIU. TTTIs and other resource institutions, as
needed, will assist NPIU and states in carrying out these studies. The main objectives of these research
studies would be to: (a) identify systems and processes for effective administration/ management of
technician education system, (b) evaluate effectiveness of systemic reforms undertaken in the project, (c)
collect and analyze data on employment profile of polytechnic graduates, (d) identify and suggest
mid-course corrections through formative evaluation of the project; and (e) need analysis/ impact studies
under industry/community - institute interaction.
(c)    Development and institution of computer-based project and financial management systems
Under this project sub-component, a LACI-compliant computer-based project and financial management
system will be instituted at SPIUs/ DTEs, as well as at polytechnics. State and polytechnic staff will be
trained to effectively manage the computer-based systems. Polytechnics with the help of SPIUs are
expected to institute and regularly use the MIS developed by NPIU. Investment in this sub-component is
expected to inculcate a culture of data-based decision making and make polytechnics more efficient in
planning and management. The system of on-line data transfer will make it possible for NPIU to monitor
and coordinate implementation of the project in these remote locations
- 39 -



(d)    Provision of substantial academic, financial and administrative autonomy with accountability
to project polytechnics
Provision of significant academic, financial and administrative autonomy with full accountability to all
project polytechnics is a key policy element of the project. The extent of autonomy and methods of
achieving it will vary from state to state and will be achieved in a phased manner during the project period.
A significant achievement of this goal is expected by March 2003. This will be monitored continuously
and in-depth at the mid-term and final reviews. The main purposes of restructuring the internal
management of polytechnics are to: (a) secure the academic autonomy to introduce Multi-Point Entry &
Credit System, introduce new need-based programs, introduce assessment reforms and award their own
diploma; (b) secure the administrative autonomy to appoint faculty and staff and manage internal affairs of
polytechnic; and (c) secure the financial autonomy to mange their finances within the overall approved
allocation. Increased autonomy will go hand-in-hand with increased accountability of the polytechnics and
teachers.
In specific terms, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim will grant full autonomy to their polytechnics. The
polytechnics of Andaman & Nicobar Islands will also receive a high degree of empowerment. Nagaland
will grant substantial degree of academic and administrative freedom to its polytechnics with a modest level
of financial autonomy. Jammu & Kashmir, Meghalaya and Mizoram will introduce autonomy in stages
reaching a significant level by the third year of the project. In Tripura, the existing polytechnic will be
granted a modest degree of autonomy. All states will define the precise nature, level and a time-frame for
granting of autonomy in their Detailed Project Reports.
(e)    Networking of project polytechnics with other institutions/organizations
In the increasingly interconnected world, networking of the project institutions is a necessity. Under this
sub-component of the project, the project polytechnics will be networked with extension centers (as in the
case of Andaman & Nicobar Islands), state headquarters, SPIU, NPIU, resource institutions like the TTTIs
and Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs), institutes of higher learning in neighborhood like the Indian
Institutes of Technology (IlTs) and North Eastern Regional Institute of Science & Technology (NERIST),
and Government of India (GOI). The process of networking will be through Internet and e-mail
connectivity.
The main objectives of networking are: (a) sharing of expertise, educational resources and innovative ideas,
(b) benefiting from distance education programs of networked resource institutions, (c) providing training
through networked extension centers, (d) facilitating on-line data transfer to SPIU, NPIU and GOI, and (e)
facilitating student self-learning.
(f)    Enhancing state-level policy support for technician education
Under this sub-component of the project, the main objective will be to enhance state-level policy support
for innovations like institutional autonomy, program flexibility, industry and community involvement in
governance of institutions, internal revenue generation (IRG) reforms and student assessment reforms.
In summary, the internal and external efficiency of the technician education system is expected to be
improved considerably by the proposed investments. It is expected that student pass rate and employment
rate would go up, decision-making in the states would be information-based, the system would be more
responsive and effective, industry/community- institution linkages would improve, and the polytechnics
would function more efficiently.
- 40 -



Summary of the project targets by state is shown in Table 2.7.
Table 2.7
Project Targets by State
Component          A & N    Arunachal    J & K      Meghalaya    Mizoram    Nagaland    Sikkim    Tripura
Islands    Pradesh
Capiacity Expansion/
Development
Number. of new               -          I          -           2            -          1          2          -
Polytechnics
Number of new Programs      4           6          8       7 + l(PD)        3          6         6 +         5
6(PD)
Additional Student Places    240      420         990         670         270         585        1050       280
% of Women Students         45         45         56          29           68         47          40        40
% of Scheduled Tribe (&     11         70          7          95           95         98          50        47
Scheduled Caste)
Studients
AdcLitional Hostel Places   42        100         81          300          120        90         540         0
(Men)
Additional Hostel Places    24         60         448         120          150        195        260         0
(Women)
Nurnber of Faculty           8         17         33          31           25          26         38         0
Residences
Numnber of Staff             4         10          18         45           24          18         32         0
Residences
Continuing Education        150       300         285         300          100        640        380        300
Beneficiaries
Comnmunity Program         1050       570         1810        900         600         1160       600        450
Beneficiaries
Quality Enhancement
% of Teaching Posts         90         90         90          90           90          90         90        90
Filled
Numnber of Teachers         45         30         190          74          48          53         61        48
Trained
Number of Technical         61         21         265          45          25          38         37        31
Support Staff Trained
- 41 -



Number of Labs &              13         0           55           13           18          19          0          9
Workshops Modernized
% of Curricula Updated       100        100         100          100          100         100         100        100
within last 5 years
No. of Programs with          10         6           28           12           8           10          12         6
MPE&CS
Efficiency Improvement
Average time for             3.4        3.4          3.4         3.4          3.4         3.4*        3.4        3.4
completing diploma
(years)
% of student seats filled    95          95          95          95           95           95         95         95
Dropout Rate, %               3          5           5            3            1           5           5          2
% Students Employed/         65          65          65          65           65           65         65         65
Self employed within
One Year
Time taken to Publish         4          4           4            4           3.5          4           4          4
Results (weeks)
No. of Polys with             2           1          4            3            2           3           2          1
Autonomy
Intemal Revenue             2.81        1.68        14.98        2.84         3.13        3.95       56.13     1.81
Generated (INR Million)
PD: Post Diploma
* For two year duration programs, it will be 2.25 years.
INS: Information not supplied
- 42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
L,FaI P.OM1n T.ta
Proiect Cost By C.ompomnt               US $million     :fln    US "$nilin
Capacity Expansion                                      40.49         3.11        43.60
Quality Enhancement                                     18.61         2.47        21.08
Efficiency Improvement                                   7.65         0.67         8.32
Total Baseline Cost                                     66.75         6.25        73.00
Physical Contingencies                                  4.42         0.37         4.79
Price Contingencies                                     1.91         0.38         2.29
Total Project Costs            73.08         7.00         80.08
Total Financing Required             73.08         7.00        80.08
l_                        TOWl
Project Cost By ctegpry           -   US$miiIon -US $m ln   U $miion
Goods                                                     22.04          3.74        25.78
Works                                                     24.40          1.36        25.76
Training & Consultants                                     7.06          1.90         8.96
Miscellaneous                                             19.58         0.00         19.58
Total Project Costs    73.08          7.00        80.08
Total Financing Required    73.08          7.00        80.08
- 43 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
The Rationale for Public Investment in Technician Training
Investment in technician education is required to produce the pool of skilled manpower that would
encourage private firms to modernize their technology and invest in industries with high growth potential.
Information provided by state project planning teams indicate that there are no private training facilities
offering the programs that are being proposed in the project. Some local entrepreneurs currently offer
short-term training programs of variable quality in specific areas such as use of software packages, but
these do not meet the broader skill needs associated with economic development and growth. Private sector
involvement in the provision of technician training is unlikely to be forthcoming in the project states for
various reasons. The modem manufacturing sector and the average size of firms is small in the project
states. Private entrepreneurs lack the know-how, especially in new technologies, and the capital required
for establishing modem training institutions. Due to the small size of the population and limited
enrollments, unit costs in the polytechnics in these states are higher than in other Indian states.
The absence of training capacity in the private sector is one justification for government intervention in the
provision of technician training. However, the strongest argument for government involvement is to
promote equity and enable secondary school leavers in these economically underdeveloped states to enhance
their earnings and improve their chances of getting employment in industries or sectors with high growth
potential. Per capita income in all the project states is below the all-India average; in Tripura, Jammu &
Kashmir and Meghalaya, the per capita income is between 50-80% lower than the all-India average.
About 35% of the population of these states lives below the poverty line (Table 4.1). The project states
have achieved relatively high enrollment ratios at the primary and secondary levels, as well as high female
literacy rates. The absence of high quality training facilities in the states prevents secondary school leavers
from acquiring the skills required for productive employment in modern industries.
One alternative to establishing new polytechnics and introducing new programs in existing polytechnics is
to expand an existing Central Government program, under which eligible students from these states are
granted admission in polytechnics located in other states, if the program is not offered in their home state.
However, the high cost of transportation, boarding and lodging as well as other cultural factors dissuade
many students from studying in other states, leading to under utilization of the quotas and high drop out
rates. In particular, women students and those youths from poor tribal families are unlikely to train in
other states. Thus, although annual unit recurrent (institutional) costs are lower in the other states (due to
larger enrollment size), the total cost of training under this scheme is much higher due to the high level of
dropouts as well as the additional private costs. Expansion of this scheme to allow higher quotas for the
project states in the north-east is considered unviable due to these reasons, as well as reluctance on the part
of the other states to accept these students. By providing training facilities in these states, the project will
enable women and poor tribal students who have been deterred in the past from enrolling in polytechnic
programs to acquire higher-order technical skills.
-44 -



Table 4.1
Project States/UT  Poverty and Literacy Rates
States/UT           Poverty Ratio   Literacy Rate             (1995-96)
(%) (1993-94)     (1997) %      Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER)
Female        11-14 years     6-11 years*
Arunachal Pradesh                39.3             48             53.3            110.0
Meghalaya                        37.9            74              48.6            114.4
Mizoram                          25.7            95              67.5           118.1
Nagaland                         37.9            77              51.9           127.3
Tripura                          39.0             67             62.0            123.5
Sikkim                           41.4            72              50.7            110.6
Jamnmu & Kashmir                 25.2             48             NA               NA
Andaman & Nicobar                34.5             94             NA               NA
* GER over 100 are due to over-age and under-age children enrolled.  NA- data not available
Cost-benefit analysis
There is insufficient information regarding labor market outcomes (age-earnings profiles, unemployment
rates, etc. for each of the project states to do a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis. The reverse
cost-benefit method has been used to identify the earnings differential that would be required to yield a 10%
rate of return on project investments. These earnings differentials have been compared with actual earnings
of polytechnic graduates in various disciplines in other states, using data from tracer studies.
On the basis of the indicative project costs provided at appraisal, and using costs incurred on academic
activities alone (i.e. excluding costs incurred on residential accommodation and the DTE/SPIU), the
average increase in earnings of graduates (over the earnings of secondary school leavers) required to yield a
10%/;a return on investment is in the range of INR 2,800-7,400 per month (Table 4.2). According to project
preparation teams, the average earnings of school leavers is INR 1,500 per month. Tracer studies,
condiucted in other states as part of the earlier two Bank-assisted projects, indicate that the average initial
earnings of polytechnic graduates is about INR 3,500-8000 per month, with substantial variations across
disciplines. In principle, over their working life, graduates of project polytechnics, if employed, could
secure an average earnings differential over secondary school graduates that justifies the projected
expenditures on academic activities.
- 45 -



Table 4.2
Training Costs and Required Earnings Differentials
Polytechnic                              Per Student per year (INR)                     Required Monthly
Earnings
Differential (INR)
Recurrent Cost    Capital Cost    Forgone Earnings    Total Cost
A & N Islands
Ambedkar Poly           47,089           64,404            6,000            117,493           3,740
2nd Govt. Poly          81,920          146,805            6,000           234,726            7,472
Arunachal Pradesh
New Poly Itanagar       48,063           55,556            6,000            109,620           3,490
Jammu & Kashmir
Govt. Women's Poly,     60,283           62,695            6,000            128,978           4,106
Jammu
Govt. Women's Poly,     67,398           44,341            6,000            117,740           3,748
Srinagar
Govt. Poly, Jammu       56,855           36,578            6,000            99,433            3,165
Govt. Poly, Srinagar    57,871           38,556            6,000            102,428           3,261
Meghalaya
Shillong Polytechnic   42,278            55,785            6,000           104,064            3,313
Govt. Poly, Tura        73,185           71,395            6,000            150,580           4,793
Govt. Poly, Jowai       73,185           58,708            6,000            137,893           4,390
Mizoram
Women's Poly,           53,464           86,612            6,000            146,076           4,650
Aizwal
Mizoram Polytechnic,    33,836           83,304            6,000            123,140           3,920
Lunglei
Sikkim
Advanced Technical      33,104           61,198            6,000            100,302           3,193
Training Centre
Centre for Computers
and Communications      36,067           48,293            6,000            90,361            2,876
Technology
Tripura
Polytechnic Institute,  42,411           40,622            6,000            89,033             2,834
Narsingarh
Note: It is assumed that Secondary school leavers who are eligible for entering polytechnics could have eamed on average INR 500 per month, if they
had not joined the polytechnic program.
While this analysis shows that the proposed investments are likely to produce sufficient returns if graduates
receive earnings comparable to those in other states, actual economic returns will clearly depend on the
employment rate of graduates. The success of the project, judged in terms of economic returns therefore
depends to a great extent on the availability of relevant jobs and thus on the overall economic environment
and policies to stimulate growth.
- 46 -



Internal Efficiency
The above calculation on required earnings differentials assumes that project polytechnics will improve
internal efficiency. Currently, actual enrollment is between 60-70% of sanctioned capacity and pass rates
are between 50-70%. It has been assumed that enrollments will be at least 75% of sanctioned capacity and
pass rate will be 80%. Should internal efficiency be lower than these figures, the unit cost of producing a
graduate would be higher, and would lower the returns to the project. The project states/UT have agreed
that a high level of internal efficiency will be maintained and monitored through appropriate indicators
(admnissions as a percent of intake capacity, dropout rates and pass rates). This will require a major change
in the functioning of existing polytechnics where actual enrollment is below sanctioned capacity. All
polytechnics have undertaken that sanctioned student places will be filled with talented and motivated
students by ensuring that programs cater to student demand and through better marketing of programs.
Employment Prospects for Polytechnic Graduates
Analysis of recent demographic and economic trends suggest that employment prospects for polytechnic
graduates are difficult within the project states because the modem sector of the economy is small and
growing slowly. The extremely small size of firms also inhibits the rapid diffusion of new production
technology. However, recent Central Government initiatives in some of the project states are likely to
improve the economic environment and promote more rapid industrial growth.
Labor market data collected by the National Technical Manpower Information System (NTMIS) reveal
that a fairly long period is required for absorption of a cohort of polytechnic graduates. In Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura, it took three years or more for all polytechnic graduates in the three
traditional engineering disciplines (civil, mechanical and electrical engineering) to get employment. In
Jamnmu & Kashmir, it took four years or more for all graduates in architecture, electronics and
comrnunication, and the three traditional engineering disciplines to get jobs. These data relate to students
who graduated in 1994.
Nation-wide data collected through tracer studies which tracked graduates from a sample of polytechnics
from 1993/94 onwards have shown that, averaging across all disciplines, less than 40% of students
obtained employment in the first year after graduation in 1997/98. These studies were conducted as part of
the Bank-financed Technician Education I and II Projects. Moreover, in Assam, one of the states in the
Nordt-East which is relatively less industrialized and faces several constraints on economic growth similar
to the project states, only 29% of graduates obtained employment within one year in 1997/98; the
comparable figure in 1994/95 was 23% (Table 4.3). This low employment rate is apparent not only in the
traditional engineering disciplines, but also in the newer programs.
- 47 -



Table 4.3
Percentage of Polytechnic Graduates Obtaining Employment within One Year
Disciplines                  National Average       Assam                   Assam
1998             1994-95                1997-98
Civil Engineering                  32                 20                      30
Electrical Engineering             31                 25                      29
Mechanical Engineering             49                 25                      25
Electronics Communication          24                 25                      30
Computer Science                    30                27                      28
Automobile Engineering             48                 n.a.                   n.a.
Office Management                  43                 25                      29
All programs                        39                24                      29
Source: Technical Teachers' Training Institute (1999) National Report on Employment Status of Polytechnic Pass outs in India and TTTI Calcutta
(1999) Report on Tracer Study on Employment Status of Polytechnic Pass outs in the Eastern Region
Labor market data for polytechnic graduates in the project states are not available. Over the last decade,
formal sector employment in these states has grown slowly or stagnated. Between two-thirds to three
quarters of the total workforce in each of the project states is engaged in agriculture. Less than 5% of the
workforce is employed in manufacturing, while about 20% is employed in services other than trade and
transport. A significant feature of the north-eastern states is that even in the urban workforce, less than
10% is engaged in manufacture while over 50% is in services
Formal sector employment accounts for a small proportion of the total workers, especially of
non-agricultural workers. The overwhelming share of formal sector employment is accounted for by the
public sector. In absolute terms, the number of private sector employees in the formal sector is exceedingly
small; the range lies between 2000 in Mizoram to 14,000 in Jammu & Kashmir. On the other hand,
employment in the public sector ranged from 33,000 in Andaman & Nicobar Islands to 204,000 in Jammu
& Kashmir.
The project states have a narrow industrial base and there has been no significant large scale development
by the private sector in the last five decades. Agriculture contributes between 24-35% of state Net
Domestic Product in all the project states/UT, except Sikkim where its share was 51%. The share of
manufacturing is less than 5% in all the states. The other main sectors of the economy are construction,
public administration and "other services" (mainly education and health services). Output has increased in
all states at over 5% per annum during the nineties, but much of this growth is due to the growth of public
administration and other services. The growth rate of per capita state domestic product (SDP) in the
nineties was between 3-5% per annum in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura, and less than 2% per
annum in Meghalaya and Jammu and Kashmir.
-48 -



While the past trends in output and employment suggest that the employment prospects for polytechnic
graduates in the proposed states are limited, several initiatives of the Central and state governments, if
implemented, are expected to spur economic growth and employment in the medium term. These include:
* encouragement to the tourist industry in the north-eastern states is likely to lead to demand for more
hotels and consequently for specialized skills in the hotel and catering industry, and related personal
services.
*   a Central Government investment package of INR 10 billion mainly in infrastructure, which is intended
to foster private sector development to exploit rich natural resources of the states.
*   office automation of state government offices.
* introduction of Internet services.
The above discussion indicates that the broad strategy of the project is consistent with the existing
economic structure and anticipated patterns of economic change in the medium term. This includes:
*   upgrading the quality of existing traditional programs (civil, mechanical and electrical engineering)
without expanding enrollment capacity in these disciplines. The demand for these graduates are in core
occupations. Expected benefits will accrue by increasing the employability and earnings of graduates.
*   introducing programs in new disciplines for service sector occupations that are in demand throughout
the economy - examples are computerized office management, personal services.
*   introducing programs in strategic growth areas such as information technology, mechatronics, etc.
where skills may take time to develop and where labor mobility will increase graduate earnings. Of the
new programs being offered, 16 are in computer engineering/applications, information technology and
telecommunications and graduates can be expected to obtain employment fairly quickly, especially as
there is no training capacity in the private sector.
* introducing programs in state-specific potential growth areas (tourist industry in the north-eastern
states, handicrafts in Tripura, marine engineering in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, etc.)
In general, however, progress in employment outcomes will depend to a large extent on the environment
that is created to promote overall economic growth in these industrially under-developed states. Project
states/UT have agreed that appropriate employment of graduates within a reasonable time frame will be
promoted by Industry/Community- Institute Interaction Cell, student advisory services, on-the-job training,
interaction with industry and community and frequent revision of curricula to respond to changing labor
market needs. It has been agreed with project states/UT and NPIU that the employment rate and earnings of
graduates will be one of the key performance indicators. Baseline data on these indicators will be collected
imrnediately after project launch using tracer studies which are expected to be completed by August 31,
20CI 1, and data on these indicators will be collected regularly during implementation and at the end of the
project to monitor project outcomes.
State Finances and Fiscal Impact of the Project
All the project states (with the exception of the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands) are
special category states, which are almost entirely dependent on Central transfers to meet both plan and
non-plan expenditures. (The budget of the Union Territory of A&N Islands is part of the Central
Government budget). For these states, combined Central transfers (Central taxes plus grants) account for
nearly 90% of total revenue receipts. Consequently, the total volume of expenditures, and especially the
annrual plan allocations, are determined by the size of Central assistance in each year. While the state
government has, in principle, the right to determine the inter-sectoral non-plan allocations, in practice there
is little room for maneuver, given the preponderance of salaries in the non-plan expenditures.
- 49 -



Counterpart funding. In effect, this means that each government's annual counterpart funding for the
project, which has to be obtained from the State Plan funds, will depend on the volume of Central
assistance for the state's Annual Plan. On average, each state will have to contribute between INR 5-18
million each year towards the project. The expected annual counterpart funding for this project will entail
an increase of 1-5% over the 1999/2000 level of Plan expenditure on total education for each state. Hence,
the provision of counterpart funding should not be a problem; however, given the near total dependence on
Central assistance, the state's share of annual project expenditures should be taken into account when the
Central Government determines the total volume of Central assistance for each state's Annual Plan.
Necessary approvals of the Central Government's Planning Commission and the state Finance Departments
have been, or are in the process of being obtained. The required state government budgetary allocation for
next year has been provided in the Annual Plan for 2000/01 in each state. The state government's own
contribution, and the transfer of IDA funds from the Central Government for this project, will be shown as
separate line items in the states' annual budget for Technical Education in each of the project years.
There will be some additional financial obligations as students from Scheduled Tribes studying in
polytechnic are eligible for scholarships (the annual value of scholarships is about INR 5000 per year).
Over 90% of students in Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland, 70% of students in Arunachal Pradesh are
expected to be from scheduled tribes. The additional annual expenditure is expected to be in the range of
INR 2-15 million depending on the state. The Central Government's Ministry of Social Welfare provides
funds to state govemrnments under a Centrally Sponsored Scheme for scholarships for Scheduled Tribe
students.
Financial sustainability. Annual recurrent costs arising at the end of the project period will be bome by the
state governments. The incremental recurrent costs of the project will represent between 1-3% of projected
non-plan expenditures on total education (assuming that non-plan expenditures grow at 4% p.a. from
1999/2000 levels). Maintenance of past trends in education expenditure should be sufficient to ensure that
incremental expenditures are met. However, the sub-sectoral allocation to technical education which is
currently low will need to be significantly enhanced by the end of the project period in order to sustain
recurrent liabilities. Currently, the expenditure on technical education in these states is minimal or
non-existent (except for Jammu and Kashmir which has two engineering colleges and four govenmment
polytechnics). In the last year of the project (2004/5), the incremental recurrent costs are estimated to be
between INR 10 million (Tripura) to INR 40 million (Meghalaya). In Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland,
the incremental recurrent costs will represent a three- to four-fold increase over the expenditure on technical
education in 1999/2000. In Jammu & Kashmir, the incremental recurrent costs will represent about a 20%
increase in over the expenditure on technical education in 1999/2000. (In Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim,
there is currently no allocation for technical education).
Although the absolute amounts involved are relatively small and should not pose a problem for project
sustainability, much depends on the continuation of Central assistance to these states on the same scale as
until now. It is not certain how the Centre's attempts at fiscal adjustment will change total financial
allocations to project states. The ability of the state governments to sustain recurrent costs will be adversely
affected if Central assistance should decline. Several measures have been taken by the project authorities to
ensure internal revenue generation and reduce dependence on state government funds and ensure financial
sustainability. These include enhanced cost-recovery through student fees and undertaking
consultancies/providing services to industry and community.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
Operational Period (Calender year of expense)
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
2000-2001        2002         2003         2004    2005-2006
Project Costs
(US$million, including contingencies)
Investment Costs       8.79        15.64        18.78        13.19         4.10
Recuirrent Costs       2.58         2.98         3.99         4.70         5.34
Total      11.37        18.62       22.76         17.89         9.44
Financing Sources
(% of total costs)
IDA                    86%          88%          84%          82%          53%
Govenments             14%          12%          16%          18%          47%
Total      100%         100%         100%         100%         100%
-51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements. The procurement arrangements to be undertaken for the project will be the
responsibility of each project state and the union territory (UT) for their respective components and of the
Government of India (GOI) for the central components. The states, UT and the GOI will be responsible for
their respective procurement activities either directly or through the hiring of procurement agents or
consultants to assist them.
Civil Works (US$25.76 million). The civil works program encompasses extensions to 12 existing
polytechnics and construction of 6 new polytechnics, 6 Directorates of Technical Education, 151 staff
quarters, 178 faculty houses, and hostels to create 1123 seats for men and 1197 seats for women students.
In addition, renovations and alterations would be carried out in several existing buildings. The approximate
unit construction cost in most states is estimated at US$200-210 per square meter (about 20% higher than
that in most states of India). In the UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, the construction cost is expected to
be still higher by about 20%. Construction costs are high due to remote locations and difficult terrain of
the states, need to transport most construction materials from distant places and the limited number of fair
weather days for construction.
Due to a statutory requirement, Jammu & Kashmir will utilize the services of JKPCC (a Government of
J&K undertaking) as the construction agency in Srinagar on direct contract basis (as permitted under the
Bank financed India Population Project VII), and as a procurement agent in Jammu on sole source basis.
Mizoram and Tripura will engage their Public Works Departments (PWDs) for procurement of civil works.
In Sikkim, the engineering wing of its Department of Education will be responsible for construction under
the project. The other states and UT will appoint consulting firms as procurement agents. Centage
charges, if any, for services rendered by the state PWDs/State Departments for implementation of
construction will not be financed under the project. Similarly, JKPCC will not be paid any fee for its
supervision services at Srinagar; it will, however, be paid up to about 10% of the estimated cost of works
for its services as a procurement agency in Janimu.
The majority of civil works contracts are expected to be in the range of US$300,000-1,000,000.
Procurement through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will not be feasible due to the scattered
location of works in remote and hilly areas of the country. There are also entry restrictions in some states
for foreigners due to security reasons. Most of the civil works would be procured through the National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) method. Contracts for repairs, etc., each not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent
value (up to an aggregate of US$2.58 million) will be executed soliciting three quotations or Unit/Piece
Rate System or Force Account procedure.
Goods (US$25.78 million). This procurement category includes equipment & vehicles; furniture; and
books, software, learning resources & educational materials. Procurement of equipment and furniture (for
laboratories, workshops, libraries, computer centers, maintenance cells, community programs, MIS and
networking, offices, hostels and residences, and campus facilities) will be phased on an annual basis in
accordance with the requirement of the project activities, and will be closely sequenced with the civil works
program. Vehicles are required by polytechnics for institutional activities and by DTEs/SPIUs for project
management purpose. The cost for equipment and vehicles is estimated at US$19.77 million; for furniture
at US$2.55 million and for books, software, learning resources and educational materials at US$3.46
- 52 -



million.
The implementing agencies in the project states and UT do not have the experience of procurement through
ICB or NCB methods. For ensuring well-planned and efficient procurement of goods, the states and UT
will appoint procurement agencies by September 2000 to carry out procurement planning, detailing of
technical specifications, packaging, developing laboratory and workshop layouts as required, ensuring
timely installation and commissioning of equipment, and for arranging/securing training of teachers and
staff on the use and maintenance of equipment as needed.
Because of the limited number of common programs, and state-wise decentralized procurement, there is no
scope for bulking to form ICB packages. Procurement of equipment will thus mainly be through NCB
(US$16.23 million). Equipment, not exceeding in aggregate US$1.80 million, may also be procured
through National Shopping method in packages costing less than US$50,000 each. Equipment of
proprietary nature, up to an aggregate of US$0.86 million, may be procured under contracts (not
exceeding value of US$10,000 each) placed directly with the suppliers of such equipment. Small items in
pac]kages of US$500 or less, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million, may also be procured by direct
contracting.
Vehicles, up to an aggregate of US$0.67 million, will be procured through National Shopping under
contracts, each costing US$100,000 or less. Since the value of most of the items to be procured under
furniture at any one time by individual states and UT is expected to be below US$50,000, these will be
procured under National Shopping, up to an aggregate of US$2.55 million.
Because of the low volumes of different books, proprietary software, learning resources and educational
materials to be procured under a very wide variety of subjects, preparation of attractive packages to solicit
quotations/bids would not be possible; direct contracting with the authorized dealers/suppliers would be the
most appropriate method for procurement to the extent of US$3.46 million with each contract not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent.
Services (US$8.96 million). The project will fund services required for project preparation and
implementation such as training and fellowship programs, workshops and seminars, and for conduct of
research studies. In addition, services of consultants, both individuals and firms (engaged as per G
uidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers) for procurement of
civil works and goods including procurement planning and development of technical specifications, and for
development and implementation of academic aspects of the project will also be funded under the project.
Miscellaneous Costs (US$19.58 million). These will be financed on a declining basis (80% of
expenditure until November 30, 2002; 65% of expenditure until November 30, 2004 and 25% thereafter)
and! will cover salaries of agreed additional faculty and staff, stipends/scholarships, expenses incurred on
operation and maintenance (operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles
and offices, maintenance of buildings, travel expenses and office expenses) and consumables such as
laboratory and workshop supplies, telephone, stationary, electricity, water, etc.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Bank-financed works and goods will be procured using the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January, August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999. Services will be procured using the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The procurement
- 53 -



methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A below. For all
procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bid documents (developed by the New Delhi Office)
shall be used.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$50,000 equivalent will be carried out following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Each contract estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or less will be procured following procedures acceptable to the Bank: (a) under
quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors; (b) unit/piece rate system through qualified
contractors, or (c) through Force Account, as last resort.
Contract for the purchase of goods valued more than US$50,000 but less than US$200,000 may be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items or groups of items valued at US$
50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures.
Propriety equipment of US$ 10,000 or less per contract may be procured through direct shopping. Books,
propriety software, learning resources and educational materials of value US$50,000 or less per contract
may be procured through direct contracting. Other items or small groups of items valued at less than
US$500 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting.
For procurement of equipment, vehicles and furniture, DGS&D rate contracts will be treated "equar' to
National Shopping.
Contracts for procurement of consumables, maintenance of equipment and vehicles will be awarded
through: (a) direct contracting; or (b) National Shopping procedures.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the Credit under the project would follow procedures satisfactory to
the Bank/Association, which are:
I. Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force (as
amended from time to time) shall be used for bidding.
2. Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at least
30 days prior to the deadline for submission of bids.
3. No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders, state-owned
enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
4. Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of price with
the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
5. Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the state/UT, extension of bid
validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association: (a) for the first
request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for extension
irrespective of the period.
6. Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association. The system
of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
7. Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB procedures.
Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping procedures.
- 54 -



Table A: Procurement Arrangements /a
(Total Costs in US$ Millions)
National
Competitive      Other
Bidding     Methods /b     N.B.F.       Total
Civil Works                                   23.18          2.58           -         25.76
(20.87)       (2.32)                   (23.18)
Furniture                                       -            2.55           -          2.55
(2.04)                   (2.04)
Equipment                                      16.23         2.86           -         19.10
(12.99)       (2.29)                   (15.28)
Vehicles                                         -           0.67                      0.67
(0.54)                   (0.54)
Books & LRs                                     -            3.46           -          3.46
(3.46)                   (3.46)
Total (Goods)                                 16.23          9.55                     25.78
(12.99)       (8.33)                   (21.32)
Local Consultancy Services                       -           4.91           -          4.91
(4.91)                   (4.91)
Lccal Fellowships/Training                     -            2.15           -          2.15
(2.15)                   (2.15)
Foreign Fellowships/Training                                  1.90                     1.90
(1.90)                   (1.90)
Total (Services)                                             8.96                      8.96
(8.96)                   (8.96)
Salaries of Additional Staff                    -            9.28           -          9.28
(5.31)                   (5.31)
Stipends                                        -            0.95           -          0.95
(0.48)                   (0.48)
Consumables                                     -            2.89           -          2.89
(1.70)                   (1.70)
Olperation & Maintenance                        -            6.46           -          6.46
(3.93)                   (3.93)
Total (Miscellaneous)                           -       ^   19.58                     19.58
(11.43)                  (11.43)
TOTAL                                         39.42          40.67          -         80.08
(33.85)       (31.03)                  (64.88)
Notes: /a Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
/b Include civil works to be procured through National Shopping, Unit/Piece Rate system and Force
- 55 -



Account; goods to be procured through National Shopping and Direct Contracting; services of faculty & staff;
stipends; training & fellowship programs; technical assistance services; consumables and operation &
maintenance.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consulifta
Servces
Expedid OtC Rs             08 i;     SF    i::         -CQ          Other    WN,F,.  rotalCot
C ate ory                                                        _  _ _ _    _  _  _    _  _ _
A. Firms            2.00      0.00       0.15      0.00       2.10      0.00       0.00      4.25
(2.00)    (0.00)    (0.15)    (0.00)    (2.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.25)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.66       0.00      0.66
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.66)      (0.00)     (0.66)
Total   2.00      0.00      0.15       0.00      2.10       0.66       0.00      4.91
(2.00)    (0.00)    (0.15)     (0.00)    (2.10)     (0.66)    (0.00)     (4.91)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review will be required for: (a) all contracts for works with an estimated value of more than
US$300,000 equivalent as well as the first NCB contract each for goods and works regardless of the value;
(b) consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or
more for individuals; and (c) the Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$12,000 or more per contract in the case of firms, and the equivalent of US$5,000 or more
per contract in the case of individuals.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category Contract Value (Threshold) Procurement Method Contracts Subject to Prior
Review/Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior
Review
Civil Works          (a) Civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or less per contract,
up-to an aggregate not
exceeding US$2.58 million
equivalent may be executed by:
- 56 -



(i) Comparison of bids   National Shopping    Post Review only
soliciated from at least 3  procedures
qualified contractors
(ii) Unit/Piece Rate System   Rate Contract  Post Review only
through qualified contractors
(iii) By Force Account as a   Force Account  Post Review only
last resort in a manner
satisfactory to the Association
(b) Civil works estimated to    National Competitive  First works contract under
cost more than the equivalent of Bidding (NCB)  NCB regardless of value and
US$50,000 per contract.                        all contracts above
US$300,000 by prior review in
accordance with paragraphs 2
and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines. All others by post
review.
Goods
(a) ]Equipment      (i) US$50,000 equivalent or   National Shopping
less per contract, up to an  procedures (includes   Post Review only
aggregate not exceeding    DGS&D rate
US$1.80 million equivalent.   contracts).
(ii) Proprietary equipment of   Direct Contracting  Post Review only
US$10,000 equivalent or less
per contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$0.86 million
equivalent.
(iii) Contracts of more than    National Competitive  First bidding document by
US$50,000 equivalent but less Bidding (NCB)    Prior Review.
than US$200,000 equivalent.
(b) Furniture       US$50,000 equivalent or less  National Shopping    Post Review only
per contract up to an aggregate procedures
of US$2.55 million equivalent.
(c) Books, Proprietary  US$50,000 equivalent or less  Direct contracting  Post Review only
Software, Learning    per contract up to an aggregate
Resources and       of US$3.46 million equivalent.
Educational Materials
(d) 'Vehicles       US$100,000 equivalent or less National Shopping  Post Review only
per contract, up to an aggregate procedures (includes
not exceeding US$0.67 million DGS&D rate
equivalent.                contracts).
(e) Small Items     US$500 equivalent or less per  Direct Contracting  Post Review only
contract, not exceeding an
aggregate of US$ 200,000
equivalent
- 57 -



Services
Procurement agent,    Consultant services may be                     Prior Review of all consultant
research contracts,    procured by:                                  contracts shall be governed by
professional services,                                               the provisions of paragraphs
training, workshops   (a) More than US$200,000    Quality- and       (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
and fellowships.     equivalent per contract.   Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS)              (i) With respect to each
contract for the employment of
consulting firns estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in
(b) Between the equivalent of  Quality- and     paragraphs 1, 2 [other than the
US$200,000 and US$100,000  Cost-Based Selection  third sub-paragraph of
per contract.              (QCBS) with short list paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
(would comprise     Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
entirely of national    for Selection and Employment
consultants)        of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers shall apply.
Note: Procurement
Consultants for civil works
would comprise entirely of
national consultants as cleared
by the Bank's Regional
Procurement Advisor on April
5, 2000.
(ii) With respect to each
contract for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more but less
than the equivalent of
US$200,000, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2
[other than the second
sub-paragraph of paragraph
2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers shall apply.
- 58 -



(c) US$100,000 equivalent or Quality- and        (iii) With respect to each
less per contract.          Cost-Based Selection   contract for the employment of
(QCBS) with short list individual consultants
(would comprise     estimated to cost the equivalent
entirely of national    of US$50,000 or more, the
consultants)         qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and terms of
Selection based on   employment of the consultants
Consultant's        shall be furnished to the
Qualification (CQ)    Association for its prior review
and approval. The contract
Selection based on a   shall be awarded only after the
Fixed Budget (SFB)   said approval has been given.
(iv) Terms of Reference for all
consultant contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of
US$12,000 or more per
contract in the case of firms,
and the equivalent of
US$5,000 or more per contract
in the case of individuals shall
be furnished to the Association
for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall
be awarded only after the said
approval has been given.
All other cases                                  Post Review
Miscellaneous
Incremental operating  Expenses incurred on
costs.               maintenance of equipment,
vehicles and buildings, hiring
cost of vehicles and offices, and
consumables up to an
aggregate of US$9.35 million
equivalent may be executed by:
(i) Each package not exceeding
US$5000 equivalent up to an   Direct Contracting  Post Review only
aggregate of US$ 1,000,000
equivalent; or
(ii) On the basis of National   National Shopping  Post Review only
Shopping                    Procedures
- 59 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.Expenditure    :: := Ca     Ambnt0 in  >0$mn             Fia
Civil Works                                20.90                         90%
Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles          16.83           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Books, learning materials & software        3.30                         100%
Training, fellowships & consultant          8.52                         100%
services
Incremental operating & maintenance        10.54          80% of local expenditures incurred until
costs (recurring expenditure)                                  November 30, 2002, 65% of
expenditures incurred until November
30, 2004 and 25% of expenditures
incurred thereafter.
Unallocated (summation of                   4.79
contingencies)
Total Project Costs                        64.88
Total                                      64.88 
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of credit proceeds is given in Table C. A Special Account will be maintained in
the Reserve Bank of India; and will be operated by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of
Government of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$5 million that
represent about 6 months of initial estimated disbursements from IDA Credit. The Special Account will be
operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
The disbursement will initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation
and against statement of expenditure) and will be converted to Project Management Report (PMR) based
disbursement after the financial management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily.
The target date for this conversion is April 1, 2002.
The withdrawals from the credit account will be made on the basis of statement of expenditure for: (a)
works and goods contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants' services under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, in case of firms, and $50,000 equivalent each, in the
case of individuals (b) books and instructional material, (d) training, fellowships and workshops, and (e)
incremental operating and maintenance costs.
In the interim period, before conversion to PMR based disbursement, the NPIU will also be required to
- 60 -



submit a report on sources and uses of funds by disbursement category and procurement reports on
contracts over US$100,000 to IDA on a quarterly basis. The form and contents of these reports have been
agreed between IDA and NPIU and the reports formats are included in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) of NPIJU.
Curr ent Financial Management System
The implementing agencies for the Project are: (a) National Project Directorate (NPD) situated in Ministry
of Human Resource Development (MHRD) assisted by NPIU and (b) State project Implementation Units
(SPIUJs) in the eight participating states/UT. The NPIU, the executive implementing entity for the project,
has the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i) a good budgeting, accounting and
monitoring system has been established and is operational; (ii) staff are trained to carry out basic
accounting functions; and (iii) a system of periodic financial reporting from the states to NPIU is
operational.
However, since the government accounting system is followed in NPIU and the states, its main focus is on
book keeping and transactional control over expenditures. There is limited use of financial management
information for decision making and hence relatively little focus on meeting project management
information needs. Project financial statements indicating sources and uses of funds (including information
on project expenditure by components, types of expenditure, etc.) are not prepared. The focus of the audit
is on authentication of individual transactions, verification of compliance with Government procedures, and
certification of reimbursement claims made to the Bank.
Specific areas to be strengthened:
The ifollowing aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
commensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
(a)    satisfactory staffing and training: Financial functions should be staffed by suitably qualified
accounts professionals. NPIU should be supported by a full-time finance professional who can actively aid
in setting up the financial management system in the project. The SPIUs also need to be suitably staffed
with accounting professionals. At the institution level, there is a need to identify accounts personnel who
will be working exclusively on the project. The entire financial staff needs to be trained in the operation of
the computerized FMS. Project managers and financial staff need to be sensitized to the importance of
financial management for effective project management.
(b)   the need to analyze financial information and use it as a decision making tool: Financial reports
which provide timely and quality information on the financial performance of the project should be
prepared.
(c)    ensuring satisfactory audit arrangements including timely submission of audit report.
(d)    ensuring linking of physical progress with the financial progress.
The NPIU has agreed to develop a comprehensive computerized financial management system which will
address these issues.
- 61 -



Proposed Financial Management System
The proposed project financial management system will address the following aspects of financial
management:
(a)    budgeting and flow of fuids;
(b)    accounting system (including chart of accounts, formats of books, accounting and financial
procedures);
(c)    financial reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts);
(d)    staffing and training aspects including job responsibilities;
(e)    auditing arrangements;
(f)    procurement and contract administration monitoring system;
(g)    financial and accounting policies
Budftetinm and Flow of Funds
The project would be budgeted under a single identifiable budget line item in the budget of the Ministry of
Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India (GOI), for the expenditure that has to be
made at the central level, in the budget of the Ministry of the Home Affairs for expenditure relating to the
UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and in the budgets of the respective state governments for all the
participating states. In the case of the Centre, on approval of budget by the parliament, MHRD will release
the annual funds requirement in installments to the bank account of the Education Consultants India
Limited (EdCIL). EdCIL, which will make all major payments on behalf of NPIiU, will advance a part of
the funds to NPIU for the expenditure that has to be incurred by NPIU. Actual identifiable expenses
incurred by EdCIL for rendering this service will be eligible for reimbursement under the project.
However, any kind of an overhead charge or notional apportioning of the expenses by EdCIL will not be
eligible for reimbursement. For the UT, the Ministry of Home Affairs will allocate and release required
project funds to the Project Implementing Unit of the UT. At the state level, on approval of the budget by
the legislature, the State Governments will allocate and release project funds to their respective SPIUs. The
SPIU will incur expenditure through the Govemment treasury system. The SPIU will pass on a part of the
allocation to the institutions in that state for the expenses that are to be incurred at the institutions level.
Accountin2 and Internal Controls
The overall framework of the system is given below:
*   The financial management system would cover all project-related transactions, i.e., all sources of funds
would be accounted for and reflected in the project financial statements; and similarly all project
expenditures would be reflected in the project financial statements.
*   A chart of accounts will be developed. The chart of accounts will enable the expenditure data to be
captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The chart of accounts will
have linkages to: (i) government budget heads/categories; and (ii) disbursement categories.
*   The financial management system is being computerized. The computerized system will be installed
and operated at the NPIU and the eight participating SPIUs. The participating institutions in the states
will be expected to feed the SPIUs with the financial information on a manual basis. However, it is
proposed that one year from the start of the project, the computerization will be extended to the
institutions level. Accounts of NPIU, the SPIUs and all the institutions will be consolidated for project
financial reports at NPIU level.
- 62 -



* Standard books/records of accounts (cash and bank-books, journals, ledgers, trial balance, etc.) will be
maintained at the NPIU, SPIUs and the institutions using an integrated computerized accounting
system. A register of fixed assets, indicating assets created through the project or acquired under the
project, will also be maintained using the computerized system.
Transaction Information Flow and Accounting
All the accounting entities viz. NPIU, EdCIL, SPIUs and all the participating institutions will generate and
maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts and expenditures made at their level. However,
a monitoring system will be established at the NPIU level to monitor the usage of funds at states and at the
SPrU level to monitor the usage of funds by the institutions.
Consolidation of project accounts will be done (i) at the SPIU level by consolidating the accounts of SPITU
and the participating institutions; and (ii) at the NPIU level by consolidating the accounts of NPIU, EdCIL
and all the SPIUs. Data transfer would be handled through: (i) an integrated computer network; or (ii)
periodic data transfer through Electronic Mail.
Internal Controls
Intemal control mechanisms would include the following:
* establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performnance with budgets and targets and monitoring of physical and financial progress Physical data
on key items would be captured in the accounting system to enable monitoring of physical data;
-   development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent fnancial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project;
- at the transaction level, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
segregation of incompatible duties, periodic bank reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
Financial Reporting
Quarterly Financial Management Reports will include:
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on aspects
such as sources of funds (indicating separately funds from beneficiaries) and application of funds
(classified by components, sub-components, sunmmarized expenditure categories, etc.);
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items;
*   forecasts for the next 2 quarters; and
*   information on procurement management for major contracts.
Pro ject Financial Statements and Financial Management Reports would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. NPIU would generate quarterly financial management reports
frorn the integrated computerized financial management system for the whole project. The SPIUs and the
institutions will also have the capability of generating these reports for their own monitoring needs. These
- 63 -



reports and the Withdrawal Application (which would be based on the financial forecasts and actual
expenditures classified by disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly
disbursements in accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI.
Staffing
A Finance professional will be appointed to lead the Finance Unit at the NPIU. He/she will be an
accounting professional - preferably a Chartered Accountant - with about 8-10 years experience in a
similar position who will have overall responsibility for all financial and accounting aspects and will
provide leadership and strategic direction on financial aspects of the projects, including development of
financial capability at the SPIUs and at the institutions. He/she will be supported by an adequate number
of assistants to carry out the accounting and monitoring functions of the project.
The finance function at the SPIUs will be headed by an Accounts Officer. He will be assisted with an
accountant.
At the institution level, accountants will be identified out of the existing staff available to work on the
project.
An intensive training program will be developed to ensure that the staff at all the levels are adequately
trained in the computerized financial management system. The initial training will be imparted by the
consultants developing the computerized financial management system.
Auditing Arrangements
NPIU accounts in EdCIL will be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants acceptable to the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India. The SPIU accounts, which will include the accounts of the institutions
participating in that state will be audited by the Accountant General (Audit) of that state. All these nine
audit certificates for NPIU, the seven Project States and the UT would be subrnitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of the GOI's fiscal year.
Thus the following audit reports will be monitored in ARCS:
Inplementing A ency         Audit                       Auditors
NPIU(with EdCIL)            SOE/Project Audit     A firm of Chartered Accountants.
SPIUs including institutions    SOE/Project Audit  Accountant General (Audit) of the
respective state.
DEA/GOI                     Special Account       Comptroller & Auditor General of
India
A quarterly review of the financial controls of the SPIUs will be conducted by appropriately qualified
financial professionals appointed by NPIU. The SPIU will submit its accounts to the office of AG within
four months of the close of the fiscal year. The AG office will send an audit report within six months of the
close of the fiscal year to GOI and IDA.
- 64 -



Timetable for implementation of Project Financial Management System and next steRs
The proposed computerized Project Financial Management System (PFMS) will be developed with the help
of consultants to be specifically appointed for the purpose of designing, developing and instituting a
computerized PFMS in the project.
The following key activities will need to be completed to successfully implement the computerized financial
management system in the project
Activity                                                  Target Date
*   Appointment of a Finance Professional at NPIU                     August 31, 2000
*   Appointment of accounts personnel at SPIUs                        August 31, 2000
*   Appointment of consultants to design, develop and institute
a financial management system                                    August 31, 2000
*   Procurement of computers                                          January 31, 2001
*   Development and installation of the PFMS software                 February 28, 2001
*   Training on financial management system in the PFMS software      March 31, 2001
*   Implementation of the computerized financial management system    April 1, 2001
*   Conversion to PMR-based system of disbursement                    April 1, 2002
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                            7
First Bank mission (identification)              10/04/99                     10/25/99
Appraisal mission departure                      04/24/2000                   03/22/2000
Negotiations                                     06/26/2000                   07/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/01/2000
Prepared by:
The Project Implementation Plan is prepared for the Department of Secondary Education and Higher
Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India by the National Project
Implementation Unit, based on the Detailed Project Reports received from the States of Arunachal Pradesh,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Jammu & Kashmir, and the union territory (UT) of
Andaman & Nicobar with the assistance of Technical Teachers' Training Institues. The Project Appraisal
Document is prepared by an IDA Team indicated below.
Preparation assistance:
None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name nSpecialit
Shashi K. Shrivastava             Senior Education Specialist, SASED, Task Leader
Ward Heneveld                     Principal Education Specialist, SASED, Education Team Leader
C. S. Jha                         Consultant - Technical Education
Y. Saran                          Consultant - Technical Education
R. K. Dixit                       Consultant - Technical Education
S. A. A. Alvi                     Consultant - Implementation
Rajiv Aggarwal                    Consultant - Architect
Sajitha Bashir                    Education Economist, SASED
Vandana Sipahimalani              Education Economist, SASED
S. Krishnan                       Procurement Engineer, SACIF
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist, SACIF
Meera Chatterjee                  Senior Social Development Specialist, SASSD
Jose P. Correia da Silva          Senior Counsel, LEGSA
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Senior Counsel, LEGSA
Renu Gupta                        Team Assistant, SASED
Gertrude Cooper                   Program Assistant, SASED
Ralph W. Harbison                 Former Sector Director, SASED - External Peer Reviewer
Richard Cambridge                 Lead Specialist, AFTQK- Peer Reviewer
Lauritz Holm-Nielsen              Principal Education Specialist - Peer Reviewer
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
I . Third Technician Education Project: Project Concept Document, prepared by National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU), January 2000.
2. Third Technician Education Project: Project Details, prepared by National Project Implementation
Unit (NPIU), March 21, 2000.
3. Third Technician Education Project: Project Proposals ofAndaman & Nicobar Islands, Arunachal
Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura Prepared by their
respective state goverments/ UT administration.
4. Third Technician Education Project: Project costs for the total project, each state, and each
polytechnic and SPIU/DTE/Board/Council., compiled by National Project Implementation Unit
(NPIU) dated April 7, 2000.
5. Third Technician Education Project: Project Implementation Plan, prepared by National Project
Implementation Unit (NPIU), March 18, 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Technician Education Project: Implementation Completion Report, 1999 (Report No. 19042)
2. Electronics Industry Development Project: Implementation Completion Report, 1997 (Report No.
17054)
3. Vocational Training Project: Implementation Completion Report, 1999 (Report No. 19367)
4. Second Technician Education Project: Implementation Completion Report, 2000 (Report No. 20415)
5. OED Performance Audit Report : A Review and Audit of Investments in Technical -Vocational
Education in India, 2000
6. Sector Study: Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India, 2000 (draft) (Report No.
20416-IN), SASED
7. World Bank, Aide Memoire : Reconnaissance Mission (Oct 25- Nov 5, 1999)
8. India: Subsector Program for Technical Education, Concept Paper, December 1999.
9. World Bank, Aide Memoire: Pre Appraisal Mission (Feb 8-23, 2000)
10. World Bank, Aide Memoire: Appraisal Mission ( March 22 - April 5, 2000)
C. Other
1. National Policy on Education (NPE) - 1986 (Amended in 1992): Government of India.
2. National Policy Initiatives for Technician Education, 1999: Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Government of India.
3. Manpower Profile, India, Yearbook - 1999 : Institute of Applied Manpower Research
4. Labour Market for Engineers and Technicians (Study funded by the World Bank), 1998: Institute of
Applied Manpower Research.
5. National Report on Employment Status of Polytechnic Passouts in India, 1999 : Technical Teachers'
Training Institutes.
6. Report on Tracer Study on Employment Status of Polytechnic Passouts in the Eastern Region, 1999:
Technical Teachers' Training Institute, Calcutta
*rIcluding electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P045051       1999 India                      2NDNATLHIVIAIDSCO                                  0.00     191.00       0.00     184.47       6.17       0.00
PD49301       1997 India                      A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                               50.00     100.00       0.00      96.51      77.71       0.00
P010407       1993 India                      ADP - RAJASTHAN                                    0.00     106.00       0.00      14.02      17.35       0.00
P010503       1995 India                      AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                               0.00      59.50       0.00      21.43      21.78       0.00
P010489       1995 India                      AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                               0.00     133.00       0.00      47.72      15.79       0.00
P045049       2000 India                      AP OPIP                                            0.00     111.00       0.00     111.40       0.00       0.00
P049385       1998 India                      AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                             301.30     241.90       0.00     409.04      51.10       0.00
P010449       1994 India                      AP FORESTRY                                        0.00      77.40       0.00       9.02       8.77       0.00
P035158       1997 India                      AP IRRIGATION III                                175.00     150.00       0.00     239.84      66.16       0.00
P049537       1999 India                      AP POWER APL I                                   210.00       0.00       0.00     154.60      28.27       0.00
P010522        1995 India                     ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                  0.00     126.00       0.00      85.46      48.42       0.00
P010408       1993 India                      BIHAR PLATEAU                                      0.00     117.00       0.00      30.28      36.88       0.00
P010455        1994 India                     BLINDNESS CONTROL                                  0.00     117.80       0.00      71.52      45.95       0.00
P010480       1996 India                      BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                              167.00      25.00       0.00     104.58      96.43       0.00
P043310        1996 India                     COAL ENV & SOCIAL MmGATION                         0.00      63.00       0.00      39.21      25.34       0.00
P009979        1998 India                     COAL SECTOR REHAB                                530.00       2.00      15.00     301.54      98.05      98.05
P009870       1994 India                      CONTAINER TRANSPORT                               94.00       0.00       0.00      61.54      61.54      41.33
P010484       1995 India                      DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                0.00     260.30       0.00     103.00      56.31       0.00
P035821       1996 India                      DPEP II                                            0.00     425.20       0.00     226.83       3.50       0.00
P038021       1998 India                      DPEP III (BIHAR)                                   0.00     152.00       0.00     129.52      50.72       0.00
P036062        1997 India                     ECODEVELOPMENT                                     0.00      28.00       0.00      20.04       8.73       0.00
P043728        1997 India                     ENVCAPACITYBLDGTA                                  0.00      50.00       0.00      41.13      21.17       0.00
P010563        1995 India                     FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                700.00       0.00     301.30      97.03       0.00       0.00
P010448       1994 India                      FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                               0.00      47.00       0.00      16.41      35.24      13.14
P035160        1998 India                     HARYANA POWER APL-1                               60.00       0.00       0.00      28.06      17.40       0.00
P010485       1996 India                      HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                  0.00     142.00       0.00      77.61      68.42       0.00
P009977        1993 India                     ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                               0.00     194.00       0.00      99.50     100.83      97.51
P039935        1996 India                     ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                              200.00       5.00       0.00     178.79     151.53       0.00
P067330       2000 India                      IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                 0.00     142.60       0.00     142.17       0.00       0.00
P010463        1995 India                     INDUS POLLUTION PREV                             143.00      25.00       1.64     141.63     121.04       2.00
P010418        1993 India                     KARNATAKA WS & ENVWS                               0.00      92.00       0.00       1.54       2.17       0.00
P049477        1998 India                     KERALA FORESTRY                                    0.00      39.00       0.00      30.24       0.18       0.00
P010461       1995 India                      MADRAS WAT SUP II                                275.80       0.00     189.30      36.71     206.91       2.95
P050651       1999 India                      MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                0.00     134.00       0.00     128.49     130.89       0.00
P010511       1997 India                      MALARIA CONTROL                                    0.00     164.80       0.00     139.42      55.07       0.00
P009946       1992 India                      NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                                 153.00     153.00       0.00      87.38      67.82      12.41
P009869        1989 India                     NATHPAJHAKRI HYDRO                               485.00       0.00       0.00      83.89      83.89       1.68
P010561       1998 India                      NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                                 96.80     100.00       0.00     187.19      49.17       0.00
P010424        1993 India                     NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                               0.00      85.00       8.70      16.72      26.78      16.33
P009982        1990 India                     NOR REG TRANSM                                   485.00       0.00      35.00     106.25     141.25       0.00
P010496        1998 India                     ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                  0.00      76.40       0.00      72.28      13.20       0.00
P035170        1996 India                     ORISSA POWER SECTOR                              350.00       0.00       0.00     271.72     136.72       o.0o
P010529        1996 India                     ORISSAWRCP                                         0.00     290.90       0.00     131.41      25.64       0.00
P010416        1993 India                     PGC POWER SYSTEM                                 350.00       0.00      75.00      37.46     111.54       0.00
- 68 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursements
Project IID   FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frnm Rev'd
P010457       1994 India                     POPULATION IX                                     0.00      88.60       0.00     42.82      26.59       0.00
P009963       1992 India                     POPULATION Vill                                   0.00      79.00      0.00      44.03      45.87       0.00
P010505       2000 India                     RAJASTAN DPIP                                     0.00     100.48       0.00    100.12       0.00       0.00
P045050       1999 India                     RAJASTHAN DPEP                                    0.00    86.70         0.00     81.27       6.41       0.00
P010410       1993 India                     RENEWABLE RESOURCES                              75.00     115.00       0.00     64.67      94.26       0.00
P010531       1997 India                     REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                              0.00     248.30       0.00    192.18      80.26      38.19
P009959       1993 India                     RUBBER                                            0.00      92.00      36.61     13.79      S0.70      -1.33
P044449       1997 India                     RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                         0.00      19.50       0.00     16.51      10.63       0.00
P009921       1992 India                     SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                              0.00      85.00      50.02     15.05      62.95      14.34
P035825       1996 India                     STATE HEALTH SYS 11                               0.00     350.00       0.00    204.33     134.67       0.00
P009995       1997 India                     STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                            350.00       0.00       0.00    287.13      65.47       0.00
P045600       1997 India                     TA STS RD INFRA DEV                              51.50       0.00       0.00     21.64      13.81      15.14
P010476       1995 India                     TAMIL NADU WRCP                                   0.00     282.90       0.00    153.65     103.59       0.00
P050637       1999 India                     TN URBAN DEV II                                  105.00      0.00       0.00     90.50      11.50       0.00
P010473       1997 India                     TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                              0.0o     142.40       0.00    124.28      77.68       0.00
P050638       1998 India                     UP BASIC ED It                                    0.00      59.40       0.00     14.91       3.99       0.00
P009955       1993 India                     UP BASIC EDUCATION                                0.00     165.00       0.00      9.83      -1.03       0.00
P035824       1998 India                     UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                              79.90      50.00       0.00    119.07      38.90       0.00
P050667       2000 India                     UP DPEP III                                       0.00     182.40       0.00    178.40       0.00       0.00
P065471       2000 India                     UP FISCAL REFORM & PUBLIC SECTOR RESTRCT         126.27    125.00       0.00    250.82       0.00       0.00
P035169       1998 India                     UP FORESTRY                                       0.00      52.94       0.00     37.21       7.90       0.00
P050657       2000 India                     UP Health Systems Development ProJect              0.00    110.00       0.00    109.60       0.00       0.00
P035172       2000 India                     UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT            150.00      0.00       0.00    150.00       0.00       0.00
P010484       1996 India                     UP RURAL WATER                                   59.60       0.00       0.00     44.80      20.70       0.00
P050646       1999 India                     UP SODIC LANDS 11                                 0.00     194.10       0.00    178.46      21.93       0.00
P009961       1993 India                     UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                              0.00       4.70       0.00      2.42       1.63       0.00
P009964       1994 India                     WATER RES CONSOLID H                              0.00     258.00       0.00    113.96      83.40       0.00
P035827       1998 India                     WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                              0.00     300.00       0.00    289.47       5.69       0.00
P041264       1999 India                     WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                             85.00      50.00       0.00    124.53       1.06       0.00
Total:    5908.17    7517.22       712.57    7690.05   3360.39    351.74
- 69 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1989               AEC                           6.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                  0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         22.50    0.00    0.00   50.25   22.50    0.00    0.00   50.25
1993/95/97         Centurion Bank               10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2017               Chinai                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule                     12.63    4.58    0.00   19.38   12.63    4.58     0.00   19.38
1994               DLF Cement                    7.70    4.94    0.00    9.38    7.70    4.94    0.00    9.38
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                     13.64    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                    7.50    5.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                         0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.86    0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                     0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98/20         Global Trust                  0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               HDFC                          0.00    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HOEL                          0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990               Hindustan                     1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987              IAAF                           0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
1998               ICICI-IFGL                    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94            ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00        IDFC                           0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998              IL & FS                        0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98      IL&FS Venture                 0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95           ITW Signode                    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96    India Direct Fnd             0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.01    0.00    0.00
1996              India Equipment                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Lease                   0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        Indo Rama                      0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        Indus II                       0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus VC Mgt Co               0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VCF                     0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1992               Ispat Industries              0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97         JSB India                     0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00
1989/95            M&M                           0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         MUSCO                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1964/75/79/90
Total Portfolio:      214.93  141.08    0.00   88.01  199.40  124.82    0.00   88.01
- 70 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              APCL                           7100.00     0.00   1900.00      0.00
1999              Carraro                       10000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Sarshatali Coal               30000.00     0.00   5000.00      0.00
2000              Tanflora                          0.00     0.00    510.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    47100.00      0.00   7410.00     0.00
- 71 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South       Low.S
India      Asia   Income        Development diamond*
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                         979.7      1.305     3,536                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methodf, USS)                       440       430        520
GNP (Atlas method, US5 billions)                        427.4        560      1.842
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                            1.7        1.9        1.7     GN
Labor force (%)                                           2.0        2.3        1.9     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                   capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below narional poverty line)      35          .         .a
Urban population (%of total population)                    28         28        30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           63         62        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   70        75         68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 53         51        36                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                     81         77        73
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       44         47        31
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    too         100       107       -India             Low-incomegroup
Male                                                   109        110        112
Female                                                  90         90        102
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             134.6    289.7      407.9     419.7
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                  22.3      24.3       23.4      21.8                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP               6.2       6.3       11.1       11.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     21.1      21.4       19.9       19.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     21.9      21.2       21.9       20.7
Current account balanc/lGDP                     *0.1      2.4        -1.4      -1,0     Domestic                       Ie n
Interest payments/GDP                           0.3       07         0.8       11.                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  12.2     20.9       23.1       23.4     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     13.0      28.5       18.6       17.0
Present value of debt/GDP                         ..       ..       18.7 
Present value of debtlexports                     ..       ..      130,3
Indebtedness
1978-88  1988-98      1997       1998   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    5.0       5.5      4.6        6.3        6.2       - India            Low-income group
GNP per capita                         2.6      3.7       2.9        4.3        4.4
Exports of goods and services          4.2      11.9      6.2        4.5        7.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997       1998      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              3D
Agriculture                                     38.8     32.8       28.0       29.1
Industry                                       24.2      26.8       27.1       25.7     2D- .
Manufacturing                                 16.5     16.4       16.6       15.6     1D
Services                                       37.0      40.4       44.9       45.2        D           1
Private consumption                            69.3      66.4       68.8       69.9    ll             94   95   96   97   sa
General government consumption                  9.6      12.3       11.3       11.0          -GDI                     GDP
Imports of goods and services                   7.4       9.3       14.5       14.0
1978-88  1988-98       1997       1998     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      2.8      3.1        -1.9       7.2    40
Industry                                         5.9      6.4        5.9        3.9    30                   A
Manufacturing                                  6.1       6.9       4.0        3.6    20
Services                                         6.2      7.3        9.0        8.3    20
ix
Private consumption                              5.1      5.6        1.6       10.3
General government consumption                   7.7      4.6       10.6        6.5     0
Gross domestic investment                       4.8       5.6       13.1       -0.1            93   94   95   96   97   99
Imports of goods and services                   7.3       9.9       11.7       10.9                   Eports         Imports
Gross national product                           4.9      5.6        4.7        6.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 72 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         15
Consumer prices                                         9.3       7.0       7.0     I_
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.5       8.1       6.4       9.4
5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..    23.6       22.7      22.1             93   94    95    96   97    9
Current budget balance                          ..      1.0      -0.2       0.0            -     GDP deflator    O CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -10.0       -8.0      -9.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1978     1988       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  13,970    35,013    34,298      50,00x
Tea                                            ..    421        505       482           .
Iron                                           ..    465        476       359     40,500
Manufactures                                  ..  10,727    27,348    27,530      30,000
Total imports (ci)                              ..  19,497    41,484    47,544      20 W_ 
Food                                                1,203      1,845    2,647
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,009       8,217    6,435     10 a0
Capital goods                                 ..   4,803       9,796    9,497         o
92  93  94  00  90  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..    111         100        96
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      88         94        90                 * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    125         106       106
BAUtNCE of PAYMENTS
1978     1988      1997      1998
1978 millions)     1997      1         Current account balance to GDP (%/)
(UIS$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                8,380   18,213    45,109    47,484     
Imports of goods and services                9,900   26,843        59,297    58,565
Reso frce balance                          -1,520   -8,630       -14,188   -11,081
Net iricome                                   223   -1,056    -3,166    -3,544
Net current transfers                        1,150    2,654    11,830    10,280     -I            'I       I     I     '
Current account balance                      -147   -7,032    -5,524    4,345
Financing items (net)                         147    5,600      9,120     8,721
Changes in net reserves                         0    1,432    -3,596    4,376       2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,299    5,467    30,314    33,206
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)               8.2     14.5      37.2      42.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        16,466   60,477    94,404    98,232
IBRD                                        646    5,590      8,138     7,993                  G:4,329 A:7,993
IDA                                       3,972   12,019    17,912    18,562
Total debt service                           1,309    5,945    10,832    10,001                                      :18,562
IBRD                                        126      777      1,411     1,627
IDA                                          38      179        381     1,372
Composition of net resource flows                                                   F: 39,448                         C:298
Offlicial grants                            449      406        379      307
Oflicial creditors                          603    2,645       -312     1,727             \:3,965
Private creditors                           -10    5,741      2,840    -1,433
Foreign direct investment                     0      287      3,557     2,462
Portfolio equity                              0        0      1,828      -61                                E: 23,647
Worli Bank program
Commitments                                1,829    2,645     1,755     2,055     A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               507    2,472      1,372     1,421     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         84      383      1,071     2,193     C-IMF                       G - Short-tenm
Net flows                                   423    2,088        302     -772
Interest payments                            80      572        721      806
Net transfers                               342    1,516       -420    -1,578
Development Economics                                                                                                 3128100
- 73 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
INDIA: Third Technician Education Project
How the Project would Promote Tribal Development
Project Objectives and Components
This annex describes the project's approach to meeting the requirements of the Bank's O.D. 4.20, i.e. how it
would ensure (a) that indigenous people in the project areas receive culturally-compatible social and
economic benefits, and (b) that there are no adverse effects on them, specifically on their culture, language,
institutions, rights, natural resource base and productive activities.
The main project objective is to expand and improve technician education in the eight states/Union
Territory in which it is located, many of whose populations are substantially tribal. Increasing the access
of disadvantaged groups such as tribal people, women and rural youth to technical education and training is
also a specific development objective of the project. The location of the project in the north-eastem, largely
tribal, states itself is intended to redress the existing inadequacy of technical skills among these populations,
and mitigate the related problems they face, such as unemployment (and the social unrest and economic
stagnation this creates), and inadequate technology transfer.
The three project components subsume the following activities:
*   Establishing six new polytechnics and strengthening 12 existing ones, including establishing a skills
development center and introducing new academic programs; quality enhancements include
modemization of laboratories and workshops, improved curricula, more and better trained staff, and
enhanced learning resources;
a   Introducing continuing education programs for industry and communities, including non-formal
training and distance education, which would be managed by Industry/Community-Institute Interaction
Cells established in the polytechnics; and
*   Enhancing the efficiency of technician education by establishing better management and supervision
systems, research, networking and policy support.
To provide commensurate and culturally-compatible benefits to tribal people, the project would ensure (a)
that the appropriate proportion of places and facilities in the polytechnics are given to indigenous students;
(b) that the on-going and new academic programs/curricula fit the needs of the local tribal populations and
are compatible with their cultures; and (c) that the industry/community outreach programs cover
indigenous populations and needs.
Project Beneficiaries and Benefits
Project beneficiaries would consist of two main categories:
* Students in the main courses of the 18 polytechnics; these would be young people who have completed
10 to 12 years of schooling, and who are selected for the formal training programs on the basis of entry
criteria established by the individual state governments and approved by the All-India Council for
Technical Education (AICTE). The enrollment capacity of the polytechnics would increase to about
8,000, and about 2,500 students would graduate every year. Tribal youth and women from low- and
- 74 -



middle-income groups would constitute the majority of students;
*   Members of local communities who would participate in the non-formal continuing education and
community outreach programs of the polytechnics. About 8,000 to 10,000 people are expected to
receive such t-raining during the project period.
Under the non-formal continuing education and conmmunity outreach programs, the project would undertake
the following activities:
* Non-formal training for employment generation, including self-employment;
*   Creation of extension centers for maintenance and repair services as well as transfer of improved
technologies in areas of relevance and community need (e.g., water and sanitation, housing, agricultural
implements, electrical equipment);
*   Community service projects by students who would receive credit for them in the curricula;
* L-inkages with other government programs that provide inputs to village development;
*   Distance education of remote communities in Sikkim, Tripura, and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands,
who would be reached by V-sat communication and extension services.
Thus, the benefits of the project include:
* the appropriate education and deployment of secondary school graduates in the project states; they
would be assisted to develop and utilize their talents, which may otherwise be wasted in non-productive
activities;
*   enhancement of knowledge and skills for productive activities among local communities, of
employment, and of extension services to meet important needs.
The diversity of cultures and social structures in the project areas, and wide differences in occupational
pattems, systems of livelihood and production, call for the polytechnic programs to be tuned to local
conditions, particularly in the case of the outreach programs. The formal programs which would be
conducted under the project have been selected carefully to meet local socio-economic needs, based on
on-site research. Economic and labor market conditions in these states have been taken into account in
revising existing courses and introducing new ones (see Annex 4). To address the problem of limited
employment in the modem sector, the project proposes specifically to enable graduates to set up
self-employment ventures and provides training for entrepreneurship development. The non-formal
continuing education programs would assist in transferring technologies that are adapted to local needs and
envirornments. Both the formal and non-formal training programs would enhance the employability of local
youth and expand local production, and these outcomes would in tum contribute to the economic
development of the project states, including their tribal areas.
Social Assessment. In order to ensure that the project attains its wide educational and development
objectives and is sustainable, each polytechnic would carry out a detailed social assessment prior to
designing and implementing its community outreach programs. This would include the collection and
analysis of relevant data on the local communities and their institutions, and ascertaining their preferences
through consultations. Local patterns of social organization and resource use would be taken into account
in program design. The programs designed as a result of these participatory social and institutional
analyses would offer culturally-appropriate choices and build in continuous assessments of community
interest in them and of their effectiveness, which would be part of the monitoring and evaluation of the
project. The need for and potential complexity of this process is demonstrated by the baseline data below,
which describe aspects of tribal education, gender relations, language, occupation, settlements and
migration that are germane to the objectives of the project.
- 75 -



Baseline Data
Population. In six project states, the share of Scheduled Tribes (ST) in the total population is significantly
higher than the national average of about eight percent (see Annex 2, Table 2. 1). In four states, tribal
people constitute the majority of the population: over 85 percent in Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland,
and over 60 percent in Arunachal Pradesh. In two other states, Sikkim and Tripura, the proportion is
between 20 and 30 percent. In the Andaman & Nicobar Islands the proportion is below 10 percent.
Although data are not available for Jammu & Kashmir, the proportion of tribal people in the population of
this state is estimated to be negligible. Significant percentages of the populations of the project states also
belong to religious groups which are in the minority in India as a whole, such as Christians in the
north-eastem states, Muslims in Jammu & Kashmir, and Buddhists in Sikkim. These unusual demographic
features, as well as the strategic locations and underdevelopment of these states, have resulted in special
policies being formulated to protect their cultures and associated resources while providing them
appropriate development opportunities. Some relevant measures are reviewed below in the sections on
Legal Framework and Institutional Mechanisms.
Education. Except for Jammu & Kashmir, literacy rates and primary school enrollment rates in all the
project states are higher than the respective national average. However, progress beyond universal
enrollment at the primary stage has been relatively modest. Even in the north-eastem states with relatively
high coverage at the primary level, the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) for the 11 to 14 year age-group
drops sharply to between 50 and 60 percent, compared to 90 percent for the 6 to 11 year age-group. The
drop-out rate for Classes 1 to 5 is 48 percent against the national average of 40 percent. In Jammu &
Kashmir, only two-thirds of children are enrolled at the primary level. Census data for 1991 also reveal
differences between rural and urban areas: in the latter, over 80 percent of children in the 11 to 13 year
age-group were reportedly attending school, but in rural areas the proportion was only 70 percent (Table
11.1).
Table 11.1
Attendance Ratio (11 to 13 year age-group)
State/UT                                    Rural                              Urban
Male            Female            Male             Female
Arunachal Pradesh                    66               50               84                75
Meghalaya                            48               49               87                85
Mizoram                              73               68                91               88
Nagaland                             69               65               85                83
Tripura                              77               67               91                86
Sikkim                               79               71                86               82
Jammu & Kashmir                     n.a.              n.a.             n.a.              n.a.
Andaman & Nicobar                    89               84                88               86
Source: Census of India, 1991
- 76 -



As only students who successfully complete secondary school are eligible for formal polytechnic courses,
access to these among different social groups is determined by prior access to secondary schooling of good
quality. Throughout India, access is greater among middle-income groups and the populations of urban
areas or large villages in close proximity to urban centers. In most of the project states, unlike other parts
of India, tribal communities have a relatively advantageous socio-political and economic position, and so
students qualifying for entrance to the polytechnics include substantial numbers of tribal youth. Their
access is further enhanced by prevailing affirmative action measures (e.g., reservation quotas for education
and employment, scholarships, etc. - see Legal Framework below).
Gender. Gender disparities exist-in elementary and secondary school enrollment but are not substantial in
any of the project states except Jammu & Kashmir, where relatively low GERs persist at the primary (66
percent) and upper primary (50 percent) stages. The female literacy rate is lower than the national average
in Arunachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). In other states, a high proportion of women (between
65 and 95 percent) are literate, though educational attainment is only primary level for the majority.
The project proposes special measures for women, such as the introduction of appropriate courses, hostel
facilities, and support for employment. About fifty percent of additional hostel places created under the
project would be for women. Consequently, the participation of women in technician education is expected
to rise significantly from 31% to 48% in the final year of the project. Women would also be important
participants in the community outreach programs. On account of the low female literacy in Arunachal
PradLesh and J&K, community outreach programs in these states would aim to accommodate training needs
of illiterate women. In the tribal communities, the programs would take account of the traditionally active
role played by women in production and activities outside the home. The social assessments which would
be carried out in each community prior to the design and implementation of the outreach programs would
collect and analyze data on women's roles, priorities and needs, in order to ensure that the programs benefit
woomen from lower income groups.
Linguistic and Cultural Aspects. Within the broad classification 'Scheduled Tribes', there are a large
number of separate tribal groups derived from various 'families' including the Tibeto-Burman,
Indo-Mongoloid and Mon-Khemar. One relevant result is the wide linguistic variation, even within
individual states. Taking the project states together, there are 66 languages recorded as 'mother tongues'
with more than 10,000 speakers each. In Mizoram, Tripura and Sikkim, there is greater linguistic
homogeneity in the sense that between 63 and 75 percent of the population speak one language (see Table
11.2). In Meghalaya, 49 percent and 31 percent of the population speak Khasi and Garo, respectively.
Each of these states, however, has at least another five languages with more than 10,000 speakers, and
additional languages with smaller numbers of speakers. For instance, in Sikkim, 63 percent speak Nepali,
but i,lve other languages are spoken by less than ten percent of the population each. Linguistic diversity is
most marked in Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. In the former area, 20 percent of the population speaks
Nissi/Dafla but there are 11 other languages each spoken by 10,000 to 20,000 speakers (less than ten
percent of the population). In the latter, there are at least 15 languages with more than 10,000 speakers of
eachi language, the majority of them spoken by less than five percent of the population.
- 77 -



Table 11.2
Speakers of the Three Numerically Most Significant Languages
(percent distribution in each state)
States/UT              Language       Speakers (as % of  Language    Speakers (as %    Language   Speakers (as %
population)                of population)                of population)
Arunachal Pradesh      Nissi/Daffla         19.9        Nepali           9.4        Bengali            8.2
Meghalaya              Khasi                49.5        Garo            30.9        Bengali            8.1
Mizoram                Lushai/Miz           75.1        Bengali          8.6        Lakher             3.3
Nagaland               Ao                   14.0        Sema             12.6       Konyak             11.4
Tripura                Bengali              68.9        Tripuri         23.5        Hindi              1.7
Sikkim                 Nepali               63.1        Bhotia           8.0        Lepcha             7.3
Andaman & Nicobar      Bengali              23.1        Tamil            19.1       Hindi              17.6
Source: Census of India, 1991
Such linguistic heterogeneity makes education, particularly higher education, complex. While technical
education is less dependent on language (compared with baccalaureate education), it is replete with
technological terms which do not exist in most Indian languages. Thus, technician education is transacted
largely in English throughout India, including the project states.
In addition to linguistic diversity, other diverse aspects of culture are relevant to project transactions.
These include a range of social customs and rules relating to the position of women (e.g., marriage and
inheritance rules). Many (but not all) tribal communities are matrilineal, enabling daughters to inherit
property and children to carry their mothers' clan names. The related, comparatively higher status of
women in the North-East has facilitated their greater access to education, but its impact on women's access
to and control over modem economic resources (e.g., technology) has been low.
Occupational Patterns. State-level data on occupations reveal that 65 to 75 percent of the labor force in
each state is engaged in agriculture; another 15 to 25 percent is engaged in services, and 3 to 7 percent in
trade. The urban work force consists largely of people engaged in services and trade, but manufacturing,
construction and transport occupy greater proportions of people in urban areas (Table 11.3). These
occupational pattems have a bearing on the nature of formal polytechnic courses to be offered under the
project, and on the skills and technologies promoted by the industry/community programs.
Table 11.3
Structure of the Workforce, 1991 (percent distribution in each state)
Total Workforce    Agricultur   Manufacturin    Construction    Trade       Transport    Services
e                       7
-78 -



Anmnachal Pradesh      67.2           2.7             6.0            3.3           1.1          19.5
Meghalaya              74.2           2.1             1.6            5.3           1.4          15.3
Mizoram                65.8           2.6             2.5            5.2           1.1          22.6
Nagaland               75.2           1.7              1.8           3.2           0.9          17.2
Tripura                63.8           4.9              1.5           7.7           2.8          19.1
Urban Workforce
Artnachal Pradesh       8.9           5.6             13.2          12.0           3.9          56.3
Meghalaya               8.6           8.0              5.7          19.1           6.1          51.7
Mizoram                40.7           5.3              4.0          10.9           2.4          54.9
Nagaland               14.3           4.8              5.5           16.0          4.3          54.9
Tripura                10.2           9.2              3.9          20.2           8.1          47.4
Source: Census of India, 1991
In most states, agriculture is characterized by subsistence production and low productivity. In Mizoram
and Meghalaya, the main pattern of agriculture isjhum (shifting) cultivation. Harvesting of forest produce
for subsistence use and, in some cases, for market is another important economic activity. Forests
comprise both reserved forests (where the state alone has the authority to collect forest resources), and
other forests where traditional uses by local communities are permitted. Among non-agricultural activities,
traditional crafts, such as basket- weaving, shawl-making, cane and bamboo work, occupy an important
position, with some marketed outside the state.
Apart from agriculture and handicrafts, trading is a major economic activity in the north-eastem states.
TradLe networks cover exchanges of produce within the state (specifically between hills and plains people),
inter-state trade within the region, trading with other states of the country, and regulated trading with
Bangladesh and Myanmar. Much of the internal and external trade is controlled by non-tribal people,
inchlding communities from other parts of India that have settled in the region over generations, sales
offices of industrial houses, and itinerant traders who visit intermittently to buy or sell specific products.
The project would promote the improvement of agricultural technologies and of extension services to
enhance productivity. It would also assist in developing skills and improving the quality and marketing of
handicrafts. As a result it is expected that local producers would be able to better control trade and ensure
fair prices for their products.
Settlements and Migration. The overall labor force distribution reflects the low level of urbanization in
the project states -- towns are few as well as small in size. In the North-East, they have grown either as
centers of administration or agricultural trade. Even rural settlements in the project states are small and
widely dispersed. Seventy-five percent of villages in Arunachal Pradesh and 50 percent in Meghalaya have
less than 200 people, and such villages account for about a quarter of the rural population. Furthermore, in
these villages, homes are spread out among hamlets, often located on individual hill tops. These settlement
patterns would be taken into account while devising pragmatic and effective community outreach strategies.
Another important aspect of the project states is the extent of migration. Their hill areas face extensive
out-migration, particularly of young men, due to poor economic conditions. This leaves women often
- 79 -



fending economically and socially for themselves, making them an important target group for the
community outreach programs. In-migration of non-native communities is also occurring (e.g., in Tripura
and Sikkim) bringing in low-skilled and often impoverished people who also need access to better skills,
technology and employment opportunities.
While focusing on improving technical education in the project states in order to create employment and
spur economic development, the project is also concerned with the enhancement of productive skills that
meet the needs and are suited to the environment of tribal people, and are sustainable. It also aims to
preserve and enhance occupational activities which are a part of their special cultures.
Legal Framework
General. The Fifth and Sixth Schedules of the Indian Constitution provide protection to tribal populations
on account of their disadvantages. The Fifth Schedule designates 'Scheduled Areas' in large parts of
central India in which the interests of 'Scheduled Tribes' are to be protected. The Sixth Schedule applies to
the administration of the states of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram in the North-East. This
Schedule provides for the creation of autonomous districts, and autonomous regions within districts if there
are different Scheduled Tribes within the district. The District/Regional Councils are elected by popular
ballot and are empowered to make laws on the use of land, management of forests, regulation ofjhum
cultivation, regulation of money-lending and trading by non-tribals, property and inheritance, marriage and
social customs.
In addition, Articles 371 A and 371 G of the Constitution specifically relate to the protection of customary
laws and practices in the states of Nagaland and Mizoram, respectively. These two Articles provide that no
Act of Parliament in respect of religious and social practices, customary laws and procedure, and the
administration of civil and criminal justice involving decisions awarded according to the customary law and
ownership and transfer of land and its resources applies to these two states unless specifically agreed to by
resolutions of their Legislative Assemblies.
Taken together, these Constitutional provisions and more direct access to political power have meant that
tribal lands, interests, and identities have been protected with greater effectiveness in the North-East than in
other areas of the country where tribal populations are in a minority and have come under economic
pressure from surrounding, economically more advanced, populations.
Specific Measures Relating to Education. Article 46 of the Directive Principles of State Policy, an
adjunct to the Constitution, provides that "the state shall promote with special care the educational and
economic interests of the weaker sections of the people, and in particular the ... Scheduled Tribes, and shall
protect them from social injustice and exploitation." Article 15 enables the state to make special provisions
for the advancement of socially/educationally backward classes or for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes
(SC/ST). Accordingly, tribal people are provided statutory reservations in educational institutions and
jobs, which often involve a relaxation of the eligibility criteria to enable them to qualify. These provisions
would apply to this project.
Individual state governments as well as the Central Government have several scholarship programs for
SC/ST students at the secondary and post-secondary level, as well as hostels to ensure participation of
these disadvantaged sections. The Central Government has set up the North Eastern Regional Institute of
Science and Technology (NERIST) at Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh to promote science and technology
education in the area. Besides this, 612 degree-level seats and 307 diploma-level seats have been reserved
in various engineering colleges and polytechnics throughout India for students from the North-East. Due to
- 80 -



high private costs and difficulties in adjusting to new social conditions, these qaotas are often not utilized
fully.
The project would considerably enhance the availability of technician education (which has been limited in
the project states) to tribal students, thus furthering the goals of the Constitution while enabling the
students to continue living in their own socio-cultural settings, and eventually to work there to assist in the
development of their commnunities. The overall participation of tribal students in the formal programs of
project polytechnics would increase from 36% to 49% (over 90% in Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland)
of those enrolled by the end of the project period. Of the additional student places created by the project,
almost three-quarters would be in the six states of the North-East which have a high share of ST
population. In these states, the majority of the beneficiaries of the non-formal programs would also be
from tribal communities. The community outreach programs would assist in the socio-economic
development of tribal communities, while providing them opportunities to chose, own and manage their
specific activities.
Land tenure. Community land tenure systems exist among many of the tribal communities, and are related
to their traditional production systems. The social organization of jhum cultivation, for example, does not
allow for individual ownership of land, and therefore control over land is exercised either by the clan or the
village, which also organizes the labor. Household control is restricted to land that is allotted for residence
and cultivation after the common land is delineated. The traditional systems of land tenure apply to village
land. under the authority of a village council, clan land under the authority of a clan council, and domestic
groLp land under the authority of a domestic group. Land under the authority of civil administrations or
corporate bodies is governed by state or Central laws. Land is privately owned in urban areas and in rural
areas where commercial agriculture has begun.
Specific legislation exists to ensure that tribal people do not lose their lands, and there are also laws
providing rights to forest and common property resources. In the north-eastern states, these rights are
protected by laws prohibiting non-tribal persons or persons from outside the state to purchase land.
However, despite legal provisions ensuring that tribal lands are not alienated, control over land is one of the
most sensitive issues in tribal areas, particularly in the North-East. Control over land has been a major
reason for conflict between the original inhabitants of the region and in-migrants, tribal and non-tribal
people, and one tribe and another.
The project is not expected to exacerbate the situation, nor would it address issues of land tenure directly.
However, in training local tribal youth for productive activity and raising their incomes, it would assist
families and communities to retain social and economic control over their lands.
Inslitutional Mechanisms
In the north-eastern states, the modern government machinery coexists with traditional institutions of
governance. The former system consists of two parts: the legislature, comprising the District Councils, the
State Legislative Assembly, and membership of the upper and lower houses of the national Parliament, and
the executive -- administrative echelons from the state secretariat down to the block-level. In the
north-eastern states where Scheduled Tribes constitute the majority of the population, elected leaders and
administrative personnel are drawn predominantly from these communities, and their involvement in
programs and projects of this nature can help to promote the interests of the communities. The project
would establish an Advisory body for the outreach programs in each polytechnic, including local
representatives, experts and community members. Furthermore, most project administrators would be
drawn from state personnel.
- 81 -



In the North-East, village councils are an important institutional mechanism for self-governance, and enjoy
statutory rights under the Constitution. The village is essentially an extension of the clan or family.
Villages have jurisdiction over a defined territory, comprising both residential and cultivable land. The
village council consists of adult male members and is represented by a headman or chief. Women
traditionally do not play a role in these councils although they have a more prominent social presence than
in other Indian communities. The village heads are assisted by a few selected members forming a
committee. The village council is a decision-making and implementing body. Cases of law and order,
initiating governmental schemes for community development, settling of disputes, etc. are decided by the
councils. In Nagaland, for example, tribal councils are empowered to try criminal as well as civil cases
and can impose fines. Only those members belonging to the village enjoy the right of political
participation. Even though a tribe may be spread over many villages, membership of a tribe does not
enable participation in village councils other than the one in the village where a person resides. The village
councils in the areas likely to be covered by the community outreach programs would be consulted during
the social assessment and would participate in decision-making, implementation and evaluation of the
programs.
Special Central Assistance. In order to accelerate the socio-economic development of the North-East, the
North Eastern Council (NEC) was created in 1972 by an Act of Parliament to advise the Central and state
governments and formulate regional plans and programs. The NEC provides financing for inter-state
development projects in the area of infrastructure, and for the development of higher educational
institutions. These funds are obtained as Central assistance or loans from financial institutions. All the
project states (except the Andaman & Nicobar Islands) are also covered by a 'Hill Areas Development
Programme' which provides Central assistance for state plans under more favorable terms than for non-hill
states. Further, since the mid-'90s, all Central Ministries are expected to earmark ten percent of their
annual budgets for developmental activities in the North-East, including the Ministry of Human Resource
Development which allocates funds for educational activities. This project would also be a purposive
mechanism to enhance educational expenditures in these states.
Implementation and Strategy for Local Participation
The existing polytechnics would pay attention to their intake of tribal students from the inception of the
project, and to the availability of courses relevant to and desired by them during the revision of curricula,
training of staff, enhancement of learning resources, and so on. Similarly, the new polytechnics would be
concerned about the intake of tribal students and the relevance of courses offered at appropriate times in
their establishment.
Under the project, the polytechnics would establish Industry/Community-Institute Interaction Cells (ICIIC)
which would develop the capacities needed to design and implement programs that are sensitive to the
culture and needs of tribal communities and responsive to their demands. To begin with, in order to ensure
that these programs are designed for the communities in which they would be implemented, social
assessments would be conducted in the communities likely to be reached by each polytechnic. These would
be followed by the development of detailed community development plans. The social assessments would
provide baseline data on the local communities, their living conditions, vocations, traditions, development
needs and desires. By matching these conditions and needs with the capacities and technology available in
the polytechnics, relevant development programs and goals would be developed. The SAs would be carried
out in the areas of the 12 existing polytechnics in the first year of the project, while the six new
polytechnics would conduct assessments after they are established, but before they begin community
development -- most likely in the third year of the project.
- 82 -



The social assessments would identify local preferences through direct consultation with the communities,
ancd establish a mechanism for continued informed participation by them. Consultations would be held with
traditional representatives and groups (including village/clan councils), elected bodies, and other groups
that represent specific sections, such as women and youth. These groups would be identified during the
stakceholder analyses for the social assessments. The outreach programs developed would take into account
indigenous knowledge, and build in mechanisms for communities to be involved in decision-making during
project implementation, and in program evaluation. Program design would also aim to achieve
sustainability by encouraging management by local people, facilitating this through training, and reducing
dependence on project entities in the long-term.
The faculty, administrative staff and students of the polytechnics would all be involved in the ICIIC
activities, and thus would be actively oriented to and engaged with the communities. They would be
involved in field operations, thus constituting a sizable field presence and providing an interface between
indigenous organizations and local authorities to develop the linkages with government programs mentioned
above. Technical assistance would be obtained by the ICIICs whenever necessary to ensure that they
develop the social and technical skills required to support the initiatives for or by tribal people. They could
also mobilize other agencies such as NGOs to assist in the project in accordance with community needs.
Cost estimate and financing plan. No separate costing or financing plan has been prepared for tribal
development as the project as a whole is addressed to meeting the needs of tribal people in the project areas.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The project's regular monitoring activities would collect information on and assess the enrollment,
cornpletion and performance of tribal students, along with non-tribal students. Information would also be
gathered through tracer studies on the percent of polytechnic graduates employed/self-employed in their
field of training within one year of graduation. The number and profile of beneficiaries of the continuing
education and community outreach programs would also be measured.
Prcqject monitoring reports are expected to provide information on the nature and level of interaction
between the polytechnics and the local communities and industry. Community assessments of the outreach
program would be built into the monitoring of the program, permitting the examination of its relevance to,
performance and success within tribal communities. M&E staff would be sensitized to tribal issues to
ensure that appropriate questions/formats are formulated for monitoring and evaluation, and that data
collection and analyses are relevant and useful. ICIIC processes would also be evaluated to ascertain that
they are meeting community needs.
- 83 -



