Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3413 IN
Project Agreement
(Third Technician Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ARUNACHAL PRADESH
STATE OF MEGHALAYA
STATE OF MIZORAM
STATE OF NAGALAND
STATE OF SIKKIM
STATE OF TRIPURA
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Dated October 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3413 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF ARUNACHAL PRADESH, STATE OF 
MEGHALAYA, STATE OF MIZORAM, STATE OF NAGALAND, STATE OF SIKKIM, STATE OF 
TRIPURA AND STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR, each acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty-eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 48,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that the Project 
States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment to 
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educational 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association and the Project States shall 
otherwise agree, the Project States shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Project States shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and their 
respective portions of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Project States shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
the Project States, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the 
Project States on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
The Project States shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by the Project States of its obligations under 
this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain financial 
management systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Project States responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Project States shall:
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such 
audit, by said auditors,  
of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Project States shall carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the 
financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Project States, by April 1, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Project States shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
Page  4
the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the 
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project States of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For State of Arunachal Pradesh:
Secretary
Department of Education
Secretariat
Government of Arunachal Pradesh
Itanagar – 791111, Arunachal Pradesh
Telephone:
Facsimile:
Page  5
91-360-213112/212851
91-360-214417
For State of Meghalaya:
Secretary
Department of Education
Government of Meghalaya
Shillong – 793001 Meghalaya
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-364-222016
91-364-225978
For State of Mizoram:
Secretary
Education and Human Resource Department
Government of Mizoram
Mizoram Secretariat
Aizaw1 – 796001 Mizoram
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-389-325710
91-389-322745
For State of Nagaland:
Secretary
Department of Higher and Technical Education
Government of Nagaland
Kohima – 797001 Nagaland
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-370-270110
91-370-270087
For State of Sikkim:
Commissioner-cum-Secretary
Department of Education
Government of Sikkim
Tashiling Secretariat
Gangtok 737101 Sikkim
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-3592-23659/23050
91-3592-23050/24725
For State of Tripura:
Secretary
Department of Education
Government of Tripura
Civil Secretariat
Agartala 799 001 Tripura
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-381-326040
91-381-326040
For State of Jammu and Kashmir:
Principal Secretary/Secretary to the Government
Page  6
Education Department
Government of Jammu and Kashmir
Civil Secretariat Jammu, 180001/ Srinagar 190001
Telephone:
Facsimile:
91-191-542880 Jammu
91-191-546554
91-194-452260 Srinagar
91-194-477902
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of each of the Project States, may be taken or executed by its 
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the concerned Project 
State shall designate in writing, and each of the Project States shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF ARUNACHAL PRADESH
By /s/ Sangay Lhaden
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MEGHALAYA
By /s/ Ranjan Chatterjee
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MIZORAM
By /s/ Denghnuna
Authorized Representative
STATE OF NAGALAND
By /s/ Banuo Z. Jamir
Authorized Representative
STATE OF SIKKIM
By /s/ Alok Srivastava
Authorized Representative
STATE OF TRIPURA
Page  7
By /s/ Sudhir Sharma
Authorized Representative
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By /s/ Abdul Ahad
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Civil works and equipment (except vehicles) estimated to cost more 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to respective aggregate amounts not to exceed 
$1,800,000 and $2,550,000 equivalent, and vehicles may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a) 
Equipment which is of a proprietary nature and is estimated 
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $860,000 equivalent; (b) books, proprietary 
software, learning resources and educational materials estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $3,460,000 equivalent; and (c) small items estimated to cost 
less than $500 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,580,000 equivalent may:
(i)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the 
Page  8
required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and 
resources to 
complete the contract successfully;
(ii)
be procured under the unit/piece rate systems through 
qualified contractors; 
or
(iii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account up 
to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent and if they meet the requirements of the 
provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines.
5.
Contracts for operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, 
office rentals and expenses, hiring of vehicles, and consumables referred 
to in paragraph 2(c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,350,000 equivalent 
may:
(i)
be procured on the basis of national shopping for 
contracts estimated to cost 
$20,000 equivalent or less 
per contract in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(ii)
by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines for 
contracts estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each Project State the first contract each 
for goods and works procured under national competitive bidding 
procedures, regardless of the value of such contract, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Page  9
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A of this Section II (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services for 
procurement of works and goods including procurement planning and 
development of technical specifications, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for computer software development, research/studies, 
organization of workshops, and training may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for planning of academic programs and services, 
research/studies and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  10
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $12,000 or more, and 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000 or more, the terms of reference of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. 
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The Project States shall provide additional staff to their 
respective Project polytechnics, Boards and/or Councils of Technical 
Education, Directorates of Technical Education, State Project 
Implementation Units, in accordance with an agreed Schedule of Deployment 
of Key Additional Staff.
2.
To ensure effective financial management of the Project, the 
Project States shall employ, throughout Project Implementation, 
accounting staff as specified in the Project Implementation Plan and a 
Financial Manager, all with experience and qualifications and, in the 
case of the Financial Manager, on terms of reference, agreed with the 
Association.
3.
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Project States shall 
promote close interaction of polytechnics with industry and community by: 
(a) developing and implementing Industry/Community-Institute Interaction 
programs agreed with the Association; and (b) constituting an 
Industry/Community-Institute Interaction Cell at each of their respective 
polytechnics by December 31, 2001.
4.
The Project States shall: (a) ensure availability of adequate 
resources for their respective polytechnics for the maintenance of 
buildings and equipment; and (b) delegate by no later than March 31, 
2002, appropriate financial powers to polytechnics to enable them to 
undertake annual maintenance programs at their respective polytechnics.
5.
During the first year of Project implementation each Project State 
shall prepare a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for 
Page  11
the introduction and establishment of substantial academic, financial and 
administrative autonomy for its polytechnics, and thereafter implement 
such plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
6.
By no later than December 31 of each year, the Project States shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Borrower draft annual 
plans for the next fiscal year for: (a) the introduction of new 
technician programs in their respective polytechnics; (b) the 
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing facilities; and (c) 
training of teachers including local and foreign fellowships.
7.
The Project States shall: (a) develop and establish a Management 
Information System (MIS) in the State Project Implementation Units for 
monitoring and supervision of the Project; (b) implement a supervision 
plan agreed to by the Association; and (c) undertake, in conjunction with 
each other, the Borrower and the Association, a bi-annual review of 
Project progress on the basis of monitorable benchmarks agreed to by the 
Project States, the Borrower and the Association.
8.
The Project States shall, by April 1, 2001, jointly with the 
Borrower, develop and institute fellowship training programs, including 
study tours, agreed to by the Association.
9.
The Project States shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about October 1, 2003, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
