                              Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR0000570




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-34130)




                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.9 MILLION
                    (US$ 64.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO

                                 INDIA

                                 FOR A

                 THIRD TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT




                            December 26, 2007




Education Sector
Human Development Unit
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange rate effective June 30, 2007)
              Currency Unit - Indian rupee (Rs.)
                    Rs. 100.00 = US$ 2.466
                     US$ 1.00 = Rs. 40.55

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       April 1 - March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A&N          -     Andaman & Nicobar Islands
AICTE        -     All India Council for Technical Education
DEA          -     Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DTE          -     Directorate of Technical Education
EdCIL        -     Educational Consultants India Ltd.
FM           -     Financial Management
FMS          -     Financial Management System
GoI          -     Government of India
IBRD         -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          -     International Development Association
IEG          -     Independent Evaluation Group
IRG          -     Internal Revenue Generation
ISO          -     International Standards Organization
J&K          -     Jammu & Kashmir
JKPCC        -     Jammu & Kashmir Project Construction Corporation
LACI         -     Loan Accounting Change Initiative
LRUC         -     Learning Resource Utilization Center
MHRD         -     Ministry of Human Resource Development
MIS          -     Management Information System
NCB          -     National Competitive Bidding
NTTF         -     Nettur Technical Training Foundation
NITTTR       -     National Institute for Technical Teachers' Training and Research
NPD          -     National Project Directorate
NPIU         -     National Project Implementation Unit
OED          -     Operations Evaluation Department (now IEG) ( World Bank)
PAD          -     Project Appraisal Document
PDO          -     Project Development Objective
PWD          -     Public Works Department
QAG          -     Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
SDR          -     Special Drawing Rights
SOE          -     Statement of Expenditure
SPIU         -     State Project Implementation Unit
Tech. Ed.    -     Technician Education
UT           -     Union Territory


                Vice President: Praful C. Patel
              Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
               Sector Manager: Michelle Riboud
           Project Team Leader: Shashi K. Shrivastava
             ICR Team Leader: Andreas Blom
                     ICR Team: Sangeeta Goyal and Renu Gupta

                                                  INDIA
                   THIRD TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 39
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 47
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 52
 Annex 7. Borrower's ICR ............................................................................................. 53
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 68
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 69
 Annex 10. Beyond Numbers: A Glance at Personal Stories......................................... 71

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Third Technician
Country:                India                 Project Name:
                                                                     Education Project
Project ID:             P050658               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34130
ICR Date:               12/26/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 48.9M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 48.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/13/1999    Effectiveness:         01/17/2001         01/17/2001
Appraisal:             03/22/2000    Restructuring(s):                         02/04/2004
Approval:              09/07/2000    Mid-term Review:                          02/04/2004
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      Satisfactory


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                        10                  10
Tertiary education                                                                20
Vocational training                                           90                  70


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                         Primary           Secondary
Education for the knowledge economy                          Primary            Primary
Gender                                                      Secondary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                          Secondary          Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Isabel M. Guerrero               Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:           Michelle Riboud                  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project Team Leader:      Shashi K. Shrivastava            Shashi K. Shrivastava
ICR Team Leader:          Andreas Blom
ICR Primary Author:



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to assist the industrially and economically
underdeveloped, and geographically remote states of the (Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura), Jammu & Kashmir, and the union territory
(UT) of Andaman & Nicobar Islands to expand capacity and improve the quality and
efficiency of technician (polytechnic) education to meet the specific economic needs of
each state. The project will also aim at increasing access of some disadvantage sections




                                              ii

of society (women, scheduled tribes, and rural youth) to technician education and
training.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval        Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percent of polytechnic graduates employed/self-employed in their field of
                training within one year of graduation
                                          AN 65; APR 65;
Value           AN 8; APR NA; J&K 30; J&K 65; MGL65;                        AN 78; APR 46;

quantitative or MGL 40; MZR NA; NGL MZR 65; NGL 65;                         J&K 45; MGL 64;

Qualitative)    50; SKM NA; TPR 60% SKM 65; TPR                             MZR 78; NGL 70;

                                          65%                               SKM 88; TPR 70%

Date achieved 08/01/2000                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (108%)
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Percentage of women students in enrollment in formal programs in each project
                states
                                          AN 40; APR 45;                    AN 46; APR 37;
Value           AN 38; APR NA; J&K        J&K 40; MGL 40;                   J&K 41; MGL 23;
quantitative or 29; MGL 15; MZR 50;       MZR 68; NGL                       MZR 60; NGL 37;
Qualitative)    NGL 40; SKM NA; TPR
                25%                       47; SKM 33;                       SKM 14; TPR
                                          TPR 50%                           47%
Date achieved 08/01/2000                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments        The ambitious target partially achieved (81%). Enrolment of women increased
(incl. %        from 487 to 3,038 (625%). Women made up 38 percent of the student body in
achievement)    2006/07 - against the national average of 22%.

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of Scheduled Cast/Scheduled Tribe students in formal Programs in
                polytechnics

                AN 3; APR NA; J&K         AN 11; APR 70;
Value                                     J&K 7; MGL 95;                    AN 2; APR 74;

quantitative or 50; MGL 95; MZR 95;       MZR 95; NGL 98;                   J&K 14; MGL 99;

Qualitative)    NGL 98; SKM NA; TPR                                         MZR 92; NGL 100;
                47%                       SKM 50; TPR
                                          47%                               SKM 43; TPR 47%

Date achieved 08/01/2000                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (100%)
achievement)




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Increased total enrollment capacity for diploma programs
Value
(quantitative  Capacity: 3630            Capacity: 8,135                     Capacity: 9133
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2000                 06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved (122%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Percentage of curricula revised / developed during project period
Value
(quantitative  Nil                       100                                 100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2000                 06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved (100%) - some curricula revised twice ( not inclded in percentage

achievement)   calculation)

Indicator 3 :  Average time (in years) taken by students to complete a three-year diploma
               program
                                                                             Average: 3.3

Value                                                                        AN 3.2; APR 3.4;

(quantitative  4.5                       3.4                                 J&K 3.2; MGL

or Qualitative)                                                              3.4; MZR 3.5;
                                                                             NGL 3.5; SKM
                                                                             3.3; TPR 3.1
Date achieved 08/01/2000                 06/30/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments       Achieved (102%). Not all polytechnics have an information system capable of
(incl. %       tracking students across years. Thus for those polytechnics, this indicator relies
achievement)   on sampled information.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     02/02/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/01/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       2.89
  3     12/20/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       3.29
  4     05/28/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       3.62
  5     11/25/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       6.04
  6     06/23/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     11.09
  7     12/01/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     14.28



                                               iv

  8   05/10/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 20.90
  9   11/29/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 29.24
  10  05/24/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 41.14
  11  11/04/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 48.82
  12  05/09/2006         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 54.66
  13  11/08/2006         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 62.96
  14  03/23/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 63.72
  15  06/27/2007      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory                 68.52



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board      Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                    Key Changes Made
                              DO       IP   in USD
                                            millions
  02/04/2004                   S       S       16.34




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Liberalization of the Indian economy, its gradual integration with the world economy
and rapid transformation into a knowledge-based society are increasing the demand for a well-
trained workforce- a workforce that is not only literate and has mastered specific skills, but is
also able to acquire new skills and knowledge independently. The pace of change and the
intensity of competition are both likely to increase as the economy continues to reform.

2.      The northeastern states, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar Islands, with comparatively
small populations, have already achieved rates of primary and secondary school enrolments
and literacy that are much higher than the national average. However, despite the existence of
a better educated labor force and considerable natural resources, these states/union territory (UT)
have not been able to benefit much from the ongoing economic reforms in India due to their
locational disadvantage, difficult terrain, extremely low population densities, and lack of
competent technical manpower. A significant proportion of the population continues to live
below the poverty line. Jammu & Kashmir too has not been able to exploit its full economic
potential due to inadequacy of technical manpower and the periodic disturbed conditions. Most of
these states have a very high percentage of people belonging to various tribal communities and/or
minorities. Lack of opportunities for proper training and employment is resulting in frustration
amongst the youth. The Government of India has supported major schemes for economic and
industrial development of these states. The success of these investments will depend on, amongst
other things, the availability of quality technical manpower in adequate numbers.

3.      The main sector issues identified in a Bank sector study on Scientific and Technical
Manpower Development in India from 2000 were: (a) over-centralization and lack of autonomy
and accountability of institutions; (b) resource constraint and wastage; (c) poor quality and
relevance; (d) poor technology/infrastructure support; and (e) limited access and regional
disparity (equity).1

4.      The Bank rationale for the project was linked to the following elements of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India from 1997 (Report No. 17241-IN): (a) increase the
efficiency and responsiveness of technical training institutions to the changing labor market; (b)
support to key areas of policy reforms through the program's reforms to improve effectiveness
and efficiency of technical education; (c) focus on poverty alleviation activities through greater
participation of women, tribal communities and other disadvantaged groups in technician
education, and formal and non-formal programs for technical training of the rural and urban poor;
and (d) Bank support for better infrastructure facilities for technical education in the states.

5.      The Bank's value added to the project was oriented towards capacity building and the
discipline attending to implementation of an investment project assisted by the World Bank. In
the case of the comparatively deprived and isolated States, this was thought to be even more
important than it was for the States covered by the first and the second Technician education
projects. Further, the Bank would increase the special attention to equity including the economic
needs of women and tribal communities and the necessity for balanced development of the
technological infrastructure.



1India Scientific and Technical Manpower Development in India, Report No. 20416-IN, World Bank
(2000).




                                                   1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.       The objective of the project was to assist the industrially and economically
underdeveloped, and geographically remote states of the northeastern region (Arunachal Pradesh,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura), Jammu & Kashmir, and the union
territory (UT) of Andaman & Nicobar Islands to expand capacity and improve the quality and
efficiency of technician (polytechnic) education to meet the specific economic needs of each
state. The project also aimed at increasing access of some disadvantage sections of society
(women, scheduled tribes, and rural youth) to technician education and training.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
7.       Neither the Project Development Objectives nor Key Indicators were formally revised
and approved by the World Bank's Board.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
8.       The PAD identified the following as main beneficiaries:
     Students completing 10/12 grade, who wish to develop specialized skills for employment;
        about 8,000 regular students will be enrolled in project polytechnics and over 2,500
        students will graduate every year after all new programs are introduced;
     Tribal groups and women from low and middle-income families will constitute majority
        of students;
     The continuing education and non-formal training programs will primarily cater to the
        needs of youth (largely from rural and urban poor families); about 10,000 persons are
        expected to undergo such training during the project period;
     The polytechnics will serve the needs of small and medium-scale industries and various
        government departments through training of quality manpower, continuing education
        programs, and consultancy services;
     Community service activities of the project polytechnics will be targeted to cover 8-10
         villages or about 500 poor households near each polytechnic during the project, and
     The general administration in project states could also benefit from the experience gained
         during the project through institutional networking, computerization of administrative
         and financial records, performance-based financing, transparent methods of procurement
         of civil works/goods/services, and systematic project management through monitoring
         and evaluation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
9.       The project covering a total of 12 existing and 6 new polytechnics in the eight project
states had three components: (i) Developing/ expanding capacity to provide increased access to
technician education; (ii) Enhancing quality of education to produce better trained technicians;
and (iii) Improving efficiency through better planning, administration and utilization of the
system and increasing its responsiveness to emerging labor market needs.

    (i) Capacity Development/Expansion (US$ 48.18 million) will be achieved by: (a)
         establishing six new co-educational Polytechnics and a skill development center, (b)
         strengthening 12 existing polytechnics and introducing new programs, (c) introducing
         continuing education and non-formal training programs for industry and community, and
         (d) providing student and faculty housing facilities.

    (ii) Quality Enhancement (US$ 22.85 million) will be achieved by: (a) modernizing existing
         laboratories and workshops, (b) developing/revising curricula to meet labor market needs



                                                 2

          as well as imparting entrepreneurial skills, (c) improving staffing and imparting staff
          training, (d) increasing utilization of learning resources and media, and (e) promoting
          interaction with industry and community.

     (iii)Efficiency    Improvement      (US$    9.05   million)   will   be    achieved    by:   (a)
          establishing/strengthening state boards/councils/directorates and other support units
          dealing with technician education to provide better planning, monitoring and guidance,
          (b) conducting research studies for systemic reforms, (c) instituting computer-based
          project and financial management systems, (d) providing substantial academic, financial
          and administrative autonomy with accountability to project polytechnics, (e) networking
          of polytechnics with other institutions/organizations, and (f) enhancing state-level policy
          support for technician education

1.6 Revised Components
10.       None of the components were revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
11.       At mid-term review, the GoI and the Bank assessed that costs savings permitted
financing of three new polytechnics, thereby increasing enrolment capacity. These were not
planned for in the PAD and represent an over-achievement. The states of Tripura and Jammu &
Kashmir managed to design, contract, construct, and equip the three new Polytechnics in less than
three years.

12.       The project scaled-up support to technical and vocational education and training
(TVET). At mid-term, US$ 8.9 million of unallocated loan proceeds were reserved to
institutionalize and support scaling-up of vocational training courses. The financing supported the
creation of 19 additional Skills Development Centers, in addition to the one that was planned in
the PAD. Further, two extension centers were added to the six already planned for the Andaman
& Nicobar Islands.

13.       The scope of outside quality certification was increased during project implementation.
This went beyond the original project design. External quality certification was achieved through
ISO-9000 certification and academic accreditation by the National Board of Accreditation.

14.       The project was extended one year on the basis of three factors: (i) the mountainous and
rocky construction sites required unforeseen groundwork. Further, the remoteness of the
construction sites implied difficulties in identifying qualified contractors, transporting equipment
and supplies to the sites; (ii) natural calamities such as the 2004 Asia Tsunami in Andaman &
Nicobar Islands, heavy snowfall and earthquake in Jammu & Kashmir, and severe land slides in
Nagaland delayed implementation (see section 2), and (iii) many of the states were first time
implementers of externally funded project and possessed limited institutional capacity.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15.       Quality-at-Entry was Satisfactory for the following reasons: the design built upon
lessons learned from earlier projects, corrected earlier weaknesses, and was more ambitious in
target setting. It benefited from a thorough sector study. It foresaw critical risks and substantially
mitigated those risks in project implementation. Lastly, the project was swiftly prepared, while
still conducting consultation with all stakeholders.

16.       The project improved design from the second Technician Education.                The third
Technician Education project increased focus on skills in high demand among employers, such as


                                                   3

soft skills (team work, presentation skills, communication skills, etc.), problem-oriented skills,
and entrepreneurial skills. Further, the project scaled-up effective networking by linking the
supported polytechnics with successful polytechnics in earlier projects and with NITTTR

17.       The design incorporated lessons learned from relevant projects. The project design
followed recommendations from: (i) an Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of
projects in technical education and training in India by involving more state institutions, increase
efforts to raise internal revenue generation (IRG), and set more ambitious targets for access for
women, and (ii) the ICR for the Technician Education project I and II (Tech. Ed. I and II). In
addition, the design emphasized up-front policy reforms, such as autonomy, IRG policies, and
strengthening of state boards, which the ICR found had not sufficiently taken place in Tech. Ed. I
and II.2

18.       The project design was informed by a sector study on technical education allowing for a
comprehensive sectorial approach to reform of technical education in the concerned states/UT.

19.       The design identified the critical risks. The PAD discussed the following substantial-and
medium-level risks of the project: (i) expected policy reform may be delayed, (ii) limited
opportunities for industrial linkages in the states, (iii) limited demand for new programs, (iv) slow
procurement, (v) funds flow from states may not be adequate, (vi) faculty recruitment for new
programs may pose difficulties due to non-availability at the local level, (vii) civil work may be
delayed due to remoteness of location and hilly terrain and limited fair weather--the only risk
rated substantial, and (viii) weak implementation capacity. Risk (i) to (vi) were effectively
mitigated by the proposed actions, see Section 3. Risk (vii) and (viii) resulted in a one year
extension of the project. In hindsight, the risk related to procurement was underestimated and/or
the mitigating action of appointing procurement consultants was insufficient.

20.       The Quality Assurance Group of the Bank (QAG) assessed the Quality of Entry to be
Satisfactory, albeit with shortcomings. The assessment praised the government's ownership, the
thorough preparation of the technical aspects, and the focus on equal access to training for
women. The review warned that: (i) the project was supply-driven and did not sufficiently
involve the private sector, (ii) the PAD was over-optimistic in terms of demand for graduates in
the state/UT economies and the economic analysis was insufficiently detailed, (iii) the PAD could
have further described intended policy reforms and clearly defined the key indicator for the
reforms, and (iv) the PDO contained a multiplicity of conflicting objectives. In hindsight, this




2The project implementation structure maintained the same nomenclature as in the Tech. Ed. I and II
projects, but there was a larger involvement of the state and union entities in implementation. In most states,
the State Directors of the project were either part of the state directorate of technical education or a
principal of a supported polytechnic. At the union level, the Project Director was over an extended period
also an official in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). This closer involvement of the
government institutions ensured a strong ownership of the project and a sustainable strengthening of
institutional capacity. Further, the third phase built upon the capacity in the NITTTRs. Nevertheless, the
project could have formally involved the All-India Council for Technical Education, AICTE, as part of
project implementation. AICTE oversees technical education in India. Such formal collaboration could
have increased dissemination of best practice and beneficial interaction for both AICTE and the
participating states and polytechnics. However, the Government of India did not endorse a formal
involvement of AICTE in the project at the time of project preparations.




                                                        4

report finds warning (iii) to be partially appropriate, while warning (ii) and (iv) seem overly
zealous.3

21.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) was clear, concise, and ambitious. Further,
the project's activities could reasonably be expected to influence the PDO during the lifetime of
the project. The PDO was closely linked to the monitoring and evaluation framework, which
contained baseline values and targets. The PDO was ambitious in the sense that it targeted
improvements in five key aspects of technician education: expansion, quality, efficiency,
relevance, and equity. As recommended by the QAG review, the PDO could have established
primary objectives and secondary objectives as a way to differentiate the importance of each the
five objectives of reform. This differentiation could explicitly have guided implementation when
deciding upon activities that involved trading-off improvement in one objective over another.4

2.2 Implementation
22.      Implementation was rated satisfactory at all times of implementation. The project was
at no time flagged as a project at risk due to continuous efforts from the states, federal
government, and the Bank. During the first two years of implementation, there were significant
efforts by the NPIU and the Bank team to support the slower performing states in accelerating
implementation. Thereafter, implementation progressed according to plan.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
23.      The design of the monitoring and evaluation system was better than the average project
at the time of approval. The key indicators were clearly defined. They were appropriately linked
to component output, project output, and project impact. The number of indicators was suitable.
The PAD contained baseline values in most cases, and targets were ambitious and unambiguous.5

24.      The M&E framework was implemented, actively utilized, and acted upon during
implementation. There was a strict and periodic monitoring of indicators as indicated in each
Review report by the NPIU and the Aide memoirs. Further, polytechnics and state implementers
commissioned tracer studies to establish the indicators related to the labor market performance of
graduates. Considering the dearth of data at project initiation, the concurrently available
information on all critical aspects of the education process is noticeable. The M&E framework



3 For warning (iii), the PAD clearly describes intended provision of substantial autonomy to the support
polytechnics, but the key indicator for policy reforms could be clarified. Private sector involvement was
sought not through provision but through involvement in the educational process (curriculum design,
industry training, industry assessment, and job-interviews. In hindsight, these strong linkages from the
supported public institutions to industry achieved the desired targets of employment. As discussed in
section 4, these linkages seem likely to be sustainable, but it cannot be guaranteed. Lastly, the QAG
warnings led the Bank team to further increase its emphasis on private sector involvement, which pre-
empted the realization of the warnings.

4 There exist trade-offs between the five objectives. However, they are not necessarily conflicting as
suggested by the QAG review. As shown by the outcomes of the project, it is possible to achieve
improvements on all five objectives in the same project.

5 Two impact indicators could have been fully defined at approval: (i) effectiveness and stage of
implementation of proposed systemic reform, and (ii) nature and level of interaction with local community
and industry. As explained in Annex 2, these indicators were constructed ex-post as composite indicators
determined by a combination of other impact and output indicators.




                                                      5

included an impact study and two utilization studies, which each summarized detailed utilization
reports from each of the 21 institutions. These studies relied upon field visits to each supported
polytechnic and large surveys of beneficiaries as reported below and in Annex 5.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
25.      Social assessment and Tribal plan was successfully implemented. Safeguards for
indigenous people were triggered for this project. The tribal plan was implemented as described
in the PAD. In particular, the project undertook an extensive social assessment following project
approval. This plan interviewed more than 150 interviewees for each participating state including
NGOs, local people in the communities, and opinion leaders. The assessment collected
suggestions from the communities regarding educational programs, needs, constraints, non-
formal training and other types of interventions that were subsequently introduced. As explained
below, this is likely to have been one of the reasons behind the improvements in access of
women, tribal, and rural students, and the increase in community interactions.

26.      Procurement process was decentralized to the State level. Slow procurement through a
centralized agency constituted the Achilles heel of the Second Technician Education project.
Decentralized procurement was found to be more nimble (ICR No. 20415-IN). As a consequence,
the procurement processes were fully decentralized for the third Technician Education project.
Each State Project Implementation Unit (SPIU) was assigned the procurement responsibility in
order to increase coordination with approving state authorities and accelerate the release of funds.
Beyond reviews of the first National Competitive Bidding for goods and for civil works for each
state, prior review only existed for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for all civil
works above US$ 300,000. Other procurement only required post reviews. For works five states
engaged national level construction agencies as procurement consultant. Three depended on their
own departments/ agencies. For goods, national level procurement agencies were selected
competitively by each state with the approval of the Bank. To build local capacity at the state
level, NPIU conducted a series of training sessions in procurement and provided guidance to the
SPIUs. States complained about slow processing by the procurement consultants. After mid-term,
the contracts with procurement consultants were gradually closed and states undertook
procurement independently.

27.      Adherence to procurement guidelines for local procurement was insufficient: Although
provided in the legal agreement, the project was not subjected to regular post-procurement
reviews. The report of the first review (for 2004-05) conducted in 2006 was not made available
to states. The detailed post-review for 2005-06 for all states/UT conducted after the project
closing found deviations from guidelines in all 8 States/UT. The post review examined 99
contracts out of 407 for the year (24 percent). It found deviations from procurement guidelines in
53 contracts. Of these, 18 contracts (including 9 local shopping contracts from Nagaland and 3
works contracts from J&K) had significant deviations. The deviations were among others: use of
state procedures instead of Bank procedures, splitting up of seemingly similar purchases to avoid
using national competitive bidding, insufficient documentation of 3 quotes under shopping,
insufficient adherence to bidding dates and bid opening procedures. The Bank has sought
response from the states to the observations to take appropriate action.

28.      Oversight of the local procurement process was insufficient. The decentralization of the
procurement process was appropriate in order to build local procurement capacity and speed up
procurement. Further, government officials appreciated the use of Bank guidelines and standard
documents. In several states, standard clauses in Bank documents were invoked to ensure
contractors delivered high quality civil works. The Bank team undertook regular visits to
institutions and SPIUs--all institutions were visited during the project period. These visits
included review of procurement processes and usage of procured items. In the first half of the



                                                  6

project, a procurement specialist was part of the visiting team. Further, the Bank team and the
National Project Director followed up on two specific complaints, which led to termination of
services of a procurement consultant, review of a works contract before award, and a report to the
Bank's independent Department for Integrity regarding fraudulent certificate of a local contractor.
Nevertheless, the Bank and Borrower's oversight was insufficient to ensure sufficient adherence
to procurement guidelines for local procurement. Given the new modality of decentralized
procurement, oversight should have been more careful. This could have been undertaken through,
more frequent post-reviews, and more direct oversight of Bank procurement specialists. More
Bank oversight would have increased the hassle-factor of working with the Bank and slowed
down the procurement process, but this seemed to have been necessary. Earlier post reviews with
follow-up on findings and dissemination to state governments would probably have strengthened
state officials' strict adherence to Bank procurement guidelines without slowing down
significantly the procurement processes.

29.      There were no major Financial Management (FM) issues, but oversight could have
been strengthened. Financial Management oversight was mostly limited to desk review of
documents, and usually did not include field visits/ interaction with project states or institutions.
Therefore review of FM aspects relating to internal controls, staffing, effective utilization of
funds etc. was inadequate. Audits were carried out as required and submitted timely with some
states submitting audit reports with 1-2 months delay. Though audit reports did not unearth major
Financial Management issues, these were focused on review of eligibility of expenditure for
reimbursement from the Bank.6 Increased participation of FM specialists in review missions or
other missions would have strengthened Bank guidance and review of financial management.
This shortcoming has been taken into account in the on-going TEQIP project where the Bank's
FM specialist has participated regularly in the review missions since project inception.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
30.      The transition from project finance to regular budgeted state finance has to a large
extent been achieved. The project financed few recurrent costs. Recurrent costs for operations
funded out of the regular budget grew gradually over the life time of the project. Participating
States have allocated recurrent expenditures for the polytechnics for FY07/08. Copies of state
budgets for fiscal year 07/08 and/or financial sustainability plans have been reviewed. Therefore,
the recurrent budget will fund the institutions for teacher and administration salaries, training and
maintenance of infrastructure and equipment. Further, each polytechnic prepared an institutional
sustainability plan with a budget as part of their strategic planning.7




6 The project equally financed the development and institution of a computer-based project and financial
management system. This was a requirement under the mandatory Loan Administration Change Initiate
(LACI) in Bank project approved from 1998 to 2001. This system was successfully developed by NPIU
and installed and tested on a pilot basis in the SPIU in Andaman and Nicobar Islands in 2001. Hardware
and software and training were provided to other states also. However, the scaling-up proved cumbersome,
since the requirements for system made it difficult to integrate with existing institutional, state and federal
accounting systems. This was a common criticism of the LACI requirement. In December 2001, the Bank
responded by making its guidelines for Project Financial Management more flexible and dropped the
requirement of a standardized, fully integrated project management system. Given the downsides of the
fully integrated project system and its implementation difficulties, the project partners decided not to
implement the developed system in all project states.

7 Some of the institutions may be eligible for support on a proposed second project of the
Technical/Engineering Education Quality Improvement project (TEQIP II). However, this potential second


                                                       7

31.      Maintenance, training for maintenance, and spares of equipment and laboratories are
found to be satisfactory. A second utilization study from May 2007 relying on site-visits to all
polytechnics concluded that: (i) consumables, spares and operational manuals are available and in
proper and regular use, except in very few cases, (ii) training of staff in maintenance has occurred
in most cases, (iii) in-house capacity for maintenance exist in the majority of cases for vehicles
and for some equipment, while other major equipment is still covered by manufacturers'
guarantee. Most buildings and equipment are new thus requiring minimum maintenance.
Nevertheless, there exists room for improvement through annual maintenance contracts for major
equipment, and in long term maintenance either through establishment of an effective oversight
mechanism of maintenance by public work departments or a formal contract for maintenance to a
contractor.

32.      The sustainability of reforms, institutional capacity, and financing of the polytechnics is
further discussed in Section 4 on risk to development outcomes.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
33.      The project is highly relevant for following five reasons:

     The objective of support to the less economically developed states with full ownership to
         supported project was and still is appropriate. The federal government and the selected
         states had a strong ownership of the project as aimed for in the Bank's CAS for FY 1998-
         2000. Further, the importance of equal distribution of the fruits of economic growth was
         emphasized during the time of project implementation. This project focused exclusively
         on assistance to less economically developed and remote states/UT of India. This is
         equally consistent with the India CAS approved in 2004.

     The focus on inclusion of disadvantaged groups of society is highly appropriate given
         their low participation in technician education. Inclusion remained a strategic priority in
         the three CAS' covering the project's duration, the two federal government's plan for
         technical education (9th and 10th five-year plan) and the Bank's sector plan for technical
         and vocational training. The 11th five year plan and the government in power at the time
         of writing (2007) emphasizes inclusive growth where inclusion of disadvantaged groups
         in the education system is key to a more equal distribution of the benefits of India's rapid
         growth.

     Increasing access to quality technician education is relevant for the Indian economy. First,
         the education sector remained a priority sector for Bank assistance during the years of the
         project. Second, recent economic growth is driven by service sectors, including the IT
         sector, and manufacturing. Lack of skilled technicians is becoming a bottleneck for
         continued high growth in both sectors. For example, the industry association for software
         and services, NASSCOM, estimates that India will lack 500,000 engineers by 2010,
         (NASSCOM 2005). The project preceded and accommodated this surge in demand for
         technically skilled labor.

     The design included both policy reform and investments. A large share of the loan
         proceeds financed construction and equipment (64 percent) for public institutions. These



project is expected to support creation of post-graduate programs, which few of the Polytechnics have the
academic capacity to introduce. All projects states have been informed about this option and limitation.




                                                      8

         "hardware" purchases were combined with policy changes, such as decentralization of
         decision making through increased autonomy, curriculum reform, training, and revenue
         generation/cost-sharing. Further, the project included actions to ensure teaching was
         aligned with private sector demand. The public intervention is justified by the need to
         promote equity in provision of educational opportunities. The design was in line with
         both the Bank's sector study for India undertaken jointly with project preparations, and
         the Bank's education strategy, World Bank (1999).8

     The project design and implementations focus on sharing expertise through networking
         institutions and sharing experience across states through joint review missions.
         networking with excellent polytechnics to adopt best teaching practices, assist in helping
         in industrial training, curriculum reform and facility interviews for graduates. For
         instance, the two Polytechnics in Mizoram were twined with S.B.M. Polytechnic in
         Mumbai, which was a well-performing institution under the first Tech. Ed. project.
         Similarly, Sikkim twinned with Nettur Technical Training Foundation (NTTF), a non-
         governmental organization from Bangalore. Given the large experience in India, this
         cross-fertilization of experiences is considered good practice.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
34.      The project more than fully achieved its objective. It assisted the Government of India
and State governments in expanding enrolment by 388 percent, improving quality (83 percent of
graduates are either employed or accepted in further education) and raising efficiency (utilization
rate of seats increased from 58 percent to 84 percent). Further, the project increased access to
disadvantaged sections of society. Intake of both women and SC/ST students increased five-fold
in absolute numbers. Achievements exceeded expectations in three key areas: first, three
additional and new institutions were created reaching further remote and under-served areas.
Second, improvements in quality were externally certified through accreditation and ISO-9000
certification. Finally, these improvements were achieved while lowering annual recurrent per
student costs by 35 percent in real terms.

35.      This section will first examine the project's achievement of the PDO as measured by the
outcome indicators specified in the PAD. Second, it summarizes the achievements of the outputs
as gauged by the PAD targets. Lastly, it discusses the link between output and outcome.

A. Impact and Outcomes
36.      The project succeeded in systematically reforming technician (polytechnic) education in
the supported states/UT. This reform consisted of six elements:

(i)    Increased capacity and enrollment, in particular for women, SC/STs and rural students.
       Student intake capacity increased from 3,630 at the baseline to 9,133 (252 percent, and 122



8The QAG review in 2001 criticized the project design for not bringing in private providers of education,
since this was one element of the Bank education strategy. At project end, none of the states/UT has private
providers of diploma technician education. With sufficient, credible, and long term subsidies, private
providers could potentially have been incentivized to enter a build and operate contract for provision of
technician education. However, it is uncertain whether long term outcomes would have improved, since: (i)
private-aided schools in India have been shown to perform on average similarly to public schools, (ii)
proper public oversight would remain important for outcomes, (iii) private providers would have to be
compensated for the risk of sunk costs, should demand for technical education not be forthcoming or public
subsidies were to be ceased, and (iv) the remoteness and risk of unemployment of graduates could have
deterred private investments.




                                                     9

      percent achievement of target). Enrolment increased from 1,623 pre-project to 7,919 in
      2006/07 (507 percent and 102 percent achievement).9 Enrolment of women increased from
      487 to 3,038 (625 percent). Women made up 38 percent of the student body in 2006/07 as
      compared to 30 percent in 2000/01. A 28 percent improvement (8 percentage points). The
      share of women enrolment in the project states/UT is close to double that of the national
      level, 22 percent. However, the improvement was lower than the ambitious target of 47.6
      percent (81 percent achievement). As discussed later, there were several initiatives to
      further strengthen intake of women students. 3,482 SC and ST students received technical
      education in 2006/07 compared to an estimated 723 in 2000/01 (482 percent). On average
      SC/ST students made up 59 percent of the student body in 2006/07, which was the targeted
      share in the PAD (100 percent achievement). The number of students from rural areas
      increased from 626 to 4,605 (736 percent). Rural student now make up exactly two thirds
      of the student body which exceeds the target share of 58 percent (115 percent achievement).

(ii)  Improved quality and branding of technical education. Objective measurement of quality of
      education is difficult. Best available indicators are employment rate of graduates (see
      below) and external certification. Programs at two institutions were accredited during the
      project. Accreditation certifies that these institutions comply with national academic norms,
      monitors factors important for quality, and possess capacity to self-evaluate. Importantly,
      these certifications imply a commitment to periodically assess quality and obtain feedback
      from internal and external stakeholders. This fosters continual change and sustainable
      quality. Nine obtained ISO-9000 certification through the establishment of documentation
      of all key processes, and establishment of monitoring, evaluation and feedback
      mechanisms. Only two were certified prior to the project. Further, state officials and
      principals rank increased awareness and demand for technical education as the most
      important impact of the project (Annex 5).

(iii) More autonomous and empowered institutions. States/UT have granted increased autonomy
      to polytechnics as envisioned at approval. Full academic and managerial autonomy has
      been decentralized to the institutional level in six states. Limited financial and
      administrative autonomy is provided to most polytechnics. Two states awarded full
      autonomy to the polytechnics through the creation of societies. Although, decentralization
      is difficult to quantify, it is estimated that the autonomy objective was achieved by 125
      percent. The autonomy enables the institutions to independently make financial, managerial,
      administrative, and academic decisions to respond to local market needs, innovate and
      achieve efficiencies. Public oversight and regulation was moved closer to the institutions.
      For example, Sikkim established a State Board of Technical Education. The polytechnics in
      Tripura de-affiliated from the West Bengal Board of Technical Education and affiliated to
      Tripura University. Besides signaling higher state capacity in oversight, these changes give
      greater academic flexibility to respond to state specific economic and social needs.

(iv) The institutions increased responsiveness to demand and linkages with local industry.
      Seven out of ten of the graduates from the 05/06 batch of students found employment. The
      PAD target was 65 percent (104 percent achievement). Taking into account the proportion
      of graduates that continued their studies at a higher level (mostly engineer studies) the



9 Ten of the 60 new education programs initiated under the project started in 2004/05. Therefore, there
were no third year students in those programs in 2006/07. The polytechnics had capacity ready to
accommodate these students in 2007/08. Adjusting for this time lag in the student population, the enrolment
would increase to 107 percent of the target.




                                                   10

            employment rate achieved was 83 percent, which correspond to a 127 percent achievement
            of the target. Number of students interacting with industry increased by 1,571 percent over
            the baseline.10 The interaction increased employability of graduates and probably also
            raised motivation and learning outcomes of students.

  (v)       Higher efficiency. Capacity utilization increased dramatically. From using 58 percent of the
            authorized seats pre-project, 83 percent of seats were filled by the end of the project,
            despite the large increase in admission capacity. Annual per student costs decreased in real
            terms by 35 percent. On average, students completed the diploma course in 3.3 years
            compared to the PAD target of 3.4 years (102 percent achievement).

  (vi) Higher financial sustainability through cost-recovery. Cost recovery increased to Rs. 10.5
            million during the life of the project (121 percent achievement). This represents 9 percent
            of total revenue expenditure. Student fees increased by a factor of six in nominal terms, and
            revenue from sales of service and products doubled.

  (vii) Increased response to specific state economic needs. Although it is early to measure, the
            available indicators suggest that the changes and investments resulted in an education that
            better meets the states' economic needs: (i) institutions were better empowered to respond
            to local needs, (ii) placement rates increased, (iii) sale of services to industry increased, (iv)
            most new programs were over-subscribed, (v) local and national industries have started
            recruiting at the polytechnics, and (vi) built advanced human capital and specific capacity
            to respond to natural catastrophes. Over time, the increased availability of skilled
            technician labor is likely to contribute to private investment.

                               Figure 1 Achievement of PAD Impact and Output Targets

                                                                                                                        253%


           127%      122%                                                   122%                                                               121%
                                                      115%
                                                                107%
                                          100%                                         99%      104%                               102%
 100%                                                                                                        93%
                               81%




    0%
 Impact & Systemic No of new  Women       ST/SC       Rural      % of      % of labs   % of    Employment  Industry Beneficiaries Completion    Cost-
 Output   reform     seats   students    students    students curricular      and    teachers    rate    interaction training and   time      recovery
indicators                                                   reoriented to workshops and staff                        community
                                                               market     modernized  trained                          services
  Project
Development        Expansion     Access for Disadvantaged                   Quality               Meet State Economic Needs            Efficiency
 Objective


          Note: Enrolment of women students increased 525 percent during the lifetime of the project. The female student population now
          makes up 38 percent of the student population in project states/UT, which compares to 22 percent at the national level.




  10   Students benefited from increased interaction with industry through lectures from industry, training in
  industry, visits to firms, campus interviews with firms, and student participation in industry projects. Very
  few students out of a small student population benefited from industry interaction at project start. This
  made a dramatic increase in industry interaction possible. The increase is calculated for the states where
  baseline data on industry interaction were available at project initiation. Nothing indicates that a similar
  improvement did not occur in states without baseline data. The reported averages are calculated as the sum
  of the state outcomes when appropriate and as the un-weighted averages across states for the remaining
  indicators. See Annex 2 for details.




                                                                          11

37.      The outcomes represent          Figure 2 Improvement over Baseline
a significant improvement over              900%                                                     1571%
                                                         End of project 2006/07
baseline. Figure 2 presents the             800%         Baseline 2000/01          736%
outcome and impact indicators as            700%             624%
a percentage over the baseline              600%

value for the indicators where a                                         482%
                                            500%

non-zero baseline was established.          400%
                                                                                            308%
In brief, the project helped                300%   252%
                                                                                                                169%
states/UT      and       institutions       200%
                                                       100%       100%        100%     100%    100%       100%      100%
significantly enhance technician            100%

education over the duration of the            0%
                                          IndicatorNo of new   Women       ST/SC     Rural Employment Industry    Cost-
project.     On average, most                       seats     students    students students   rate   interaction recovery
project states exceeded their             ObjectiveExpansion     Access for Disadvantaged  Meet State Economic Efficiency
targets (details in Annex 2).                                                                     Needs




B. Outputs

38.     Component 1 succeeded in capacity development and expansion. On average, targets
for capacity and expansion were exceeded substantially (135 percent). This component accounted
for 60 percent of the total. Nine new polytechnics as against the project target of six were
established. They have all been in operation for two years. Capacity of another 12 existing
polytechnics has been substantially enhanced. Sixty diploma programs and post-diploma
programs were established. The goal was 52 new programs (115 percent achievement).11 As
mentioned, student intake capacity increased by 5,503 places (122 percent achievement) from
3,630 at baseline to 9,133. Enrolment increased from 1,623 pre-project to 7,919 (488 percent).
Number of hostel seats for boys increased by 1,065 (84 percent achievement) from 900 at the
baseline to 1,965. More hostel seats were created for girls, 1,252 (100 percent achievement).
Significant increase in faculty and staff residences was also achieved. The training, continuing
education and community programs substantially exceeded their aims (210 and 253 percent). The
increased emphasis on training and establishment of 19 additional Skills Development centers
decided at mid-term, where US$ 8.9 million of unallocated loan proceeds were added to training
and community programs, contributed to this achievement.

39.     Component 2 achieved the envisioned support of Quality of technician education. On
average, goals were exceeded by 5 percent. The component financed inputs that aimed at a
quality improvement through: (a) modernization of 143 existing laboratories (113 percent
achievement) and establishment of 221 new laboratories (131 percent achievement); (b) The
curricula of all programs were revised according to labor market needs (100 percent achievement)
and 58 new curricula were developed (114 percent achievement). Revisions centered on advances
in technology, learning through experimentation, and self-learning through information-search
used for assignments. Further the revisions introduced curricula with multi-point entry and credit
systems in 80 programs (91 percent achievement) to make the programs more flexible. However,
the polytechnics have still to take advantage of the multi-point entry system, in the sense that only
in very few cases are the competences of entering students assessed and admitted at other levels
than semester 1; (c) Interaction with industry increased greatly through student attachment in




11In Sikkim, the plan of introducing six post-diploma programs was modified to introduce four additional
diploma-programs due to low demand for post-diploma programs.




                                                      12

industry, industrial visits, industry expert lectures, campus lectures, and participation in industry
projects. Further capacity to interact with industry was strengthened and institutionalized through
establishment of Industry-interaction cells in each Polytechnic, and (d) training of 560 faculty
members (102 percent achievement), while training of other staff reached a 96 percent
achievement. Despite high demand and several planned events, only one foreign training tour was
realized. The approval process of foreign tours--needing high level State and Government of
India approval--seems too cumbersome. The lack of study and training tours leads to sub-optimal
transfer of global best practice to and from India.

40.     Filling the teaching positions required a substantial effort. The project succeeded in
filling on average 89 percent of sanctioned positions across states (98 percent achievement).
However, 130 positions are still vacant due to unavailability of qualified teachers. This risk was
identified in the PAD. The mitigating action of inviting guest lectures was effective, but not fully
sufficient to address the shortage of faculty. The risk was exacerbated during the project, because
of the surge in demand for technical professionals at the master and PhD level in the Indian labor
market due a major expansion of private engineering education, and the healthy economic growth
during the life time of the project. Further, the polytechnics faced difficulties in attracting
qualified teachers due to the perceived remoteness of the participating states/UT. Almost 100 of
the available vacancies are in Jammu & Kashmir. A national initiative for development of faculty
is necessary to relieve the shortage of qualified teachers.12

41.     Component 3 accomplished the targeted efficiency improvements. On average, the
efficiency targets were met (101 percent achievement of the efficiency targets for component 3,
which does not include the per-student costs discussed in the economic analysis). This paragraph
summarizes the achievement of the approved efficiency targets, while the following economic
analysis examines efficiency beyond the targets in particular per student costs. As a result of
higher quality of teaching, equipment, and management, internal efficiency increased as
measured by: (i) student drop out, which was reduced by 33 percent on average from 6 percent to
4 percent (79 percent achievement), and (ii) average time to complete the diploma, which reached
3.3 years (102 percent achievement). As discussed above, the project States/UT progressed
significantly on the granting of autonomy to the institutions (125 percent achievement). The
polytechnics and states adopted policies for sharing of Internal Revenue Generation (IRG), which
in most instances now are fully retained by the institution. Thus giving a strong incentive for sale
of services. In combination with change culture and new equipment, IRG increased to Rs.105.9
million during the project life (121 percent achievement). It now represents 8 percent of total
budget on average with large variations across states.


C. Causality between project outputs and impact
42.     It seems highly likely that project inputs and policies supported in the components led
to the significant improvements in technical education, and that the improvements would not
have occurred in the absence of the project. As is always the case, it is difficult to prove
causality from project activities to state level outcomes on a large scale for non-randomized
interventions. Nevertheless, there were no major external factors during the project, such as major
industrial projects or a demographic bulb that could credibly explain the major outcomes
(increased capacity utilization from 58 percent to 84 percent, increased employment rate reaching



12 A working group under AICTE estimated that the national shortage of faculty (teachers, assistance
professors, and professors in technical and engineering education) will reach 230,000 in 2011, (AICTE,
2005).




                                                     13

83 percent, or increased internal revenue generation) that took place across the eight participating
states/UT. Further for this project, the outputs are closely tied to the impacts. For example,
financed activities such as job interviews on campus and industry training of students and faculty
are closely linked with the measured impact: employment. Annex 2 compares the evolution of the
key performance indicators between project states, comparable North-Eastern states that did not
participate in the project (Manipur and Assam) and the national level. Only in project states did
polytechnic education improve significantly in India since 2002. Comparable North-Eastern state
that did not participate in the project did neither increase enrolment, nor increase enrolment of
women and SC/STs. For example, the share of women students increased from 27 percent in
2002 to 38 percent in 2007 in project states. This compared to: (i) an increased in female
enrolment in the two comparable North Eastern states from 17 percent in 2002 to 18 percent in
2005, most recent available data, and (ii) an increase at the national level from 20 percent in 2002
to 22 percent in 2005. Similarly, overall enrolment of technician education increased by 255
percent in project states, while it only increased 2 percent in comparable North-Eastern states, and
declined 9 percent at the national level.

3.3 Efficiency
43.     The project assisted the 21 supported Polytechnics in substantially improving
efficiency. Annual recurrent cost per student was reduced by 35 percent in real terms. This was
primarily realized through an increase in the seat utilization rate from 58 percent to 84 percent.
Internal efficiency was further improved by an improvement in repetition rate, although smaller
improvement than targeted. External efficiency was equally enhanced. Employment rates reached
an average of 83 percent (excluding students that continue to further studies). Due to insufficient
information regarding the methodology and assumptions of the cost-benefit analysis in the PAD,
this report could not update the cost-benefit analysis. It is essential that assumptions and
methodology are explicitly stated in the economic annex of the PAD. The average salary of a
graduate from class of 2005/06 amount to 83 percent of the salary level that would have made the
project have a 10 percent rate of return, according to the original cost-benefit estimation.
However, this pre-project calculation does not take into account the higher employment rate or
the 35 percent reduction in annual student cost. A new cost-benefit (internal rate of return)
estimation was thus undertaken. It finds that the project's internal rate of return varies from 22
percent to 26 percent depending upon the future lifetime unemployment rate for the supported
beneficiaries (5 percent to 15 percent).

44.     A detailed report on Utilization of procured civil work (space), equipment, learning
resources and other goods found that the financed items were in almost all cases fully installed
and satisfactorily put to use. The report relied upon site visits to all institutions and SPIUs. It
found space utilization of classrooms, laboratories, drawing halls, computer centers, and
workshops to be adequate, satisfactorily utilized, and as per planned requirements. Hostels,
faculty and staff residence are well utilized. The utilization of equipment is generally satisfactory.
This is particularly the case for Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Nevertheless, Mizoram
and Tripura could increase the use of large equipment. In most cases, consumables, operation
manuals and essential spares are available. Learning resources are adequate, consistent with
national norms, maintained well, and usage is high. The report recommends an even further
integration of laboratory, workshops and library resources in the learning process to increase
work-based learning. The report also followed upon detailed recommendations at the state level
from a similar utilization study. It concludes that the states took actions on most suggestions.




                                                  14

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

45.     The rating is justified by the projects being highly relevant, its achievement of all
outcomes, the over-achievement of main key outcomes, and doing it in an efficient manner in
all states. The only drawback was the insufficient adherence to the Bank guidelines for local
procurement in some states.

Table 1 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Objective                     Relevance       Achievement of            Efficiency           Outcome
                                                 outcomes
                                                 (efficacy)

1. Expansion                     High         Over-achieved

2. Improve Quality               High         Over-achieved

3. Improve Efficiency            High         Over-achieved
                                                                                              Highly
4. Meet State Economic                                                 Substantial         Satisfactory
Needs (relevance)                High            Achieved

5. Increasing access to
disadvantaged sections           High            Achieved
of society (equity)


46.     Further, it should be noted that these states are economically and industrially under-
developed states compared to the national average. Often such states face greater difficulties in
achieving project targets due to lower capacity, limited experience, and greater geographical
distance. Almost none of the participating states had the required expertise and capacity to design
and construct the civil works envisaged under the project. Further, the revision of curricula and
focus on industry and soft skills training were new to the states. The strategy of twining: (i) state
implementers with experienced external consultants, and (ii) polytechnics with recognized
national institutions combined with the sharing of experiences through the Joint Review Mission
worked highly satisfactorily.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
47.     Poverty of the beneficiaries and their families and local economies were diminished as
a consequence of the project. Since poverty impact is an over-arching theme, not directly aimed
at in the PDO, there is no formal impact study on poverty. The principal impact on poverty is the
increased earning power and employment of the graduates. During the six years of the project,
16,000 full-time students benefited from the improvements in technical education (the later
batches of students enjoyed higher quality of infrastructure, better trained faculty, redesigned
curricula, and better linkages with industry. Using the 2006-outcomes, over 75% of students
would find employment within one year of graduation with an average salary of Rupees 4,000 per
month. This salary level is substantially above the national poverty line.13 Prior to the project, a


13National Poverty Lines: Rs. 370 per capita per month for rural area and Rs. 561 per capita per month for
urban areas in 2005-06 prices.




                                                  15

substantially smaller share of graduates found meaningful employment. We assume that between
20% (the poverty level of the least poverty affected participating state/UT) and 40% (the poverty
level of the most poverty-affected participating state/UT)14, of the student population came from
poor families. These assumptions on poverty prior to enrolment and the above labor market data
from 2006, implies in an admittedly simple back-of-the-envelop calculation that, at least between
5% and 18% escaped poverty as a consequence of the project. Further, the supported polytechnics
are strongly expected to continue educating youth in the same manner, thus multiplying the above
impact on poverty in the next 15 to 20 years. A large number of the immediate dependents of the
graduates would equally exit poverty. In addition, the project assisted 18,032 members of the
local community through the community programs and 5,143 through continuing education and
training programs. Some of these beneficiaries are also likely to have escaped poverty. Lastly, the
project would have an indirect, but possibly important, impact on increased productivity of
companies in the local economy leading to higher job-creation.

48.      Women in the supported states benefited from a 525 percent increase in access to
technician education. The number of female students surged from 487 in 2001 to 3,038 in
2005/06 (528 percent increase). In Jammu & Kashmir, where women have traditionally had fewer
educational opportunities, enrollment increased ten-fold from 122 to 1358. Despite these
improvements, the achieved share of enrolment, 38.4 percent, fell short of the ambitious target of
47.6 percent. Nevertheless, the achieved female share of enrolment is considerably above the
outcome achieved in the two earlier Technician Education projects in India (30 percent and 28
percent for Tech. Ed. I and II, respectively). Further, it compares favorably to 11 percent, 23
percent, and 22 percent in Assam, Manipur, and the national average, respectively. Not
surprisingly, the increased enrolment comes from establishment of one Women Polytechnics,
expansion and improvements of three Women Polytechnics, construction of hostel facilities for
women (1,252 new seats), new programs with a traditional higher share of females (garment
technology, cosmetology, interior design, food processing, medical lab technology, electronics,
and computer science), tuition discounts for women, and targeted promotion. External factors
such as the general increase in women in the labor market and reduced perception of technical
education as male-dominated, have also contributed to the increased enrolment. The ICR
recommends that the special initiatives for female enrolment continue, and that leadership is
further nurtured among female teachers in order to raise the number of female principals over
time, in particular in Women Polytechnics. Further, women made up a large share of the 9,600
beneficiaries of community and continuing education programs. One concrete such example from
Andaman and Nicobar Islands is presented in Annex 10.

49.      The project contributed to a more equitable distribution of educational opportunities in
remote areas. Seven of the nine new polytechnics were the first post-secondary education
institutions in their district, for example, the construction of polytechnics in remote districts, such
as in Leh, Kargil, and Eastern Sikkim. In addition, more remote islands were served by six
polytechnic extension centers. Increased public service has been shown to decrease social tension
and discontent.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
50.      Institutional change was the fundamental underlying objective of this project, and
most polytechnics strongly developed their longer-term capacity and service to society. The
project implemented a three-pronged strategy to build longer-term capacity in the institutions.
First, the polytechnics were awarded greater autonomy and institutional boards were established



14Not including Jammu & Kashmir which had less than 5% poverty ratio in 1999-2000.




                                                   16

with the dual purpose of giving voice to more stakeholders at the board of the institutions, and
reduce the day-to-day governmental interference from high level government. In addition, several
institutions de-filiated from distant over-viewing bodies and affiliated to more local over-viewing
bodies. The case of Tripura and Andaman & Nicobar Islands were mentioned in Section 3.2.
These policies created space for the institutions to become a driving force in local community.
Second, a series of capacity building activities sought to nurture the states, institutions and their
leaders to take advantage of this increased space. These activities included workshops on strategic
planning, financial planning, and institutionalized mechanisms for feedback from stakeholders
(students, graduates, and employers), and training of administrative staff, faculty and principals.
Of particular importance seems to be the frequent interaction of principals, state officials, and
faculty with outside institutions assisting and edging them to improve performance. These
interactions include visit from and to networking institutions, peer learning among the
participating states and institutions, the Joint Review Missions with the Bank and NPIU teams,
and the academic consultants. Thirdly, the project provided the necessary investments to improve
quality and carry out the planned activities.

51.      Certain institutions and states better seized the opportunities brought by increased
autonomy, capacity building activities and investment funds. Longer term capacity is
approximated by ability to meet the targets, absolute performance, and external certification of
quality and relevance. This is equally confirmed by timelines of implementation, quality of state
ICR, and contributions to best practice identified during the Joint Review Missions. Determining
factors seem to be: (i) political and personal commitment to technician education, and (ii)
leadership and team work within the state and institutions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
52.      The assisted institutions developed an ability and pro-activeness in responding to major
emergencies such as the Tsunami in the Indian Ocean; land slides in Nagaland; and snow
storms and floods in Jammu & Kashmir. During Project implementation Jammu & Kashmir
experienced natural calamities like excessive snowfall during February 2005, Earthquake in
October 2005, floods in the valley during September 2006 resulting in loss of life and property.
These calamities created tremendous human sorrow and material damage. In the case of the
Tsunami, it diverted focus from project implementation to relief efforts for about eight months.
More importantly, the polytechnics stepped up to the challenge and forcefully responded using
their increased capacity and project equipment in the Tsunami relief efforts (Box 1).


Box 1 The Vital Role of the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Govt. Polytechnic in Tsunami Relief Efforts

On December 26, 2004, the Sumatra-Andaman earthquake with a record magnitude of 9.0 triggered a
gigantic tsunami. Waves up to 15 meters hit the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. The A&N Govt. Polytechnics
and their six extension centers supported by Technician Education III played a vital role in the relief and
rescue efforts. In particular, the Polytechnic undertook the following actions:

(i)    Students and Faculty established a Disaster Relief Management System. The system captured and
       disseminated photographs and information of more than 40,000 tsunami victims. Students and
       faculty surveyed more than 185 tsunami relief camps to collect names and information of orphans,
       deceased, and other victims. The information was crucial in informing families and in effectively
       distributing relief to those most affected by the tsunami.

(ii)   The Institution's video conferencing system was the only functioning communication to the Southern
       Group of Islands that was most effected. Six months prior to the Tsunami, V-SAT facilities at six
       extension centers of polytechnics in the A&N Islands were installed to provide distance education.
       Despite being affected by the tsunami, communication was re-established within 24 hours and
       served as a vital channel for assessing human loss, material damages, linking family members of
       more than 2,000 families, communicating relief needs, and coordinating emergency relief.



                                                      17

(iii)  Students in Hotel management prepared food for more than a month for two Tsunami relief camps.
       Using the institution's training facilities, the polytechnic delivered lunch and dinner to more than
       250 victims of the tsunami (at the cost of the institution).

According to the institution, the key enabling factors in understanding the institution's rapid and effective
response were the industry training of its students and faculty combined with its "may-I-help-you attitude?"
This preparedness had trained them to use the up-to-date equipment and ICT infrastructure, their technical
knowledge, and ability to work as a team to meet the catastrophically urgent need of the Islands.

The example shows that long term policies, such as increased autonomy, that empower the institutions and
build genuine institutional capacity and responsiveness to specific state needs is faster and often more
effective than most other relief efforts. Further, long term investment in up-to-date ICT equipment and on-
site ability to immediately put the technology to effective use in relief work is necessary.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
53.       Two surveys were carried out to gain insight into the design, implementation, and impact
of the project. One set of surveys focused on retrieving feedback on the impact from the main
beneficiaries of the project. Another survey undertaken by the ICR team sought feedback from
federal and state government officials described in Section 5.

54.       The Impact Study carried out by four NITTTRs (National Institutes of Technical
Teachers' Training and Research) surveyed beneficiaries from all eight states/UT. The
responses from graduates, final students and faculty are consistent and suggest: (i) Strong
utilization and satisfaction with new equipment, laboratories, and learning material, (ii)
curriculum, syllabus, course schedule are adhered to, (iii) quality, knowledge and effectiveness of
teachers, laboratory staff, and teaching are adequate and satisfactory, (iv) Relation to industry
(interviews, industry involvement in teaching etc) is good, but requires efforts and can become
better, and (v) teaching became more student 춆ocused with active participation of students, either
in lab work of through project based teaching. Nevertheless, students still feel that teaching could
use more project-based teaching related to real-life work situations, and employ more learning
resources and ICT in the teaching.

55.       Surveyed employers recognized an improvement of skills. Employers opinions are
summarized as follows: (i) Employers generally rate the graduates as possessing adequate
technical knowledge, good to excellent competencies in handling equipment and machinery, (ii)
very satisfied with personal/soft skills, including communication, punctuality, team work, ability
and willingness to learn, and management skills, and (iii) employers suggest to further
incorporate project related teaching and field exposure.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: moderate

56.       This risk to development outcomes is moderate. The project has built a conducive policy
framework, longer term capacity and the necessary infrastructure for the polytechnics to maintain
excellent quality and relevance of technician education. Nevertheless, state governments must
maintain adequate funding, respect institutional autonomy, and demand accountability from each
institution. Most importantly, institutional excellence must be pursued actively and constantly by
the boards, principals and faculty of the institutions. This will continue to require substantial
efforts from a visionary and dedicated leadership of each polytechnic and the state and federal
government. The risk rate of moderate reflects that this institutional capacity and state
government oversight may gradually diminish over the next five to ten years. The overall
assessment of the individual risks and mitigating actions presented in the table below.




                                                      18

Table 2 Risk to Development Outcomes: factors and mitigating actions
Develop-      Risk                 Potential causing factors     Mitigating action / critical actions
ment
Outcome
Increased     Part of buildings     No maintenance or spares     Spares and guarantees were part of
capacity      and equipment lie     Insufficient No. of teachers  purchase contract
              idle:                  due to either lack of budget States    have   budgeted     for   an
              Low risk               or teacher shortage           adequate    no.   of   teachers    and
                                    Low demand from youth         teachers are available (but not
                                     for technician education      always high quality)
                                                                  With quality, demand from students
                                                                   is forthcoming
Improved      1) Reversal in use    Lack of funds or demand      Institutional drive and capacity
Quality       of          current    (above causing factors)       (continue with strategic planning
              equipment,            No update of curriculum or    and elicit feedback from users)
              practices,      and    program offering             Mission to reach out to society (ISO
              curricula: Low        Decline    in   training  of  certification and accreditation)
              2) Gradual decline     teachers                     Pressure from outside board to
              in quality due to     No       replacement      of  continuously       improve     (boards
              failure to continue    equipment                     established as part of the project)
              improvements and      Decline in industry training Funds from budget to replace
              updates: Moderate      of students                   equipment and train (the increase in
              (in medium term)      No    systematic    feedback  internal      revenue      generation
                                     from industry and students    mitigates)
                                    Insufficient use of learning Accountability demands from govt.
                                     resources                     through its boards for technical
                                                                   education (strengthened in project)
Increased     Decline          in   Maintain     quality    and  Institutional drive and capacity
Efficiency    utilization   rate:    capacity (above risks)       Mission to reach out to society (ISO
              Moderate        (in   Decline     in    placement   certification and accreditation)
              medium term)           activities                   Pressure from outside board to
                                                                   continuously       improve     (boards
              Decrease         in                                  established as part of the project)
              employment    rate:                                 Accountability demands from govt.
              Moderate        (in                                  through its boards of technical
              medium term)                                         education
Increased     Decline          in   Reduced       intake    into Focus from policymakers
opportunit    enrolment   among      programs with traditional    Institutional     commitment        to
ies     for women: Moderate          high female enrolment and     inclusive education (as promoted in
Women                                conversion     of     female  the project)
and           Decline          in    hostels
SC/STs        enrolment   among     Reduce efforts into targeted
              SC/STs: Low            marketing campaigns and
                                     tuition discount for these
                                     groups
Overall       Moderate

57.     The financed improvements and immediate gains achieved during project are likely to
be sustained. This concerns use of equipment and updated curriculum, inclusion of soft skills in
teaching, links with existing companies, and trained teachers. The principal risk is insufficient
funding for continued investments. Responses to the survey of principals and government
officials involved in the project signal confirm this assessment. On a scale from 1 (high risk) to



                                                 19

10 (low risk), inadequate public funding is rated 6.9; hence, a medium to low risk. Similarly, the
sustainability of the increase in IRG is rated the second highest risk (7.1). Hence, funding is
expected to be tighter than before reflecting the real and hard budget constraints facing the state
governments. It should be noted that the majority of leaders of education institutions in most
countries claim this to be the biggest risk to educational outcomes. In this case, the State
governments have--with the help of transfers from the Union Government--budgeted allocations
to run the expanded polytechnics. Hence, funding of teachers and learning resources are
forthcoming. Further three states/UT (Sikkim, Tripura, and Andaman & Nicobar Islands) have
asked the polytechnics to teach degree level programs (one level higher than the traditional
diploma level), which signals a sustained government commitment to the institutions. Another
mitigating factor is the institutions' increase in IRG. These funds present an alternative source of
revenue averaging 8 percent of total revenue (46 percent in the case of Sikkim), and are in almost
all cases fully managed by the polytechnics themselves.

58.      To maintain infrastructure and equipment up-to-date will in the medium to long run
require new investments. It is recommended that each institution establish a depreciation/renewal
fund that each institution manages in order to smooth out the costs of major equipment, major
maintenance jobs, and new infrastructure. Hence, annual state budget should include an adequate
share for future equipment and infrastructure replacements that are managed autonomously by
each institution. Obviously these accounts should be audited to avoid misuse. Such accounts are
currently being implemented for institutions participation in the TEQIP project.

59.      The risk of a gradual decline in relevance of education due to changing labor market
demands is moderate in the medium term. In the coming decade, existing skills and knowledge
needs will change, and entirely new demands for skill will emerge. The polytechnics should
respond with innovations to course-offering, curriculum, and link to new firms and economic
sectors. This requires the institutions to continue being dynamic and outward looking. Based on
other Indian and international experience, the role of stakeholders, including government officials,
to ensure a dynamic institution is critical. The established policies of external boards, feedback
mechanisms from graduates, students, and firms, links with peer institutions, and external quality
certifications will push for such change. In particular, renewal of ISO certification and
accreditation will necessitate continue improvements and responsiveness to local economy.
Another indicator of the States and institutions continued commitment to improvement is the
introduction of post-diploma programs in the polytechnic facilities. Both Tripura, and Andaman
& Nicobar Islands have introduced post-diploma course. This is an encouraging sign of ability to
respond to needs through institutional change. Nevertheless, this risk to development outcome is
deemed moderate in the medium run due to the risk of reduced attention from policymakers and
Board of Governors to the outcome of the polytechnics.

60.      A set of second generation reforms to strengthen autonomy and accountability is
desirable to fortify the gains of the project. Respondents to the survey of principals and state
officials identified the risk of governmental interference in the day-to-day administration of the
institutions, which is equal to not respecting the institutions' right to autonomy. This risk includes
hiring of principals and faculty for political motives. Such interventions risk derails gains from
long term planning and leads to diminished institutional capacity. As government oversight
increasingly focuses on technical aspects and the external boards of institutions become
institutionalized, this risk should be reduced. State and government policies could be improved
through so-called second generation reforms.15 For example, federal policies could facilitate


15 Given the required time to implement reforms to grant autonomy and strengthen institutional capacity,
such second generation reforms could not meaningfully have been included in the timeframe of this project.



                                                   20

appropriate government oversight through development of accountability mechanisms, enhanced
collection and dissemination of institutional performance data allowing for benchmarking of all
institutions (second generation reforms).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

61.      The Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on the quality at entry, consultations
with stakeholders, tribal plan preparation, sought remedies to eliminate the shortcomings in
earlier projects, and swiftness of preparation. These topics were discussed previously in this
document.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

62.      Quality of Supervision was Satisfactory, because the Bank team acted as an effective
agent of change, was adequately composed, gave timely advice on procedures, and built capacity
through out the supervision period.

63.      The       review/supervision
team was high level technical. The       Table 3 Rating of the Bank Team

team composed of recognized, high                                                                     Rating        All
                                                                                                          this    India
level   experts   in    technical and    Question                                                     project
engineering       education.      This                                       10 Highly favorable; 1 Highly unfavorable

provided the team with credibility       The Bank worked efficiently                                       9.2       6.8
                                         The Bank helped to strengthen institutional capacity              9.5       6.9
towards    state   governments    and    The Bank and partners in Government collaborated
principals in calling into question      well together                                                     9.1       6.6

sub-standard     policies.  Although,    Overall I liked work/interact with Bank Staff                     9.5       7.2
                                         The World Bank treated clients and stakeholders with
some international expertise were        respect                                                           9.5       6.3
brought-in as part of preparation and    The Bank's procurement requirements made it

review, the Bank team could have         difficult to work with the Bank (low is good)                     5.1       5.2
                                         The Bank played a useful role in reducing corruption,
included more expertise from abroad,     collusion and nepotism in this project                            8.3       4.3
which is often perceived to be one of    The Bank imposed reasonable conditions on its

the Bank's strengths. There was also     lending                                                           9.3       5.7
                                         Note: The survey received a moderate response rate of 59 percent (20 out of
a high team stability with no change     36). The all India survey included a large share of media and stakeholders not
in task team leader, which has been      directly involved in a World Bank project. This could reduce comparability of
                                         the two surveys.
shown to be important in the Bank
team's impact in a project. Further, there were consistently input from social experts and a
professional architect. As discussed earlier, Bank review of adherence to Bank procurement
guidelines was insufficient. Also, inadequate involvement of the Financial Management function
during project supervision weakened fiduciary oversight on the project. Overall supervision effort
was not comprehensive to that extent. In an anonymous survey of government and school
officials, Table 3, the team was rated favorably on its efficiency, ability to collaborate and interact
in a courteous way with the clients. Compared to the average rating of the Bank in India, as
surveyed in the 2004 client survey, the review team scored above the Bank average.

64.      The Bank team played the role of agent of change during review missions. Together
with NPIU, Bank team members developed best practice guidelines and templates on autonomy,



                                                    21

revenue sharing policies, student feedback mechanism, and other policy guidelines. These
responded to knowledge needs and public goods in the project that facilitated implementation of
the reforms. Also, the review missions introduced and promoted additional quality improvement,
such as the ISO-9000 certification, accreditation, installation of language labs in polytechnics,
and more soft skills in teaching. By using the Bank's role as a convener of the Joint Review
Mission, the team facilitated peer learning, exchange of experiences, and cooperation across the
project states. Lastly, the Bank team acted as an agent of change by setting a high standard for
implementation and quality of technical education, which stimulated states to better performance.

65.      The Team made monitoring and evaluation a cornerstone of the review mission.
Further, the evaluations, impact study, and utilization studies to verify efficient and effective use
of funds was best practice as well.

66.      Finally, some team members were based in India, which increased interaction with the
counterparts and lowered costs. Further, team members could visit problem states to advance
implementation on an on-going basis. Project preparation costs only amounted to USD 134,000,
which was the lowest preparation project cost for a Bank Human Development project in India
during FY01-FY07. The average cost for the same period was USD 466,000 (current prices). The
supervision of the project from FY01- FY07 cost on average USD 78,000 which was slightly
below the average for a human development project in South Asia (USD 85,000).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Both the Bank's performance in ensuring Quality at Entry and at Supervision were evaluated to
be Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

67.      The performance of the federal government is rated satisfactory based on its continued
support and oversight in project implementation. The Department of Higher Education in the
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) was responsible for project implementation
through the National Project Director. The project enjoyed strong support from MHRD which
facilitated implementation. Further, the close link between MHRD and the Central Project
Advisor (Head of NPIU) facilitated flow of information and linkages with the federal government.
Nevertheless, a combination of slow approval of foreign travel for faculty, principals, and project
officials, and low quality of proposed foreign training tours resulted in only two instance of
foreign training. For other project, the government could consider delegating the authority for
approval of overseas travel to the state level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

68.      The National Project Implementation Unit performed satisfactorily based on the highly
satisfactorily outcome of the project, its facilitation of implementation, and quality of technical
advice. The NPIU coordinated project implementation at the national level and guided States in
their implementation. As such, the Unit and its staff merit credit for the strong outcomes of the
project. In particular, the Unit's effort in assisting states with workshops, exhibits, and guidelines
on implementation, courses, workshops on development of strategic planning, and Learning
resources carried fruits. Further, dissemination to state through the NPIU website is also very
good practice. In the survey of government officials, Annex 5, the NPIU scores high in overall



                                                    22

facilitation of implementation and in the quality of educational and academic advice.
Nevertheless, there seems to be room for improvements in the "provision of timely and adequate
advice, where the NPIU did not receive a rating as high as its other ratings. Further, there was
room for improvement in the staffing of the NPIU, which suffered from a relatively high turn-
over of Central Project Advisors (head of NPIU), which, to a certain extent, hampered pace and
continuity of project implementation.

69.      The States governments are on average rated satisfactory. The State governments
through state project implementation units (SPIU) were the implementing agencies of the project.
Generally, the project supported remote states that are comparatively less economically
developed, with little experience in foreign funded projects, and relatively lower implementation
capacity. Despite these disadvantages, project implementation and outcomes were highly
satisfactory. Compared to the two earlier Tech. Ed. projects, the staffing of the SPIUs and flow of
funds were overall considerably more stable. The survey of government officials suggest that
state government performed best in overall facilitation and approval of training and faculty and
staff. On the other, the state could have accelerated the implementation of autonomy and IRG
policies. A similar shortfall was noted in Tech. Ed. I and II projects. Further, adherence to
autonomy and IRG policies equally receive a relatively low rating, suggesting state governments
need to institutionalize and internalize the policies promoted by the project.

70.      Performance varies across states. Annex 2 includes a table comparing the achievement
of targets of key indictors by states/UT. All states/UT achieved or exceeded on average their
targets. In particular, the polytechnics in Andaman & Nicobar Islands exceeded most targets (196
percent achievement of targets on average of the 13 key indicators). This was achieved primarily
because of higher government commitment and institutional team and leadership. The A&N
polytechnics stand out in its service to community and industry, its industry-involvement and its
immediate responds to the Tsunami. However, other states excelled on individual areas. For
example, Nagaland and Sikkim succeeded in raising employment rates to above 80 percent.
Sikkim reached a cost-recovery ratio of close to 50 percent. Tripura raised enrolment rate of
women student in technician education from 25 percent to 47 percent (second highest after
Mizoram with 54 percent and highest achievement of target for women students, 118 percent).
Jammu & Kashmir increased enrolment capacity by 2,894 students (158 percent achievement).
However, state-specific shortcomings existed as well. Tripura did not succeed in raising revenue
generation. Sikkim fell short of the enrolment target for women. Some of these shortcomings
were due to overly ambitious targets. Other state-specific shortcomings are expected to be
overcome in the next years of operation given the institutional arrangements and capacity put in
place. The post-review of adherence to Bank procurement guidelines procurement in 2005/06
contracts found that A&N Islands and Mizoram had the lowest number of deviations from
guidelines, while over half of the contracts reviewed in Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, and
Nagaland contained deviations. State governments should build upon the important gains of the
project and address these state-specific shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
71.      Both the performance of the Federal Government, NPIU, and the State Governments
(Implementing Agencies) were rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned


72.      The project design, implementation and impact allow us to draw important lessons. Some
lessons are new, but the majority confirms the high impact of consistent implementation of



                                                  23

already-identified best practice combined with new demanded skills. The lessons are divided into
educational lessons and project implementation lessons.

A. Educational lessons learned
73.     Impressive results with proven policies and inputs, consistency, focus on demanded skills
(soft practical skills useful in Industry).

74.     Quality and relevance of education drives demand for technical education and is
necessary to increased efficiency. Quality improvements were necessary to not only increase
demand for technical education, but also to increase employment rates and salaries of graduates.
The increased demand led to a more than doubling of the capacity utilization, which together with
the betterment of the labor market outcomes significantly increased efficiency of technician
education. As such, quality of education can drive efficiency of education.

75.     The project showed best practice on provision of learning and knowledge sharing
opportunities. The Bank review missions were carried out jointly with all state teams present.
This allowed for significant peer learning and peer pressure. The survey of state officials and
principals found that sharing of experiences and learning best practices were almost as important
objectives of the joint review mission as the guidance on procedures and rules for implementation.
Three other learning opportunities were built into the project. First, networking with excellent
polytechnics to adopt best teaching practices, assist in helping in industrial training, curriculum
reform and facility interviews for graduates. Second, workshops and site visits from the NITTTRs.
For example on utilization of infrastructure, curriculum development, and equipment. Third,
workshops, templates and guidance from NPIU and Bank teams, such as on student feedback
mechanisms and strategic institutional planning. These learning opportunities facilitated
significant peer learning from the academic consultants, provided national recognition of stellar
performance through an (informal) name and shame process, and dissemination of successful
policies. Including such frequent interactions and networking in project designs and approach
review missions as opportunity for peer learning among project participations could be best
practice and should be used more in Bank project and supervision.

76.     Low demand and prestige of technician education can be overcome. In many countries,
including India, technician education are at time perceived to be the less alternative to academic,
generalist secondary and tertiary education. This project succeeded in raising interest and prestige
of technician education through its quality improvements and the related marketing campaign of
the improvements. Such quality initiatives and the marketing of high placement rates can
overcome a perceived low prestige of technician education.

77.     The project successfully linked policy changes with investments and capacity building.
Not only lack of funds hampers educational outcomes, in many countries policies provide few
incentives to education institutions for improvements. Therefore, regulations need to change to
augment returns on investments. This project strongly encouraged state governments to upfront
increase institutional autonomy and provide guidelines for internal revenue generation. As such
the project succeeded in combining a set of policy changes with a set of investments that jointly
increased outcomes. However, some states did not award institutional autonomy in all dimensions
to institutions as recommended. Future projects involving policy changes could consider
including elements of performance based funding so as to maintain strong accountability
mechanisms.

78.     Soft skills are highly valuable and teachable. This was one of the first Bank projects that
implemented courses focused on imparting soft skills. Most polytechnics offered coaching and
classes in soft skills (team work, interview skills, presentation skills, communication etc.) As
reported by both graduates and employers, the imparted soft skills were highly relevant to the




                                                24

work place and increased graduates' chance of landing a well-paid job and thus lowering the risk
of poverty.

79.      There is an urgent need to increase availability of qualified faculty staffing in India.
Through targeting recruiting and hiring of guest-teachers, the project practically achieved the
target for faculty staffing (98 percent achieved). However, the pool of qualified teachers was very
limited and the share of guest-teachers relatively high. Combined national data on vacancies of
faculty position, this signals an urgent need for increased production of master and PhD graduates
to fill the vacancies. Further, continued faculty development through further education and
industry training is equally necessary.

80.      Female enrolment in technician education can be increased significantly by targeted
interventions. Some claim that it is difficult and expensive to counter the traditional bias against
women in technical education. The project shows that targeted programs, such as creation of
women polytechnics and suitable, demanded, careers, combined with marketing to young women
and their families clearly can achieve a higher enrolment of females in technician education.

81.      The importance of industry involvement in technical education cannot be over-
emphasized. Industry involvement through student and faculty training in industry, firm visits,
industry representatives at the board of the polytechnics, curriculum workshops, or advisory
board, increased by 92 percent during the project. Through these channels, the supported
polytechnics enhanced their technical training to include the practical skills and knowledge that
closely reflect practices in the hiring industries. Together with the quality improvements, the
increased industry involvement is likely to have been crucial for the marked increase in
employability of graduates.

B. Lessons Learned for Project design and implementation
82.      Projects can achieve strong results in remote and less economically developed areas.
Despite a limited implementation capacity, little experience with Bank projects, and remoteness
in transportation, the support states/UT provided the political support and engagement to achieve
the project's results. The project confirms that strong outcomes can be achieved despite
remoteness.

83.      Sustained sector involvement by the Bank improves outcomes. Project outcomes
consistently improved from first Technician Education project to the third Technician Education
project. For example, employment rates increased from 65 percent in the second Technician
Education project to 70 percent in the third project. Female enrolment was raised from 30 percent
and 28 percent in the first and second Technician Education project and to 38 percent in the third
project. The Bank, MHRD and NPIU teams jointly climbed a learning curve in project
implementation which resulted in better outcomes. Further, the sustained sector involvement was
achieved through IEG evaluations and sector work. The increased focus on outcomes and
efficiency is in particular notable across the three projects. Together, this produced a quality
design, better monitoring and evaluation frameworks, and fostered effective and pro-active
supervision.

84.      Complete PAD with all indicators clearly defined and assumptions and detailed for
economic analysis.

85.      Adherence to procurement guidelines requires continuous review in particular when
procurement is decentralized. A decentralization of procurement responsibility seems to work
more nimbly, but poses a greater challenge in oversight. Therefore, increased Bank oversight
becomes necessary, in particular post reviews with follow-up and dissemination of findings.
Further, procurement training needs to be further emphasized. Further, adequate participation of
fiduciary specialists in review missions is necessary.



                                                  25

86.     Set a side contingency for construction. Despite the advice, most states committed the
allocated amounts fully at the time of signing contracts. This resulted in need for additional funds
for price escalation, costs overruns, and other variations, which consequently had to be funded
out of state budget which slowed down completion and increased uncertainty of funding. The
shortage of funds implied that only 84 percent of the planned places hostel places for men could
be constructed. Hence, the project confirms that governments should set aside a contingency
funding when large scale construction is involved.

87.     Field based supervision permits closer engagement of the Bank in project
implementation. The majority of Bank team members supervised the project from the Country
office (CO), which permitted more frequent interactions with project states, NPIU, and MHRD.
The blend of HQ-based team-members bringing global experiences with CO-based members is
likely to have increased quality of supervision and decreased costs of supervision.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
88.     Borrower's ICR is attached in full at Annex 7. It provides more details on academic
aspects of the project. The Bank's assistance and the role of the Bank team during the project
design and implementation are appreciated.


(b) Cofinanciers
89.     All states submitted state-wise ICR reports. These were incorporated into the overall
Borrowers' ICR. The full state reports are on file, and available at the NPIU. Each State
appreciated the support of MHRD, NPIU and the Bank during project implementation.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                                26

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

              Components                        Appraisal Estimate Actual Estimate                            Percentage of
                                                   (USD millions)               (USD millions)                   Appraisal
 CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT/
EXPANSION                                                   48.18                         48.49                      101%
 QUALITY ENHANCEMENT                                        22.85                         21.55                      94%
 EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT                                       9.05                        13.37                      148%


                 Total Baseline Cost                        80.1                          83.41                      104%

Physical Contingencies                                         0.00                         0.00                      0.00

Price Contingencies                                            0.00                         0.00                      0.00
                  Total Project Costs                       80.05                         83.41                      104%
Project Preparation Fund                                       0.00                         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                             0.00                         0.00
        Total Financing Required                            80.1                          83.41                      104%

Note: Project costs by component are converted from INR to USD using the average of the quarterly exchange rate from Q2 2000 to
Q2 2007 IMF International Financial Statistics, 45.92. In INR




 (b) Financing
                                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest

              Source of Funds                             Type of            Estimate            Estimate          Percentage of
                                                      Cofinancing              (USD                (USD               Appraisal
                                                                             millions)           millions)
 International Development
Association (IDA)                                                               64.9                 71.0                109%

 Borrower Government of India,
including State Governments                                                     15.2                 12.4                 81%

Total                                                                           80.1                 83.4                104%
Note: Total project costs by component are converted from INR to USD using the average of the quarterly exchange rate from Q2
2000 to Q2 2007 IMF International Financial Statistics, 45.92.. IDA financing are reported using the exchange rate at the date of
disbursing. Hence, the estimate financing of the Borrower could differ from the actual due to exchange rate fluctuations. The
counterpart financing is not divided by Government of India and State governments, since the Borrower, Government of India, on-lent
the IDA funds to the State Governments on soft terms.




                                                                 27

Annex 2. Outputs by Component
2.1.     This annex presents the detailed numeric outputs of the project on a state level basis.
Further, it shows the available indicators for comparable non-participating states, which is
indicative of what is likely to have happened in the absence of the project.16

2.2.     The availability of output and impact data is high. All indicators proposed in the PAD
were tracked during project preparation with the exception of two overall project impact
indicators, which were defined for this report. Further, all indicators are available on the state
level. The actual value for the indicators reported in this report is end of school year 2006/07
unless indicated otherwise. Total project value for participating states/UT is calculated as the sum
of state outcomes when appropriate and in the other cases as the un-weighted average across
states/UT. Improvement over baseline value is computed as the percentage changes from baseline
to actual for the states that reported a baseline value. Most indicators contained baseline value at
approval. A moderate share of the indictors was defined as "additional", whereby the baseline
value by default became zero. For the remaining indicators, baseline values were included in the
PAD, or baselines were established during the first two years of implementation.17 Further, the
PAD set out clear and ambitious targets.

2.3.     The quality of the data is reasonable. Review missions and work between NPIU and the
states focused extensively on collecting output and impact data.18 However, data relies on self-
reporting from the states, and there could in principle be deviations between project reports and
reports to official statistical yearbooks. For future projects, the monitoring and evaluation system
could, if possible, build upon official state reporting to the AICTE, although this may decelerate
reporting of project indicators. Further, not all supported polytechnics have detailed management
information systems capturing all aspects of the learning processes (such as use of learning
resources) or tracking students' progress across years. Hence, indicators regarding time for
completion and drop out are for some polytechnics indicative. Also, some of the indicators rely
on samples of students, principally labor market outcomes which imply a certain level of
statistical uncertainty. Nevertheless, around half of the polytechnics conducted quality labor
market surveys with acceptable sample-sizes and response rates from graduates. The seat capacity
and enrolment data are in line with official data. Financial, budget and per student-cost
information have also been substantiated with background documentation for the majority of the
states.




16Annex 10 Beyond the Numbers presents five personal experiences out of thousands of how the project
offered an opportunity to improve the livelihood of beneficiaries.

17Two states: Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim did not have fully operational polytechnics prior to this
project. Hence, no baseline value is reported. Further, for a few indicators, states reported different baseline
value than the early mission documents or the PAD. In these instances, the original baseline value from the
PAD was maintained.

18Comments from State teams received through the ICR survey, Annex 5, suggested that less time is
devoted to discussion of M&E indicators during joint review missions in order to spend more time on
educational aspects of the project.




                                                     28

                                                Project Outcome and Impact Indicators
                                                                                      % of polytechnics graduates employed/self-
    Time taken for completing the polytechnic diploma                                    employed within one year of graduation
                                                                                                            Actual (b)
                                                                      % of                                  among                         % of
                                                       % of           improvem                              graduates                     target
                        Base                           target         ent from    Base-        Actual       on labor                      achieve        State
State/UT                -line     Actual    Target     achieved       baseline    line         (a)          market            Target      d               /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands          3.6        3.2       3.4        106%            11%         8%         78%            100%             65%          120%         A&N

Arunachal Pradesh        NA         3.4       3.4        100%                        NA         46%            100%             65%          71%          AP

Jammu & Kashmir          3.2        3.2       3.4        106%            0%         30%         45%             45%             65%          69%          J&K

Meghalaya                NA         3.4       3.4        100%                       40%         64%             71%             65%          98%         MEG

Mizoram                  NA         3.5       3.4         97%                        NA         78%             84%             65%          120%         MIZ

Nagaland                 3.2        3.5       3.4         97%            -9%        50%         70%            100%             65%          108%         NAG

Sikkim                   NA         3.3       3.4        103%                        NA         88%             92%             65%          135%         SIK

Tripura                  NA         3.1       3.4        109%                       60%         70%             70%             65%          108%         TRI

Total Project            3.3        3.3       3.4        102%            0%         38%         67%             83%             65%          104%         ALL
Note: Not all polytechnics have an information system capable of tracking         Note: the source is NPIU reporting based on state reporting from
students across years. Thus in certain instances, the above indicator is          tracer studies. For J&K, the source is the State ICR (45%). There
sampled information. Baseline data was not reported in the PAD. Baseline          are minor (single-digit) deviations from the employment rates
values were supplied by the states in 2001. Meghalaya, Mizoram, and               calculated by the ICR team based on the state tracer studies.
Tripura reported 3.0, a perfect completion rate, which is not likely to have      Based on the tracer studies, the average employment rate would
reflected the prevailing situation. Therefore, those values are not reported.     increase to 70%. For J&K the state ICR is the source.
                                                                                  Employment rate (a) counts graduates in further studies as not
                                                                                  employed. Rate (b) excludes these graduates and is calculated
                                                                                  directly from the state specific tracer studies. The PAD indicator
                                                                                  focuses on employment only in the field of training of the
                                                                                  graduates, while most of the tracer studies measures
                                                                                  employment in all fields. Improvement over baseline was: 875%
                                                                                  for A&N, 50% for J&K, 60% for Meghalaya, 40% for Nagaland,
                                                                                  17% for Tripura, and across states 208%. Baseline is from 2002.


 Effectiveness and stage of implementation of proposed
    systemic reform in technical education in each state                              Nature and level of interaction with Industry
                                                                                                                                      % of
                                                                                                                                      target            State
State/UT                Baseline      Actual           Target                     Baseline            Actual           Target         achieved           /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands                           219%                                           -                432%           100%           432%            A&N

Arunachal Pradesh                         256%                                           -                 46%           100%            46%             AP

Jammu & Kashmir                           139%                                           -                200%           100%           200%            J&K

Meghalaya                                 107%                                           -                 92%           100%            92%            MEG

Mizoram                                   105%                                           -                 90%           100%            90%            MIZ

Nagaland                                  94%                                            -                 34%           100%            34%            NAG

Sikkim                                    89%                                            -                 70%           100%            70%             SIK

Tripura                                   121%                                           -                 47%           100%            47%             TRI

Total Project                             132%                                           -                 92%           100%            92%            ALL
Note: The project promoted several inter-related policies that in its entirety    Note: This indicator is interpreted as the average of the
amounts to a systemic reform. Those policies were: (i) Autonomy, (ii)             achievement of targets in the following nine sub-component
creation of state boards of higher education to professionalize the               indicators for involvement of industry: students benefiting: (i) from
management of technical education, (iii) flexible course provision (measured      industrial training, (ii) industrial visits, (iii) expert lectures, (iv)
by credit-based entry systems), (vi) interaction with industry (measured by       campus interview, (vi) participation in industrial projects, and
composite indicator created below), and (v) increased generation of revenue.      Industry contribution to (vii) curriculum reform, (viii) student
This indicator was constructed at project completion.                             assessment, and (ix) to institutional governance. This indicator
                                                                                  was constructed at project completion.




                                                                             29

     % of women students enrolled in formal programs                                                 % of SC/ST students

                                                                       % of
                                                                       improve                                                 % of
                                                                       ment                                       % of         improvem
                        Base                           % of target     from       Base                            target       ent from    State
State/UT                line     Actual     Target     achieved        baseline   line     Actual      Target     achieved     baseline    /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands          38.5     45.5        45          101%            18%       3%        2%         11%         18%          -33%     A&N
Arunachal Pradesh         NA       37         45          82%                       NA       74%         70%         106%                  AP
Jammu & Kashmir           29       41         56          73%             41%       NA       14%         7%          200%                  J&K
Meghalaya                 15       23         29          79%             53%      95%       99%         95%         104%          4%      MEG
Mizoram                   50       60         68          88%             20%      95%       92%         95%         97%          -3%      MIZ
Nagaland                  40       37         47          79%             -8%      98%      100%         98%         102%          2%      NAG
Sikkim                    NA      14.3        40          36%                       NA       43%         50%         86%                   SIK
Tripura                   25       47         40          118%            88%      47%       47%         47%         100%          0%      TRI

Total Project            30.0     38.4       47.6         81%             28%      68%       59%         59%         100%          1%      ALL
Note: The improvement from baseline of 28% was achieved in the states/UT          Note: The improvement from baseline of 1% was achieved in the
that reported a baseline value. Total project value for participating states/UT   states that reported a baseline value
is calculated as the share of women students in project states/UT of the
student body. The enrolment of women students increased from 487 pre-
project to 3,038 at the end of the project. That is a 524 % increase in the
absolute number of women students.



                   % of students from rural areas                                    % of cost recovery through internal revenue
                                                                                                           generation
                                                                       % of
                                                                       improve                                                 % of
                                                                       ment                                       % of         improvem
                        Base                           % of target     from       Base                            target       ent from    State
State/UT                line     Actual     Target     achieved        baseline   line     Actual      Target     achieved     baseline    /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands           13       60         25          240%           362%     2.8%       5.4%                                92.8%     A&N

Arunachal Pradesh         NA       100        70          143%                      NA       1.5%                                          AP

Jammu & Kashmir           60       50         45          111%           -17%     0.0%       0.0%                                          J&K

Meghalaya                 6        45         70          64%            650%     0.0%       3.9%                                          MEG

Mizoram                   55       70         75          93%             27%     0.5%       1.8%                                284.6%    MIZ

Nagaland                  53       100        80          125%            89%     0.2%       0.5%                                146.9%    NAG

Sikkim                    NA       60         40          150%                      NA      46.9%                                          SIK

Tripura                   50       48         60          80%             -4%     1.4%       1.3%                                -10.8%    TRI

Total Project            39.5     66.6       58.1         115%            57%       5%        8%                                 68.9%     ALL
Note: The improvement from baseline of 57% was achieved in the states that        Note: Targets for IRG were set in absolute Rs. Amounts as
reported a baseline value                                                         shown in the table below for IRG in component 3.




                                                                             30

                             Enrolled students
  (Increase in number of student places and demand for the
                                     same)

                                                                          % of
                                                                          improve
                                                                          ment
                         Base                           % of target       from
State/UT                 line     Actual      Target    achieved          baseline
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands           291       624        670          93%             114%

Arunachal Pradesh          0        364        399          91%

Jammu & Kashmir           419      3313        2,537        131%            691%

Meghalaya                 298       993        1,064        93%             233%

Mizoram                   120       480        684          70%             300%

Nagaland                  165       620        770          81%             276%

Sikkim                     0        615        998          62%

Tripura                   330       910        608          150%            176%

Total Project            1,623     7919        7,728        102%            388%


Adjusted Project         1,623     8,233       7,728        107%            407%
Note: Target inferred from the targets of additional seats and seat utilization.
The source for actual enrolled students in J&K is the Govt. of J&K's
presentation at the 12th JRM in June 07, which included students from Leh
and Kargil. 10 (ten) of the new three-year diploma programs enrolled
students for the first time in 2004/05. Consequently, the current student
population does not include any third-year students for these programs,
although the capacity is available. This indicator projects the expected
student population if these programs had started a year earlier and thus
would have had third-year enrolled students. The aggregated yearly intake of
students in these 10 programs is 330 students, which at the expected
utilization rate of 95 % implies an additional student population of 314.




                                  Overview of State-wise performance achievement of targets

PDO                  Expansion       Access for disadvantaged                         Quality                   Economic needs              Efficiency
                                                                         % of       Labs     Teach/                 Indu.      Com-                 Cost
State        Sys.     New seats      Women        ST/SC     Rural       curri-     moder-    & Staff    Empl.       Inter-    munity     Compl.    reco- Average
 /UT      Reform                                                        culum       nized   Training     Rate      action    Service      Time      very
A&N        225%         141%         101%         18%       240%        100%       142%      106%       120%       432%       175%       106%      620%   194%
 AP        257%         107%          82%         106%      143%        100%       194%      99%         71%        57%        68%       100%      1087%  190%
J&K        147%         158%          73%         200%      111%        138%       133%      100%        69%       200%       365%       106%      159%   151%
MEG        124%         100%          79%         104%      64%         100%       100%      109%        98%        92%       344%       100%       63%   114%
 MIZ       112%          59%          88%         97%       93%         100%        94%      118%       120%        90%       291%        97%      112%   113%
NAG        108%         100%          79%         102%      125%        100%       108%      103%       108%        34%        86%        97%      135%   99%
 SIK        85%         111%          36%         86%       150%        92%        210%      81%        135%        70%       179%       103%       63%   108%
 TRI       146%         204%         118%         100%      80%         130%        94%      110%       108%        47%       507%       108%       17%   136%
ALL        127%         122%          81%         100%      115%        107%       122%      99%        104%        93%       253%       102%      121%   119%
               Note: The achievement of target should not be used to designate best performers or be interpreted as a ranking. State performance
               should also be judged against the ambitiousness of the targets set and improvement over baseline.




                                                                                 31

               Component 1: Developing/Expanding Capacity of Technician Education System


    Increased number of polytechnics: Number of New           Increased number of programs: Number of New
                       polytechnics                                        Diploma Programs
                                                  % of
                                                  improve                                     % of
                                                  ment                              % of      improvem
                  Base                % of target from       Base                   target    ent from   State
State/UT          line  Actual Target achieved    baseline   line   Actual Target   achieved  baseline   /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0      0     0                             0      4       4      100.0%              A&N

Arunachal Pradesh   0      1     1     100.0%                  NA     6       6      100.0%              AP

Jammu & Kashmir     0      2     0                             0      15      8      187.5%              J&K

Meghalaya           0      2     2     100.0%                  0      8       8      100.0%              MEG

Mizoram             0      0     0                             0      3       3      100.0%              MIZ

Nagaland            0      1     1     100.0%                  0      6       6      100.0%              NAG

Sikkim              0      2     2     100.0%                  NA     10     12       83.3%              SIK

Tripura             0      1     0                             0      8       5                          TRI

Total Project              9     6     150.0%                  0      60     52      115.4%              ALL



   Increased enrolment capacity: Additional Number of          Increased number of hostel places: Additional
                      Student Places                                       Hostel Places (Men)
                                                  % of
                                                  improve                                     % of
                                                  ment                              % of      improvem
                  Base                % of target from       Base                   target    ent from   State
State/UT          line  Actual Target achieved    baseline   line   Actual Target   achieved  baseline   /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0     338   240     141%                   0      42     42      100.0%              A&N
Arunachal Pradesh   0     450   420     107%                   NA     87    100       87.0%              AP
Jammu & Kashmir     0    1560   990     158%                   0      81     81      100.0%              J&K
Meghalaya           0     670   670     100%                   0     240    300       80.0%              MEG
Mizoram             0     160   270     59%                    NA    120    120      100.0%              MIZ
Nagaland            0     585   585     100%                   0      90     90      100.0%              NAG
Sikkim              0    1170   1050    111%                   NA    405    540       75.0%              SIK
Tripura             0     570   280     204%                   0      0       0                          TRI

Total Project       0    5503   4505    122%                   0     1065   1273      83.7%              ALL


   Increased number of hostel places: Additional Hostel               Number of Faculty Residences
                      Places (Women)
                                                  % of
                                                  improve                                     % of
                                                  ment                              % of      improvem
                  Base                % of target from       Base                   target    ent from   State
State/UT          line  Actual Target achieved    baseline   line   Actual Target   achieved  baseline   /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0     24     24    100.0%                  5      17     13      130.8%     240%     A&N
Arunachal Pradesh   0     63     60    105.0%                  NA     17     17      100.0%              AP
Jammu & Kashmir     0     520   448    116.1%                  12     37     45       82.2%     208%     J&K
Meghalaya           0     120   120    100.0%                  3      26     34       76.5%     767%     MEG
Mizoram             0     150   150    100.0%                  NA     24     25       96.0%              MIZ
Nagaland            0     180   195     92.3%                  18     28     44       63.6%     56%      NAG
Sikkim              0     195   260     75.0%                  NA     40     38      105.3%              SIK
Tripura             0      0     0         -                   12     12     12      100.0%      0%      TRI

Total Project       0    1252   1257    99.6%                  50    201    228       88.2%     302%     ALL




                                                      32

                                                                                 Increased number of programs for industry and
                     Number of Staff Residences                                 community: Continuing Education Beneficiaries
                                                                   % of
                                                                   improve                                                  % of
                                                                   ment                                       % of          improvem
                       Base                         % of target    from         Base                          target        ent from     State
State/UT               line     Actual    Target    achieved       baseline     line    Actual      Target    achieved      baseline      /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands          27        42       31         135.5%         56%        110     2923         150      1948.7%       2557%       A&N
Arunachal Pradesh        NA         8       10         80.0%                      na      117         300       39.0%                     AP
Jammu & Kashmir          2         18       20         90.0%         800%         na      614         285       215.4%                    J&K
Meghalaya                NA        32       45         71.1%                      na      365         300       121.7%                   MEG
Mizoram                  NA        24       24         100.0%                     an      171         100       171.0%                    MIZ
Nagaland                 13        33       31         106.5%        154%         10      170         640       26.6%        1600%       NAG
Sikkim                   NA        32       32         100.0%                     na      433         380       113.9%                    SIK
Tripura                  12        12       12         100.0%         0%          na      350         300       116.7%                    TRI

Total Project            54       201      205         98.0%         272%        120     5143         2455      209.5%       4186%        ALL


    Increased Use of Computers by Students and Staff:                                  Learning resources purchased/issued
 Establishment of a Computer center in each Polytechnic
                                                                   % of
                                                                   improve                                                  % of
                                                                   ment                                       % of          improvem
                       Base                         % of target    from         Base                          target        ent from     State
State/UT               line     Actual    Target    achieved       baseline     line    Actual      Target    achieved      baseline      /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands                   Yes      Yes          100%                      0      2,102        345        609%                    A&N

Arunachal Pradesh                 Yes      Yes          100%                      0      1,705        450        379%                     AP

Jammu & Kashmir                   Yes      Yes          100%                      0      6,562        6,900      95%                      J&K

Meghalaya                         Yes      Yes          100%                      0       475         794        60%                     MEG

Mizoram                           Yes      Yes          100%                      0      2,153        424        508%                     MIZ

Nagaland                          Yes      Yes          100%                      0       534         1,030      52%                     NAG

Sikkim                            Yes      Yes          100%                      0      1,708        347        492%                     SIK

Tripura                           Yes      Yes          100%                      0       318         375        85%                      TRI

Total Project                                          100.0%                     0      15,557     10,665       146%                     ALL
Note: this indicator was modified from average computer hours of use per        Note: Redefined from average Number of Learning Resources
week per student. Due to the complexity of credibly measuring hours used.       Issued/Student/Year. Learning resources are defined as
The indicator measures the establishment of the computer center for             transparencies, learning packages, Models, Lab manuals, Video
students. 20 Computer centers were established. The utilization of the          programs, and multi-media programs
computer centers/labs was investigated by the utilization study from 2006. It
found that the computer centers were extensively used. In most cases over
30 hours per week for formal teaching, not counting use for community
training programs.




                                                                        33

      Increased number of programs for industry and
      community: Community Program Beneficiaries
                                                 % of
                                                 improve
                                                 ment
                  Base               % of target from
State/UT          line Actual Target achieved    baseline
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands    155  1837   1050     175.0%    1085%

Arunachal Pradesh   0    389   570      68.2%

Jammu & Kashmir     0   6610   1810     365.2%

Meghalaya           0   3095   900      343.9%

Mizoram             0   1748   600      291.3%

Nagaland           116  998    1160     86.0%      760%

Sikkim              0   1074   600      179.0%

Tripura             0   2281   450      506.9%

Total Project      271  18032  7140     252.5%    6554%




                       Component 2: Enhancing Quality of Technician Education

                                                                 Establishment of new laboratories and
Upgraded laboratories and workshops: Number of Labs             workshops: Number of Labs & Workshops
                 & Workshops Modernized                                      Established
                                                 % of
                                                 improve                                    % of
                                                 ment                             % of      improvem
                  Base               % of target from       Base                  target    ent from  State
State/UT          line Actual Target achieved    baseline   line  Actual  Target  achieved  baseline  /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0    24     13      185%                  0      9       9      100%              A&N

Arunachal Pradesh   0     0     0                             0     31      16      194%               AP

Jammu & Kashmir     0    60     55      109%                  0     93      59      158%              J&K

Meghalaya           0    13     13      100%                  0     14      14      100%              MEG

Mizoram             0    16     18       89%                  0     19      19      100%              MIZ

Nagaland            0    19     19      100%                  0     14      12      117%              NAG

Sikkim              0     0     0                             0     21      10      210%              SIK

Tripura             0    11     9       122%                  0     20      30       67%              TRI

Total Project       0    143   127      113%                  0     221    169      131%              ALL




                                                     34

Labor market Relevant Curricula: % of Curricula Updated           Labor market Relevant Curricula: Number of
                     within last 5 years                                   New Curricula Developed
                                                    % of
                                                    improve                                      % of
                                                    ment                              % of       improvem
                  Base                  % of target from       Base                   target     ent from  State
State/UT          line  Actual   Target achieved    baseline   line  Actual  Target   achieved   baseline  /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0     100      100   100.0%                  0      4       4      100.0%              A&N
Arunachal Pradesh   0     100      100   100.0%                  0      6       6      100.0%              AP
Jammu & Kashmir     0     100      100   100.0%                  0      14      8      175.0%              J&K
Meghalaya           0     100      100   100.0%                  0      7       7      100.0%              MEG
Mizoram             0     100      100   100.0%                  0      3       3      100.0%              MIZ
Nagaland            0     100      100   100.0%                  0      6       6      100.0%              NAG
Sikkim              0     100      100   100.0%                  0      10     12       83.3%              SIK
Tripura             0     100      100   100.0%                  0      8       5      160.0%              TRI

Total Project       0     100      100   100.0%                  0      58     51      113.7%              ALL


Flexibility in Program Offering: Number of Programs with           Improved Staffing: % of existing and new
                         MPE &CS                                            Teaching Posts Filled
                                                    % of
                                                    improve                                      % of
                                                    ment                              % of       improvem
                  Base                  % of target from       Base                   target     ent from  State
State/UT          line  Actual   Target achieved    baseline   line  Actual  Target   achieved   baseline  /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0      6        6    100.0%                        87%     90%      96.7%              A&N

Arunachal Pradesh   0      6        6    100.0%                       100%     90%     111.1%              AP

Jammu & Kashmir     0     24       28     85.7%                        71%     90%      79.2%              J&K

Meghalaya           0     11       12     91.7%                       100%     90%     111.1%              MEG

Mizoram             0      8        8    100.0%                        86%     90%      95.2%              MIZ

Nagaland            0     10       10    100.0%                       100%     90%     111.1%              NAG

Sikkim              0     10       12     83.3%                        80%     90%      89.3%              SIK

Tripura             0      5        6     83.3%                        84%     90%      92.9%              TRI

Total Project       0     80       88     90.9%                        89%     90%       98%               ALL



    More Competent Teachers and Non-teaching Staff:               More Competent Teachers and Non-teaching

                 Number of Teachers Trained                        Staff: Number of Technical Support Staff
                                                                                   Trained
                                                    % of
                                                    improve                                      % of
                                                    ment                              % of       improvem
                  Base                  % of target from       Base                   target     ent from  State
State/UT          line  Actual   Target achieved    baseline   line  Actual  Target   achieved   baseline  /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands     0     42       45     93.3%                  0      72     61      118.0%              A&N
Arunachal Pradesh   0     31       30    103.3%                  0      20     21       95.2%              AP
Jammu & Kashmir     0     233      190   122.6%                  0     203     265      76.6%              J&K
Meghalaya           0     71       74     95.9%                  0      55     45      122.2%              MEG
Mizoram             0     42       48     87.5%                  0      37     25      148.0%              MIZ
Nagaland            0     53       53    100.0%                  0      40     38      105.3%              NAG
Sikkim              0     41       61     67.2%                  0      35     37       94.6%              SIK
Tripura             0     47       48     97.9%                  0      38     31      122.6%              TRI

Total Project       0     560      549   102.0%                  0     500     523      95.6%              ALL




                                                        35

Increased and effective interaction between industry and
        polytechnics: Number of students involved in
               collaborative efforts with industry
                                                                         % of
                                                                         improve
                                                                         ment
                       Base                            % of target       from
State/UT               line      Actual     Target     achieved          baseline
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands         216      1,825        620          501%             745%

Arunachal Pradesh         0       710       1,270           91%               -

Jammu & Kashmir         204      6,678      7,892           90%            3174%

Meghalaya               189      3,067      2,922          109%            1523%

Mizoram                 177      1,403      1,330          103%             693%

Nagaland                279       770       1,540           68%             176%

Sikkim                    0      1,985      1,820          124%               -

Tripura                   0      1,353      1,565           50%               -

Total Project          1,065     17,791     18,959          85%            1571%
Note: Collaborative efforts include industrial training, industrial visits, expert
lectures, campus interview, and participation in industry projects.


                          Component 3: Improved Efficiency of Technician Education System


                                                                                          Improved cost recovery: Internal Revenue
     Reduction in Student Drop-outs: Dropout Rate (%)                                             Generation (IRG) in million Rs.
                                                                         % of
                                                                         improve                                                     % of
                                                                         ment                                         % of           improvem
                       Base                            % of target       from        Base                             target         ent from      State
State/UT               line      Actual     Target     achieved          baseline    line     Actual      Target      achieved       baseline       /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands           6       2.5         3.0          120%             58%           0       17.4         2.8         620%                    A&N
Arunachal Pradesh        NA       6.0         5.0           83%                           0       18.3         1.7        1087%                     AP
Jammu & Kashmir          10       10.0        5.0           50%              0%           0       23.9        15.0         159%                     J&K
Meghalaya                10       4.0         3.0           75%             60%           0         1.8        2.8          63%                    MEG
Mizoram                   5       3.0         1.0           33%             40%           0         3.5        3.1         112%                     MIZ
Nagaland                  5       5.0         5.0          100%              0%           0         5.3        4.0         135%                    NAG
Sikkim                   NA       5.0         5.0          100%                           0       35.5        56.1          63%                     SIK
Tripura                   2       1.0         2.0          200%             50%           0         0.3        1.8          17%                     TRI

Total Project            6.3      4.6         3.6           79%             28%           0      105.9        87.3         121%                     ALL
                                                                                      Note: States differed markedly in targets for internal revenue
                                                                                      generated. The above indicator measures achievement
                                                                                      according to targets. However, if achievement of IRG was
                                                                                      assessed based on absolute amount generated, the State of
                                                                                      Sikkim would have achieved the highest revenue.




                                                                               36

     Improved management of Polytechnics: Number of                                       Improved management of Technician Education
                     Polytechnics with Autonomy                                           System: Time Taken To Publish Results (Weeks)
                                                                                                                               % of
                                                                                                                  % of         improvem
                         Base                               % of target                   Base                    target       ent from    State
State/UT                 line     Actual       Target       achieved                      line  Actual   Target   achieved     baseline    /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands            0%       100%        75%             133%                        NA      6       4         50%                  A&N

Arunachal Pradesh          0%       100%        100%            100%                        NA      4       4        100%                  AP

Jammu & Kashmir            0%       63%         50%             125%                        8       5       4         75%         38%      J&K

Meghalaya                  0%       88%         50%             175%                        8       3       4        120%         60%      MEG

Mizoram                    0%       50%         50%             100%                        8       3      3.5       114%         63%      MIZ

Nagaland                   0%       88%         50%             175%                        NA      4       4        100%                  NAG

Sikkim                     0%       75%         100%            75%                         NA      2       4        150%                  SIK

Tripura                    0%       63%         25%             250%                        8       7       4         25%         13%      TRI

Total Project              0%       78%         63%             125%                        8.0   4.3      3.9        91%         43%      ALL
Note: This indicator measures award of autonomy to the polytechnics from
state governments. Four areas of autonomy were defined at project
approval: Financial, academic, managerial, and administrative. Each type is
counted with an equal share of 25 percentage points. If polytechnics enjoy
partial autonomy within an area, a contribution of 12.5 percentage points is
added. The targets are converted from text in the detailed project description
in the PAD as follows: Full autonomy = 100%; High/Substantial degree =
75%; Significant = 50%; and modest = 25%.




                 Operationalization of MIS and FMS                                             % of student seats filled (utilization rate)
                                                                                                                               % of
                                                                                                                  % of         improvem
                         Base                               % of target                   Base                    target       ent from    State
State/UT                 line     Actual       Target       achieved                      line  Actual   Target   achieved     baseline    /UT
Andaman &
Nicobar Islands            0        100%        100%            100%                       63%    78%     95%         82%         24%      A&N

Arunachal Pradesh          0        75%         100%            75%                         NA    81%     95%         85%                  AP

Jammu & Kashmir            0        75%         100%            75%                        25%   102%     95%        108%        310%      J&K

Meghalaya                  0        75%         100%            75%                        66%    89%     95%         93%         34%      MEG

Mizoram                    0        75%         100%            75%                        27%    84%     95%         88%        214%      MIZ

Nagaland                   0        75%         100%            75%                        73%    91%     95%         96%         24%      NAG

Sikkim                     0        75%         100%            75%                         NA    53%     95%         55%                  SIK

Tripura                    0        75%         100%            75%                        92%    98%     95%        103%          7%      TRI

Total Project              0%       78%         100%            78%                        58%    84%     95%         89%         46%      ALL
Operationalization of a computer-based project and financial management system
was a requirement under the mandatory Loan Administration Change Initiate
(LACI) in Bank project approved from 1998 to 2001. This system was successfully
developed by external consultants, installed in all states, and all SPIUs received
training. In December 2001, the Bank made its guidelines for Project Financial
Management more flexible and dropped the requirement of a standardized, fully
integrated project management system. Given the downsides of the fully integrated
project system and its implementation difficulties, the project partners decided not to
implement the developed system in all project states. Only A&N islands fully used
the project management system.




                                                                                  37

                      Comparison of outcomes in project states/UT with outcomes in non-project states

                      2.4.                The figures below compare key project outcomes in project states with comparable
                      North-Eastern states that did not participate in the project (Manipur and Assam) and at the
                      national level. A similar comparison for other indicator is not possible due to unavailability of
                      data.


Figure 3 Enrolment of SC/ST students in Technician Education                                                                                 Figure 4 Expansion of Technician Education

                                                                                                                                             400
                    70                                                                                                                                                             Project
                                                                                                                                             350                                  states/UT
                    60
    TS/CS                                             51.0                                                                                   300                                    355

                    50                                                       Project                                       100)
                                                                            states/UT                     delol                              250
         s                           38.2                                                                                      03=
                                                                               58.9                            enr                                                182
          ent       40                                                                                            ts                         200
             udts                                                                                                                 2002/
                    30                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                             150                             Other NE
                 of                  21.4
                                                          Other NE                                                  udentS                          100                    states 102
                   %                                                                                                                    ndeI(
                    20                                     states                                                                            100
                                                            14.6                                                                                                         All India 91
                    10                                                                                                                        50
                                     13.6                  All India 7.1
                                                                                                                                               0
                    0
                                                                                                                                                   2003    2004     2005                 2007
                                     2003     2004   2005                      2007

Figure 5 Enrolment of women students in Technician Education

                                     45

                                     40

                       ne            35                                          Project
                         mow            27.2
                                     30                            30.2        states/UT
                                                                                  38.4
                                     25                            All India
                            dentsuts       20.3
                                     20                              22.4

                                    %                               Other NE
                                     15
                                                                   states 17.2
                                          16.2
                                     10

                                      5

                                      0
                                         2002   2003 2004     2005               2007




                       Note: Data for the national level and other North-Eastern States are the latest publicly available.
                       Source: AICTE




                                                                                         38

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


3.1.      The project assisted 21 Polytechnics and 8 states/UT in substantially improving
efficiency. Per student cost was reduced by 35 percent primarily through an increase in the
utilization from 40 percent to 92 percent. Internal efficiency was also improved by a small
decrease in repetition, although smaller improvement than targeted. External efficiency was
equally enhanced. Employment rates of graduates increased from 38 percent to 70 percent. The
economic and financial annex in the PAD presented internal efficiency, external efficiency
(employment prospects), a cost-benefit analysis, and state fiscal implications. This annex reviews
the pre-project economic analysis.19


Internal Efficiency
3.2.      The supported polytechnics made considerable gains in internal efficiency over the
lifetime of the project. Improvement in internal efficiency raises the returns from the project by
lowering the unit costs of producing a graduate, and vice-versa. The project aimed at strong
internal efficiency as indicated by high target values for internal efficiency indicators set in the
PAD.

3.3.      Average annual per student cost declined 35 percent in real terms. The cost of training
a student is a summary figure for estimating internal efficiency of any educational/training
institution. Institutions with lower average training costs are considered more efficient.
Importantly, this measure does not take into account quality of education. Total costs reflect
expenditure on quantity and quality dimensions of providing education and training (the size of
the student population, the size of the teaching force, materials, infrastructure, training of trainers
etc). A comparison of the pre-project, target, and end-of-project average training costs shows that
major cost savings took place in most states. On average across the states, student costs were
reduced from Rs. 32,100 to 20,900 (35 percent). This represents a 113 percent achievement of the
target. In fact, only in one state, Mizoram, did real costs increase (and this was only by 2 percent).
In other states, average per student costs was reduced, for example in J&K costs decreased from
Rs. 65,000 to 15,300 and 19,500 (77 percent improvement).

                                 Table 4 Average Training Cost Student/Year (Rs.)
State                      Pre-Project          Present             Present             Target          % of target           % of
                              Status         Status (2007            Status                               achieved       improvement
                                               Rupees)           (99-00 Rs)                                              over baseline
A&N Islands                   30,000            30,500              23,293              31,000             125%               22%
Arunachal Pradesh                na             29,600              22,606              28,000             119%
Jammu & Kashmir               65,000            20,000              15,274              20,000             124%               77%
Meghalaya                     26,206            30,000              22,911              34,000             133%               13%
Mizoram                       15,000            20,000              15,274              12,000              73%               -2%
Nagaland                      33,500            27,000              20,620              19,500              94%               38%
Sikkim                           na             38,000              29,021              24,000              79%
Tripura                       23,000            24,000              18,329              23,000             120%               20%
Total project
(average)                     32,118            27,388              20,916              23,938             113%               35%

Source: Third Technician Education Project, Review Report May-June 2007, National Project Implementation Unit, Government of
India
Note: Average training costs include recurrent costs only. Hence, it excludes capital costs. The deflator used is the Price Index by the
Reserve Bank of India.




19 The PAD economic analysis equally discussed the justification of public intervention, which will not be
revisited in this analysis, since it is briefly discussed in other sections of this report.




                                                                 39

3.4.     The main factor driving the cost savings were an increase from an average of 54
percent to 84 percent in the utilization of available seats. At the time of the inception of the
project, utilization rates varied considerably between states and were less than optimal for the
existing polytechnics in the project states. The ratio of enrolment to sanctioned number of seats
was a poor 54 percent on average, ranging from as low as 25 percent for Jammu & Kashmir and
27 percent for Mizoram to 92 percent for Tripura. Given that most training costs are fixed costs--
in particular for teacher and staff salaries--optimizing the use of the available seats is crucial for
efficiency. At the close of the project, the average enrolment rate for all project polytechnics
increased to 84 percent; and except for Sikkim (53 percent), the utilization rates exceed 80
percent in all project states/UT. The comparatively low rate in Sikkim is due to the recent
introduction of six new diploma courses, and there were therefore no third year students yet in
2006/07. The high cost-recovery could also play a high role. The rise in utilization rates were
driven by increased demand for technician education that emerged from improved infrastructure,
equipment, promotion, and public attention to the project. In this sense, the objectives of jointly
improving quality, efficiency, and access (expansion) were mutually reinforcing.

3.5.     Internal efficiencies took place through a reduction in the drop out and an increase in
the pass rate. The above indicator does not measure cost per graduate, which requires detailed
information regarding student flows through grades. However, cost per graduate is expected to
have improved further than suggested from the cost per student year, since drop-out rate
improved over the base-line. Drop-out was low to begin with; 6.3 percent across states with drop-
out rates varying from 2 percent in Tripura to 10 percent in Jammu & Kashmir and Meghalaya.
Therefore gaining any further reduction was bound to be difficult. At end-of-project, drop out was
reduced by 1.6 percentage point to 4.6 percent on average. The base-line pass-rates of students (at
first attempt) varied from 70-78 percent. At project closing, pass-rates had improved for all
project polytechnics, ranging from 80-95 percent. All state-wise indicators of seats filled, pass-
rates and drop-out rates are provided in Annex 2.

External Efficiency
3.6.     The project enhanced external economic benefit through improvement in the labor
market prospects of graduates of polytechnics. Table 5 provides employment rates (within one
year of graduation) and current average monthly wages.             20 As discussed in the main text 72
percent of graduates from the 05/06 batch of students found employment within one year of
graduation (Column (a)). The PAD target was 65 percent (127 percent achievement). Taking into
account the proportion of graduates that continued their studies at a higher level (mostly engineer
studies) the employment rate achieved was 83 percent (Column (b)).21 Hence, an unemployment
rate of 17 percent after one year of graduation in less developed economic states. This outcome
compares favorably with overall youth unemployment in India: 18 percent of graduates from
secondary education remain unemployed (0-4 years after graduation) and 25 percent for graduates
of higher education (also 0-4 years after graduation), World Bank (2007). However, there is still
room for improvement. For Jammu & Kashmir, the lower employment rate is presumably due to


20 The data in the table come from end tracer studies for graduates from 2005/06 conducted by each
participating state and polytechnic.

21 A diploma level technician education qualifies for entry into the second year of engineering degree at
most schools. Given the strong Indian labor market for engineers - 18 percent rate of return to higher
education in general, World Bank(2007), it is unsurprising that non-negligible share of 11 percent of
graduates choose to continue further education. This seems in particular to be the case in Arunachal
Pradesh, A&N Islands (where the Polytechnics administer several post-diploma programs) and Sikkim.




                                                    40

the long-running unsettled political situation, the absence of large-scale industry in the state, and
a lower overall female participation in the labor market.

3.7.       The main drivers of improved labor market outcomes seem to have been the set of
policies that increased linkages with the private sector, and the set of investments that
created new programs, improved equipment, updated curriculum, and trained faculty.
However, other factors such as a favorable economic environment are likely to have aided as well.
Sorting out empirically the impact of curriculum reform, equipment purchase, private sector
linkages, and the context in the labor markets, would be necessary to draw firm conclusions about
cause and impact. The project database contains a large set of indicators that through such a study
could be further mined to rigorously draw lessons. However, this extends beyond this report.


                     Table 5 Labor Market Outcomes for Graduates of Project Polytechnics
         State/Polytechnic         Graduating     Employment        Employment        Average      Average           Pre-
                                     Year              Rate              Rate          Wages        Wages          Project
                                                       (a)            excluding       (Current      (1999-       Estimated
                                                                      graduates        Rs. per       2000         Average
                                                                      pursuing         month)     Constant       Wages for
                                                                       further                      Rs.per          a 10%
                                                                      education                     month)          return
                                                                          (b)                                      (Rs. per
                                                                                                                  month)**
       Andaman & Nicobar
       Islands
       (Ambedkar & Second           2005-06           73.0%             100%           5,112         3,904          4,420

       PT)
       Arunachal Pradesh
       Rajiv Gandhi PT,             2005-06            54%              100%                                        3,990
       Itanagar
       Jammu & Kashmir
       (GPBC Jammu, and             2005-06           39%*#             45%*#                                       4,070
       GWP Srinagar)
       Meghalaya
       (Shillong, Tura and          2004-06            64%               71%              -             -
       Jowai Polytechnics)
       Mizoram
       Mizoram Polytechnic,         2005-06            90%              93.7%          4,193         3,202          4,420
       Lunglei

       Women's                      2005-06           73.7%             73.7%          6,219         4,750          5,150
       Polytechnic, Aizwal
       Nagaland
       Khelhoshe PT, Atoize         2004-06            95%              100%

       Government PT,               2004-06           100%              100%
       Kohima                                                                                                          -

       Institute of ICT             2004-06            85%              100%
       Sikkim
       ATTC, Bardang                2005-06           85.6%             93.7%          4,315         3,295          3,693

       CCCT, Chisopani              2005-06           76.9%             90.2%          4,102         3,133          3,376
       Tripura
       PT, Narsinghagarh            2005-06           70%*               70%*                                       3,334
Source: Tracer studies provided by states/UT. The above rates differ slightly from the NPIU reported rates in Annex 2. Only double
digit deviation is in the case of J&K, where the above is based on information from only two of the six polytechnics in that state.
*Source: State ICR; Average for two polytechnics. ** It is assumed that graduates of secondary education in the project states earn
                     #

Rs. 500 per month (also assumed in the PAD economic analysis). The actual national value in the National Labor Survey, NSS, from
2004-05 for a secondary education graduate is INR. 520 per month. Hence, the assumption made in the PAD was realistic.
Note: Column (a) indicates the share of employed graduates within one year of graduation. Column (b) presents the share of employed
graduates within one year of graduation out of all graduates on the labor market (excluding graduates that pursue further education).
Graduates from 2005-06 with the exception of Nagaland (where 2004/05 graduates were included with the graduates of 2005/06 as
well). Data from newly established Polytechnics (in Leh, J&K; and Kargil, J&K, and Women Polytechnic, Tripura) were not available.




                                                                41

Cost-Benefit Analysis

3.8.     A new simple cost-benefit analysis indicates that the project's internal rate of return
(IRR) was between 22 percent and 26 percent.

3.9.     It was not possible to use the same methodology as the original cost-benefit analysis
presented in the PAD due to the lack of description of the applied methodology. The analysis
was based on projections of recurrent costs, capital costs, and foregone earnings. Regrettably, this
analysis could not be updated since the PAD did not contain the necessary information regarding:
length of employment, employment rate, age-earning profiles over time, graduation rates and
calculation of capital costs. These should have been clearly described in the PAD. This is
especially important since annual per student costs declined markedly during the project. The last
column in Table 5 shows the PAD project estimates of required average monthly wages necessary
for a 10 percent return on project investment costs. The salaries of graduates (in real terms)
amount to 87 percent of the necessary salary for the project to have a 10 percent rate of return.
However, the rate of return increases substantially if the calculation took into account the end-of-
project actual costs and labor market outcomes. Therefore a new simple cost-benefit analysis was
undertaken.

3.10.    The applied IRR methodology is simple and relies upon the data available. As is
standard, the internal rate of return is defined as the interest rate that makes the net present value
of costs equal to the net present value of estimated benefits. The estimation is based on state
specific information from three of the eight states/UT (Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Mizoram
and Sikkim). The three states for which the tracer studies collected salary information. The
benefit is the life-time salary differential of the graduates of polytechnic education compared to
the expected salary of a graduate with secondary education for the students who received
technical education during the lifetime of the project (in the three project states). The IRR takes
into account the project costs (mostly capital costs), the recurrent costs, and indirect private costs
(e.g. foregone earnings from studying). In particular, the assumptions were:

         Direct private costs of education, such as cost of additional lodging, uniforms and study
         material, are zero.

         Pre-project capital costs are not included.

         Graduates of secondary education is both grade 10 and grade 12 graduates, which reflects
         the mixed entry level into polytechnic education.

         Wage growth of graduates of secondary education and graduates of polytechnics are
         identical and equal to the wage-growth observed in the 61st Round of the National
         Sample Survey 2004-05. This assumption is used to estimate the expected age-earnings
         profile over the expected 40 years of labor market participation (age 20-60). Based upon
         international experience, the wage of polytechnic graduates tends to increase more with
         experience than the wage of graduates of secondary education. However, there is not
         enough data to calculate the difference.

         Number of students for the three states was 6,278. The increase in students is assumed to
         be gradual over the project's five years of effectiveness. Consequently, the salary
         differential of future students is not included in the calculation. Similarly, the wage gain
         from beneficiaries of vocational education and community services are not included in
         the estimation.

         Students dropping out or not passing the final exam is assumed to receive a salary
         equivalent to graduates. The tracer studies does not contain salary information for these
         two relative small groups of beneficiaries.


                                                  42

         Other benefits such as inter-cohort externalities, higher firm productivity, higher
         absorption capacity of technology in local firms, better health, and gains in efficiency of
         public expenditure through improved practices and systems have not been included.

Further, the IRR is calculated for three levels of unemployment: 5 percent, 10 percent and 15
percent. Empirical evidence at the national level shows that 95 percent of graduates with
technical education find employment within a period of 5 years. This could be higher for
graduates of the supported polytechnics, since a higher share of project graduates were employed
6 months after graduation compared to national level data from earlier projects. The IRR is
computed under these three scenarios to assess robustness of results to different risk-scenarios.

3.11.    In the three scenarios, the IRR is more than twice the rate projected at appraisal (10
percent). However, given it is a simple cost-benefit analysis for only three of the eight states/UT,
the result should be interpreted as indicative.


Table 6 Internal Rate of Return
Assumed
Unemployment rate of                5%                        10%                     15%
graduates
IRR                                 26%                       24%                     22%



Financial Sustainability
3.12.    The sectoral impact of the project will depend on support  fiscal and political  for the
project polytechnics after project completion. There will have to be a steady flow of adequate
resources to each institution for salary of teachers and staff, learning resources, maintenance and
repair, faculty development, equipment replacements, and continuous curriculum updating.

3.13.    There are two main sources of fiscal support for the polytechnics: (a) the state budget;
and (b) revenue generated internally by the polytechnics.

3.14.    All the project states are special category states (except for the Union Territory of
Andaman & Nicobar Islands), which are almost entirely dependent on central transfers for both
plan and non-plan expenditures.22 For these states, combined central transfers (central taxed plus
grants) account for nearly 90 percent of total revenue receipts. This implies that to some extent
each state's funding of the polytechnics will depend on central assistance to them. Allocation of
the total education budget to different education sub-sectors, however, depends on the state
governments' decisions.

3.15.    It was agreed at project approval that annual recurrent costs arising at the end of the
project period will be borne by the state governments. Under the project, institutions have
increased their own internal revenue generation, which along with state funding will contribute to
regular funding for the institutions. However, only in the case of Sikkim does IRG exceed 10
percent of the annual budget.

3.16.    Table 7 below shows the internal revenue generation (IRG) by project states in 2001 and
2006. Although, IRG has increased both absolutely and relative to total budget. The size of
internal revenue is small relative to recurrent expenditures requirement with the notable exception
of Sikkim.



22The budget of Andaman & Nicobar Islands is part of the central government's budget.




                                                 43

               Table 7 The role of IRG in Financial Sustainability of Project Polytechnics
                         Cumulative                          Budget
                             IRG*                           Estimate
                         2001-2006                         (Recurring)                    Share of IRG
                          (in Million  IRG 2006-07            2006        Share of IRG   in total Budget
                          Rupees)        (in Million        (in Million  in total Budget      2001
                                          Rupees)           Rupees)           2006
           State                             (A)                (B)          (A) / (B)
      Andaman &
      Nicobar Islands       17.41            2.2               41.1           5.4%            2.8%

      Arunachal
      Pradesh                                0.6               41.7           1.5%               -
                            18.26
      Jammu &
      Kashmir               23.86           0.32                                                 -

      Meghalaya               1.8            1.8               46.2           3.9%               -

      Mizoram                 3.5            0.4               21.7           1.8%            0.5%

      Nagaland               5.32            1.1              205.3           0.5%            0.2%

      Sikkim                35.46           11.3               24.0          46.9%           31.4%

      Tripura                0.31            0.1                8.4           1.3%            1.4%
     Sources: (a) Third Technician Education Project, Review Report May-June 2007, National Project
Implementation Unit, Government of India; (b) State reports; *Cumulative IRG for all project polytechnics
                                                 in the state

3.17.    Given the relatively small share of IRG, the onus for sustainability will be on budget
expenditures. Gradually over the project period State governments have assumed the increasing
recurrent costs associated with the expansion of technician education. There is therefore no
transition in funding of recurrent costs from project funding to regular budget funding. Budgeted
resources to pay for salaries and minor maintenance will be forthcoming from the state; while
institutions will use their internal revenues mostly for development expenditure. However, larger
costs related to replacement and medium-term maintenance are not included in the budgets, as
discussed in the main text. For project sustainability, project states have drawn up strategic action
plans spanning the five years 2007-2012. If the developmental benefits of the project are to be
maintained, continued fiscal support to the polytechnics will be a pre-requisite. The respective
governments of the project states have asserted their continued commitment, which have been
confirmed by the budget allocations for fiscal year 2007/08.




                                                     44

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                        Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Shashi K. Shrivastava   Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD Task Team Leader
Sajitha Bashir          Sr. Economist                     SASHD HD Economist
Vandana Sipahimalani    Economist                         SASHD Economist

C. S. Jha               Consultant                        SASHD Technical Education
                                                                Specialist

S. A. A. Alvi           Consultant                        SASHD Implementation
                                                                Specialist
Rajiv Aggarwal          Consultant                        SASHD Architect
R. K. Dixit             Consultant                        SASHD Technical Education

Santhanam Krishnan      Sr. Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
                                                                Engineer
Rajat Narula            Sr. FM Specialist                 SARFM FM
Edward Heneveld         Education Team Leader             SASHD Team Leader
Lauritz Holm-Nielsen    Principal Education Specialist    HDNED Peer Reviewer
Richard Cambridge       Lead Specialist                   AFTQK Peer Reviewer
Y. Saran                Consultant  Technical Education  SASHD Technical Education
Sara Gonzalez Flavell   Senior Counsel                    LEGSA Legal issues
Supervision/ICR
Shashi K. Shrivastava   Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD Task Team Leader
Sajitha Bashir          Sr. Economist                     SASHD HD Economist

Santhanam Krishnan      Sr. Procurement Engineer          SARPS Procurement
                                                                Engineer
Rajiv Aggarwal          Consultant                        SASHD Architect

S. A. A. Alvi           Consultant                        SASHD Implementation
                                                                Specialist
Sushil Kumar Bahl       Sr. Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
Andreas Blom            Sr. Education Economist           SASHD Economist
Debabrata Chakraborti   Sr. Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
Mam Chand               Sr. Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
Meera Chatterjee        Sr. Social Development Specialist SASES Social Development
Renu Gupta              Program Assistant                 SASHD
Nalin Jena              Operations Officer                SASHD Co-TTL
Chandra Shekhar Jha     Consultant                        SASHD Technical Education
Tanuj Mathur            Sr. FM Specialist                 SARFM FM

Sangeeta Goyal          Education Economist               SASHD Economic analysis
                                                                and M&E (ICR)
Rajat Narula            Sr. FM Specialist                 SARFM FM




                                        45

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                            0.03
  FY99                                                            0.13
  FY00                                 40                       103.85
  FY01                                 13                        29.73
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:         53                       133.74
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                 23                        53.73
  FY02                                 26                        60.54
  FY03                                 16                        49.35
  FY04                                 20                        90.65
  FY05                                 18                        92.57
  FY06                                 21                        99.28
  FY07                                 19                       105.50
                        Total:        143                       551.62




                                    46

 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

 5.1.        Two surveys were carried out to gain insight into the design, implementation, and impact
 of the project. One set of surveys focused on retrieving feedback from the main beneficiaries of
 the project: the students. Another survey undertaken by the ICR team sought feedback from
 federal and state government officials.

 Beneficiary Survey of Beneficiaries
 5.2.        The Impact Study carried by four NITTTRs (National Institutes of Technical Teachers'
 Training and Research) surveyed beneficiaries from all seven states/UT. The following tables
 summarize the response from pass-out students (graduates), final year students, and faculty.


 Table 8 Perception of Pass Outs (Graduates)
                                                                        Fully  Partially Do Not    Not
                                                                        Agree  Agree     Agree at Applic
                                                                         %       %        all %   able %
Extent of utilization of:
Knowledge acquired during diploma program                                56      38         6       0
Practical Skills acquired during diploma program                         36      53        10       1
Planning and management skills                                           36      49        12       3
Problem solving ability                                                  48      35        10       7
Communication skills                                                     56      38         2       4
Ability to create and design                                             33      47        15       5
Interpersonal Relationships                                              69      24         6       1
Ability to work in Teams                                                 71      25         4       1
Time management                                                          68      19         6       7
Curriculum and Instructional Processes:
The course includes latest technical developments in the field           45      46         9
Course schedule was adhered to by teachers                               56      36         8
Laboratories and workshop experiments were conducted as per syllabus     63      33         4
Teacher's communication was effective                                    69      28         3
Audio visual aids were used in instruction                               38     34         28
Use of audio-visual aids helped in understanding the subject matter      46      29        25
Opportunities were given to ask questions and clarify doubts             66      29         5
Teachers possess adequate knowledge of subject matter                    65      30         5
Laboratory/workshop staff are proficient in their work                   63      28         9
Library is equipped with latest books                                    59      35         6
There were adequate number of subject related books                      43      48         9
Industry personnel were involved in instructional processes              35     35         30
Computer facility was adequate for independent learning and practice     59      24        17
Projects undertaken were live problems of industry                       46      37        17
Examinations were conducted as per schedule                              64      24        12
Results were declared on time                                            57      29        14




                                                             47

         Table 9 Perception of Final year students
                                                                                                Fully  Partially Do Not
                                                                                              Agree %  Agree      Agree
                                                                                                         %          at
                                                                                                                  all %
         The course includes latest technical developments in the field                         58       38         4
         Course schedule is adhered to by teachers                                              53       42         5
         Laboratories and workshop experiment are conducted as per syllabus                     71       24         5
         Teacher's communication is effective                                                   68       26         6
         Audio visual aids are used in instruction                                              41       34        25
         Use of audio-visual aids helped in understanding the subject matter                    50       22        28
         Opportunities are given to ask questions and clarify doubts                            80       17         3
         Teachers possess adequate knowledge of subject matter                                  59       32         9
         Laboratory/workshop staff are proficient in their work                                 53       39         8
         Library is equipped with latest books                                                  41       41        18
         There are adequate number of subject related books                                     33       52        15
         Industry personnel are involved in instructional processes                             26       34        40
         Computer facility is adequate for independent learning and practice                    54       32        14
         Projects undertaken are live problems of industry                                      33       38        29
         Examinations are conducted as per schedule                                             70       18        12
         Results are declared on time                                                           28       41        31
         The course includes latest technical developments in the field                         58       38         4
         Course schedule is adhered to by teachers                                              53       42         5


         Table 10 Perception of Faculty
Statement                                                                                                                         Stro
                                                                                                       Strong                 Dis ngly
                                                                                                       ly        Agr   Undeci agr disa
                                                                                                       Agree     ee    ded    ee  gree
Enhanced capacity has been able to provide equal opportunities of technical education to various
sections of society                                                                                    35        63    2      0   0
Newly established institutions have been able to cater to the needs of the local people                23        59    15     3   0
Curricula designed on multi-point entry and credit system enabled to cater to the individual needs of
students                                                                                               12        65    10     2   11
Tailor made courses could be offered by the institutions                                               22        61    10     6   1
The attitude of industry personnel towards polytechnic pass-outs have become more favourable           23        52    14     10  1
Industry readily offers assistance for institutional activities                                        12        49    18     21  0
Teachers are able to cater to individual needs of students through the use of learning resources
(print and non-print materials)                                                                        33        58    5      4   0
Teachers' task has become easy due to the availability of a large number of learning resources         34        55    3      8   0
Learning resources motivate students for learning                                                      45        50    2      3   0
Teachers are motivated to teach in congenial physical environment                                      25        64    7      3   1
Learning environment has become more conducive.                                                        26        64    7      3   0
Adequate opportunities for practice are provided to students for development of skills                 34        56    3      7   0
The institutions look much more cleaner than before                                                    43        46    6      3   2
As a result of staff development (greater justice with their profession) professionalism among
teachers has increased                                                                                 22        54    10     10  4
Teachers have started taking new initiatives to improve the quality of instruction                     29        59    8      3   1
Establishment of III cells have brought industry institute closer to each other                        10        54    27     6   3
Establishment of staff development cells led to realistic staff development plans                      12        53    17     12  6
Establishment of LRUCs have led to integration of media in teaching-learning                           24        60    12     3   1
Industry eagerly wait to organize campus interviews                                                    7         30    27     28  8
Autonomy has enabled the institutions to respond quickly to changing environment                       8         45    31     12  4
Greater professionalism in undertaking various activities have resulted on account of autonomy         7         45    33     10  5
The work culture has changed with improved facilities                                                  32        60    4      3   1
As a result of newly established structures at the directorate level, decisions are taken faster       10        32    33     18  7
Examination system has improved as a result of autonomy to the Board                                   6         55    19     15  5
Autonomous Board is able to declare results on time                                                    8         58    16     17  1
Available resources are now more judiciously utilized.                                                 16        66    10     7   1


         5.3.        The responses from graduates, final students and faculty are consistent and suggest: (i)
         Strong utilization and satisfaction with new equipment, laboratories, and learning material, (ii)
         curriculum, syllabus, course schedule are adhered too, (iii) quality, knowledge and effectiveness



                                                                       48

of teachers, laboratory staff, and teaching are adequate and satisfactory, (iv) Relation to industry
(interviews, industry involvement in teaching etc) is good, but requires efforts and can become
better.

5.4.       The NITTTRs equally surveyed employers in all states. Results are summarized as
follows: (i) Employers generally rate the graduates as possessing adequate technical knowledge,
good to excellent competencies in handling equipment and machinery, (ii) very satisfied with
personal/soft skills, including communication, punctuality, team work, ability and willingness to
learn, and management skills, (iii) In the state of Sikkim (the only state with results reported on
this question), 80-90 percent of employers reported a substantial improvement in the skills and
knowledge of the graduates, and (iv) employers suggest to further incorporate project related
teaching and field exposure.


Feedback Survey of Government and Institutions
5.5.       A second survey focused on feedback from the high level officials regarding the main
institutions involved in the project (federal and state government, The World Bank and
Consultants involved in the project. The feedback provides the involved institutions an
opportunity to assess impact of project, the risks to sustainability, and improve each institution's
performance. The ICR team asked feedback from MHRD, NPIU, State secretaries, Heads of
SPIUs, and Principals of the polytechnics (a total of 34 respondents). The survey was carried out
via the internet. Each respondent and answer was anonymous. The survey received an acceptable
response rate of 56 percent (19 responses out of 34), which implies that the results should be
reasonably representative.


Table 11 Results of Feedback Survey
Question
                                                                                                                   Average
                                                                                                               Rating on a
Overall impact (Please rate how much you agree with the following statements, 1 meaning you                 scale from one
strongly disagree, 10 meaning you strongly agree).                                                                   to ten
The project helped the polytechnics meet the specific economic needs of my state/UT                                     8.3
The project provided my state/UT with demanded technicians for economic development                                     8.8
The project increased access of women, ST/SC, minorities, and rural youth to technician education
and training                                                                                                            9.2
The project increased state/UT capacity to implement academic and policy reforms                                        8.3
The project increased supply of technician services to industry in my state/UT                                          8.9
The project improved quality of technician (polytechnic) education                                                      9.3
The project improved efficiency of technician education (in terms of unit costs, utilization, and drop out)             9.1
The project improved the quality of technician education                                                                9.3
The project improved the teaching of soft skills                                                                        8.8
The project improved the availability of equipment and learning resources                                               8.8
Please identify which one of the areas listed below you regard as the greatest        Greatest Impact       Second Greatest
impact of the project. Then please identify which one you regard as the                                     Impact
second greatest impact of the project.
Granting of autonomy and IRG policies                                                                 22%                  0
Expansion of capacity (seats)                                                                          6%               0%
Increased efficiency and higher placement rates                                                        0%              35%
Increased interest and demand for technician education                                                61%               6%
Increased enrolment of women, rural youth, and SC/ST                                                   0%              12%
Increased interaction with industry and society                                                        0%              24%
Upgrade of the equipment and learning resources                                                        6%              12%
Better faculty and staff through hires and training                                                    0%               0%
New programs and revised curricula                                                                     6%               0%
Political attention to technician education                                                            0%              12%
The project had no important impacts                                                                   0%               0%
                                                                                                                   Average
                                                                                                               Rating on a
Please rate on a 1 to 10 scale, the risk to sustainability of the project's achievements and                scale from one
impacts (1 being very high risk, 10 being very low risk).                                                            to ten



                                                            49

State governments will not adequately fund faculty and maintenance costs                                      6.7
The remaining civil works, if any, will not be completed                                                      8.6
Limited demand in the participating states/UT for graduates from technician education                         7.9
The government will not respect the increased autonomy of the polytechnics                                    7.4
The polytechnics will not make effective use of the increased autonomy                                        8.7
The polytechnics will not further develop in the future                                                       8.2
Programs and curricula will not be revised according to future labor market demands                           8.8
Institutions will not be able to generate sufficient IRG                                                      7.1

On a scale from 1 to 10, please rate how favorable your impression of the Joint Review Missions
were
Overall importance for successful implementation                                                              8.9
Advice on education planning and policymaking                                                                 8.7
Sharing of experiences and learning best practices                                                            9.1
Motivation for implementation                                                                                 9.3
Guidance on procedures and rules for implementation                                                           9.4
Planning and budgeting implementation                                                                         9.1
Participation of high level officials (secretaries and principal secretaries)                                 8.7

Please rate on a 1 to 10 scale, the work of the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) to
assist your state
Overall performance                                                                                           8.7
Provision of timely and adequate information                                                                  8.4
Responsiveness to inquiries                                                                                   8.6
Educational and academic advice for implementation                                                            9.0
Support for implementation in terms of procedures, rules and budgeting                                        8.8

Please rate on a 1 to ten scale the work of the Procurement consultants contracted to assist your
state
Overall performance                                                                                           6.4
Helpfulness in implementation from project initiation to mid-term review                                      5.9
Helpfulness in implementation after project mid-term                                                          6.3
Timeliness and responsiveness in service                                                                      6.1
The quality of work compared to the price                                                                     6.0

Please rate on a 1 to 10 scale the work of the Academic consultants contracted to assist your
state?
Overall performance                                                                                           7.9
Quality and relevance of educational and academic advice                                                      7.9
Helpfulness in implementation                                                                                 7.7
Timeliness and responsiveness in service                                                                      7.3
Quality of work compared to the price                                                                         7.6

                                                                                                   Satisfactory or
Please rate the quality of the available choice of consultants at project initiation?                  highly sat.
Quality of available choice of all consultants (procurement, academic and others)                           67%
Quality of available choice of Procurement consultants                                                      47%
Quality of available choice of Academic consultants                                                         80%
                                                                                                         Average
                                                                                                    Rating on a
Please rate on a 1 to 10 scale, the contribution of the States/UT government to the project (1    scale from one
being very unfavorable, 10 being very favorable).                                                          to ten
Overall facilitation of project implementation                                                                7.9
Careful monitoring of implementation                                                                          7.2
Approval and adherence to autonomy and IRG policies                                                           6.4
Timeliness of administrative decision for implementation of autonomy and IRG policies                         6.3
Creation of the necessary positions for the Polytechnics and SPIUs,                                           7.4
Timely and available budget funds                                                                             7.6
Approval of training of faculty and staff                                                                     8.6

Please rate on a 1 to 10 scale, the work of the World Bank in the project
Overall facilitation of project implementation                                                                8.5
Educational and academic support (Quality, relevance and timeliness)                                          7.9
Architectural and construction support (Quality, relevance and timeliness)                                    8.3
Support with procurement (Quality, relevance and timeliness)                                                  8.2
Support with financial management (Quality, relevance and timeliness)                                         8.6
Source: World Bank Technician Education III project Client Survey



                                                                50

5.6.        In addition, the survey sought feedback on the Bank team's performance from questions
drawn from the Bank's 2004 India Client Survey, which reflected the World Bank's work overall
in India. Although questions are exactly the same, there may not be full comparability, because
the Project Survey sought feedback from federal government, state governments, and academia,
while the all India survey included in addition to the three above a large share of respondents
from media (31 percent) and Civil Society (11 percent).


Table 12 World Bank Team Performance in Comparison to India Client Survey 2004
                                                                                       Rating in India Client
                                                                                             Survey 2004
Based upon your experience from this project, please rate how much you       This    Areas
agree with the following statements (1 meaning you strongly disagree, 10    project   with
meaning you strongly agree)                                                          recent
                                                                                     Bank       State      All
                                                                                     activity   govt.     India
The Bank worked efficiently                                                  9.2      7.11      7.23       6.8
The Bank helped to strengthen institutional capacity                         9.5      7.58      7.03       6.9
The Bank and partners in Government collaborated well together               9.1      6.7       6.77       6.6
Overall I liked work/interact with Bank Staff                                9.5      7.5       7.25       7.2
The World Bank treated clients and stakeholders with respect                 9.5      6.41      6.31       6.3
The Bank's procurement requirements made it difficult to work with the Bank
(low is good)                                                                5.1      5.33      5.17       5.2
The Bank played a useful role in reducing corruption, collusion and
nepotism in this project                                                     8.3      3.69      4.82       4.3
The Bank imposed reasonable conditions on its lending                        9.3      5.86      5.72       5.7

Please identify which one of the areas listed below you regard as the
greatest value brought to your state/UT by the World Bank
a. Providing loans to finance development projects                           33%      53%       53%       55%
b. Providing loans to promote policy reforms                                 0%       17%       16%       14%
c. Technical support (policy advice, training)                               60%      8%        15%       12%
d. The Bank's knowledge (studies and analyses)                               0%       5%         4%        5%
e. Convener/facilitator (e.g., Government, donor and civil society)          0%       0%         1%        5%
f. Donor coordination                                                        0%       3%         2%        4%
g. Ability to mobilize resources for development work                        0%       1%         3%        2%
h. Other                                                                     0%       4%         2%        2%
i. Ability to build implementation capacity                                  7%       7%         4%        1%
i. None of the above / the World Bank serves no useful purpose               0%       3%         1%        1%

Please identify which one you regard as the second greatest value
brought to your state by the World Bank
a. Providing loans to finance development projects                           13%      9%         7%       21%
b. Providing loans to promote policy reforms                                 13%      16%       22%       19%
c. Technical support (policy advice, training)                               13%      27%       19%       14%
d. The Bank's knowledge (studies and analyses)                               7%       9%        12%       13%
e. Convener/facilitator (e.g., Government, donor and civil society)          13%      5%         6%       12%
f. Donor coordination                                                        7%       4%         4%        9%
g. Ability to mobilize resources for development work                        13%      13%       18%        6%
h. Other                                                                     0%       13%                  4%
i. Ability to build implementation capacity                                  20%      3%        10%        1%
i. None of the above / the World Bank serves no useful purpose               0%       1%         0%        1%

Which one of the following do you identify as the Bank's single
greatest weakness in its work in this project?
Imposing technocratic solutions without regard to political realities        44%      29%       28%       24%
Not exploring alternate policy options                                       11%      22%       26%       21%
Too bureaucratic in its operational policies and procedures                  0%       22%       25%       20%
Staff too inaccessible                                                       11%      1%         2%       15%
Too small a player relative to India's economy                               22%      10%        9%       14%
Is arrogant in its approach                                                  0%       4%         4%        3%
Too influenced by the US                                                     11%      11%        8%        3%




                                                             51

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


6.1.    The Government and the Bank organized two workshops for the preparations of this
report. The first workshop in June, 2007, was organized as part of the 12th Joint Review Mission
with the participation of all state/UT governments. Further, this workshop involved interviews
with students, graduates, faculty, principals, and employers in three institutions in Sikkim and
Tripura. A second workshop was held in October, 2007 to discuss the state implementation and
results completion reports, and the draft Bank and Government implementation and results
completion reports.




                                                52

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR

A.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT

7.1.     The Third Technician Education Project, conceived during 1999 became effective in
January 2001. It was directed towards developing polytechnics in the States/Union Territory
(UT) of Andaman and Nicobar Islands (A & N), Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir (J & K),
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. The Project provided a special focus in
these States and UT towards capacity building of polytechnics, enabling them to enhance their
roles, improve their performance, and produce competent technician manpower.

7.2.     The targeted States and UT are remote and span the borders of the country. Most of these
areas possess a hilly terrain, are of comparatively low population density, with a predominantly
tribal populace. Access and communication channels with the country's mainland were weak in
the pre-Project period, though they have improved of late. The targeted States were unable to
fully utilize the opportunities and development scope emerging from the economic reforms
undertaken by the Government of India during the last few years of the Twentieth Century. One
major reason for this inability was the inadequate availability of relevant technical manpower,
which could be productive and could utilize the rich natural resources that abound in the Project
area. It was this reason that created a need for this Project.

7.3.     The Technician education infrastructure that existed in the targeted States / UT in 1999 -
2000 is shown in the Table given below:


States / UT                                  No. of Polytechnics            Annual Intake
Andaman & Nicobar (A & N) Islands                       2                         155
Arunachal Pradesh                                       0                          0
Jammu & Kashmir (J & K)                                 4                         560
Meghalaya                                               1                         150
Mizoram                                                 2                         150
Nagaland                                                2                         75
Sikkim                                                  0                          0
Tripura                                                 1                         120
                  Total                                12                        1210

7.4.     The average intake per Polytechnic in these States and UT was significantly lower than
the national average of 174 students (Reference: Annexure  G ISTE Handbook 2001). Courses
offered were conventional, the institutions were under-staffed, and their physical resources either
obsolete or inadequate. In the context of the development of these pockets of the country, the
polytechnics needed urgent and serious attention, which the conceived Project was designed to
provide.

7.5.     A significant number of benefits were expected from the Project to the targeted States
and UT. Among them were:

    Provide proper educational engagement and specialized preparation for employment for
    secondary school leavers and ensure that their talents are directed towards productive
    activities,
    Augment the earning capacity of unemployed youth and school dropouts through non-formal
    technical training,




                                                  53

    With the availability of ample and competent technical manpower, generate a climate
    conducive for investments by industry and business and for the establishment of
    entrepreneurial ventures,
    Accelerate the advent of new technologies and consequent benefits in terms of industrial
    products and productivity, and
    Use the technician pass outs to improve public services, networking among Polytechnics
    within the Project States and UT, and, increase efficiency and accelerate workflow in State
    and local administration.

7.6.    The direct beneficiaries from the Project were to be youth (both school pass outs,
unemployed school dropouts from rural and tribal areas), potential entrepreneurs, and prospective
investors, industrial and field workers, apart from the state administration. The empowerment of
youth was expected to benefit young women through improved gender equity and women
employment in technical vocations. In a similar manner, other sections of the disadvantaged
population were also expected to gain from the Project. Long-term benefits were anticipated in
terms of economic security for a significant proportion of the population.

7.7.    The Project was broadly categorized in three components:

Capacity Development/Expansion to be achieved by:

        Establishing six new co-educational polytechnics and a skills development center with
        courses in new and emerging technologies,
        Strengthening twelve existing polytechnics and introducing new programs, and
        enhancing intake,
        Introducing continuing education and non-formal training programs for industry and
        community, and
        Improving student and faculty housing facilities.

Quality Enhancement to be achieved by:
        Developing/revising curricula to meet current and future labor market needs as well as
        imparting entrepreneurial skills,
        Modernizing existing laboratories and workshops,
        Improving staffing and imparting need based faculty and staff training,
        Augmenting the variety and increasing utilization of learning resources and media,
        Adopting better teaching and learning practices, and
        Promoting interaction with industry and community.

Efficiency Improvement to be achieved by:
        Establishing/strengthening state boards/councils/directorates and other support units
        dealing with technician education to provide better planning, monitoring and guidance,
        Conducting research studies for systemic reforms,
        Instituting computer-based Project and financial management systems,
        Providing substantial academic, financial, managerial and administrative autonomy with
        accountability to Project Polytechnics,
        Introducing Training & Placement services for students,
        Networking of polytechnics with other institutions/organizations, and
        Enhancing state-level policy support for technician education.

7.8.    The Project design incorporated specific targets and indicators to profile the intentions
mentioned above into a measurable and observable frame. The indicators were drawn from the
experiences of two earlier Technician Education Projects. The indicators were used as




                                                 54

`achievement drivers' in Project implementation and as benchmarks in monitoring. The Annexure
- 1 depicts the targets and status of their achievements.

B.      ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Capacity Development/Expansion

Existing Polytechnics
7.9.    The infrastructure in all the 12 existing polytechnics was strengthened in all aspects of
component one i.e. Capacity Development/Expansion.

New Polytechnics
7.10.   During Project initiation, 6 new polytechnics, (one each in Arunachal Pradesh and
Nagaland and 2 each in Meghalaya and Sikkim) had been planned and approved. Subsequently,
on request, 3 more new polytechnics (2 in Jammu & Kashmir and 1 in Tripura) were added.
These 9 new polytechnics made access to technician education much easier to the local
population and established centers for the diffusion of technologies to all inhabited but
comparatively backward corners of the targeted States.

7.11.   All these new polytechnics have become functional and are admitting students on a
regular basis.

New Programs Introduced
7.12.   The original target for starting new courses was 52, 45 diploma and 7 post diploma.
During the Mid Term Review and subsequent period, due to poor response/necessity to meet
demand of local aspirations the target of new courses were revised to 60, 57 diploma and 3 post
diploma. The new post diploma courses started were Marine Engineering, Deck Cadet in the UT
of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Information Technology in Meghalaya. All the new courses
were designed to cater to both current technical manpower inadequacies and future needs related
to the proposed developments in the next two five-year Plans of the States and aligned to ongoing
technological advancements in the rest of the country.

7.13.   The new courses introduced included : Information Technology, Electronics & Hardware
Maintenance, Computer Science & Engineering, Tool & Die Making, Manufacturing Technology,
Automobile Engineering, Marine Engineering, Deck Cadet Course, Textile Design, Fashion
Technology, Food Technology, Wood Technology, Leather Technology, Instrumentation &
Control, Medical Electronics, Medical Laboratory Technology, Hotel Management & Catering
Technology, Travel & Tourism, Herbal Remedies & Cosmetology, most of which were new
technologies for the targeted area.

7.14.   The selection of courses was aligned to the specific functional and economic needs of the
States and UT. For example, Costume Design & Garment Technology and Textile Design courses
would assist the Handloom and Knitwear industries in Jammu & Kashmir and Meghalaya. With
the growth of tourism and the hospitality industry, many of the targeted States and UT needed
courses to man these industries. In general, the more popular choices related to Information
Technology, Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering and Computer Engineering, which
were vital for internal and external connectivity. Course relevance was a feature in the Project.

Sanctioned Intake and Enrolment
7.15.   A total of 5503 seats were created during the Project as compared to 3630 seats available
in the pre-Project period making the total seats available to 9133. The increase in seats, the
availability of emerging technology courses, the initiation of placement for employment activity,
the enhanced interest of industry in the academic processes of the polytechnics, and the improved
physical infrastructure resulted in an increase in public interest in Technician Education. The
early indicators of this impact were the gradual increase in the annual enrollment in polytechnics.



                                                  55

Enrolment in all States and UT has increased during the Project period to about 85% of the
sanctioned intake capacity. The enrolment of students increased from 419 during pre-project
stage to 3190 at the end of the Project in Jammu & Kashmir which is 98% of the sanctioned
strength which represents a remarkable achievement in the State. It is expected that, within the
next few years, as information about these developments gets diffused, student enrollment will
further increase to fill all sanctioned intake in the Project States and UT, and, probably, put
pressure on the state systems to enhance intake further.

7.16.    Enrolment of students from socially disadvantaged groups also registered a fairly steep
increase. The percentage of women enrolment rose steeply in all States, and in some cases even
up to 60% of the coed polytechnic intake (Mizoram). Tripura, in the course of the Project, with
due approval of target revisions, established an exclusive polytechnic for women. This constituted
a significant impact factor for the Project. The enrolment of women increased from 31.5% (pre-
project) to 38.4% at end of Project. In terms of numbers of women students, the enhancement
was from 488 to 2988. The UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Tripura have achieved their
Project targets. The promising outlook Projected by the polytechnics and government policy
initiatives acted as drivers for this achievement.

7.17.    Enrolment of SC/ST students registered considerable increases in all Project areas, except
in the UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, where the targets in any case was low, due to the
incidence of a migrant population from the mainland and the scattered and abnormally backward
nature of most of the islands. All other States provided positive indicators of student enrolment,
even to the extent of exceeding Project targets. The States of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and
Nagaland have exceeded their targets.

7.18.    Wide publicity of courses through local newspapers, local news bulletin, Polytechnic
websites and campaign in local schools including outside the State as in Sikkim, local cable
network, brochures etc. were the contributing factors for increase in the enrolment including that
of women.

7.19.    The predominant rural and hilly locations of the Project territory supported access to rural
students to the Project Institutions. Construction of hostels, providing sufficient seats for men and
women, encouraged the enrolment of students as in the case of other categories of disadvantaged
students. Achievement exceeded targets in the States/UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands,
Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Nagaland and Sikkim.

Continuing Education and Non-formal Training Programs for Industry and Community
7.20.    New cells to promote Continuing Education, Industry Institute and Community
Interaction were established in each Project Polytechnic. These cells were provided with adequate
resources to fulfill role expectations and targets. The Project Polytechnics have offered 63 long
term and 1257 short term programmes benefiting 5143 persons from industry and 18032
community members excluding beneficiaries from the Community Polytechnic scheme. All
States/UT have exceeded the target for offering number of Continuing Education Programmes.

Improving student and faculty housing facilities
7.21.    During the Project, residential facilities for about 1065 men students and 1252 women
students were created in the targeted polytechnics. This acted as a feature of attraction for
students from a poor background and from distant locations. This probably acted as a reason for
the enhanced women enrollment. A total of 298 additional faculty and staff residences have been
created in the polytechnics.

Quality Enhancement

Modernizing existing laboratories and workshops



                                                  56

7.22.    143 existing laboratories & workshops were modernized and 221 new laboratories &
workshops setup in Project Polytechnics. The Project target was exceeded on this issue. All the
procured equipments were curriculum relevant. The States and UT setup maintenance cells in
each of the 21 existing Polytechnics to ensure that most equipment received preventive and
corrective maintenance care within the polytechnic itself.

7.23.    Twenty new Computer Centers were established. Requisite software and peripherals were
also acquired. The drive for making all students computer proficient was a key impact factor in
this Project and this was achieved through modernized curricula and improved computing
facilities. Improved computer facilities also motivated faculty members to use computers as an
aid to media development and student instruction.

7.24.    Internet facilities were introduced in all Project Polytechnics and helped enhance their
connectivity with leading institutions in the country. Student access to technical information
increased with easy access to the Internet.

Developing/revising curricula
7.25.    Each State established mechanisms to revise and develop curricula. The four NITTTRs
and NTTF associated with the polytechnics, and the network institutions provided guidance in
curricula development and subsequent implementation.

7.26.    The diploma courses in the existing 12 polytechnics in the Project States and UT at the
start of the Project were of the conventional or core type and were more or less a duplication of
courses existing in other States at the pre-Project stage. All existing curricula were revised and
curricula for new courses designed with the assistance of consultants (the four NITTTRs and
NTTF networked or partnership institutions). The UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands obtained
strong support from Maritime Training Institute, Mumbai for 2 years and later from Indian
Institute of Port Management, Kolkata for their Marine Engineering courses. In the revision and
design of curricula, involvement of industry was ensured. Learning experiences to develop skills
needed by technicians to perform in the shop floor or field were included in curricula. Soft and
general skills like communication, entrepreneurship and managing people at work also found a
place in curricula.

7.27.    An important innovation in course reform was the introduction of course flexibility
through Multi Point Entry and Credit System (MPE&CS). This reform promotes student learning
at his/her own pace and the choice of a variety of specialization options. Further, the exam system
becomes more valid and reliable since it would be credit based rather than marks based. Most of
the polytechnic courses (80) were reframed to incorporate this reform, with the assistance of the
associated four NITTTRs and NTTF.


Improving staffing and imparting need based faculty and staff training
7.28.    The existing faculty vacancies during the pre-project stage were 348. Out of this, 322
(93%) were filled by the end of the Project. Against a target of 354 key additional faculty
positions, 252 (71%) were filled. Steps have been taken by the Project States/UT to fill up the
remaining posts. The faculty student ratio was 1:13.6 (Refer Annexure 5 - Fig. 2). 33% of the
total faculty recruited (existing and new) were women.

7.29.    Out of 652 staff sanctioned, 433 were filled (66%). Against a target of 408, key
additional staff positions, 238 (58%) staff position were filled. 38% of the staff recruited for
existing and new vacancies was women.

7.30.    To help faculty development Training Need Assessment (TNA) workshops were
conducted for all Project States and UT by the four NITTTRs and NTTF associated with them.
The TNA provided a basis for the design and implementation of faculty and staff development. In



                                                57

addition, the NPIU with technical assistance from World Bank conducted a number of workshops
for Project planning, budgeting, reporting, financial management, and other key procedures.

7.31.    The Project was expected to support training of all (550) faculty during the Project period
(at an average of 4 weeks per year) through local and foreign training/fellowships. Teacher
training in the areas of curriculum development, education technology, instructional resources
design and technological content updating of almost all teachers was to be carried out with the
assistance of NITTTRs and NTTF and other agencies selected by the States. Some 90 teachers
and officials were proposed to be trained abroad to increase their competence in planning,
organizing and managing the system. About 250 teachers were expected to be trained in Indian
industries in new technology areas for making instructional processes more relevant and
increasing industry-institution interaction. The Project also supported the training of about 500
laboratory and workshop staff.

7.32.    560 (new and existing) faculty members were trained for a total period of 1955 person
months against a target of 573 and 2777 respectively. Faculty training was primarily meant to
develop skills related to classroom and laboratory instruction, development of institutional and
learning resources, management of institutions, practices to promote interaction with industry and
community and on Project management and related elements. The development programs and
workshops were either in-house or at State headquarters or in suitable locations out side the State.

7.33.    In addition 4 local study tours were conducted within the country to expose the faculty to
the best teaching practices and advance laboratories & workshops facilities. Study tour for 14
Senior Administrators was organized in April 2003 to Germany. A Fellowship program for 39
participants in Germany was also organized.

7.34.    500 staff was trained for a period of 631 person months against a target of 596 persons
and 1463 person months.

Augmenting the variety and increasing utilization of learning resources and media
7.35.    The polytechnics increased their stock of the Learning Resources (LRs) through two
initiatives. The first was to procure readymade LRs like multimedia/CAI packages, OHP
transparencies, learning packages, models, laboratory manuals and video programs from the
NITTTRs, NTTF, other leading institutions and private sources. The second and more
challenging initiative was to develop them in-house after acquiring skills to do so. Teachers were
motivated to use media extensively. 2430 learning packages, 826 models, 889 lab manuals, 1889
video programmes, 1606 multi media packages were procured and put to use. In library, books
are adequate as per AICTE norms in all Project Polytechnics. The result was that the quality of
instruction improved to a large extent in the Project Polytechnics, as reported in the Impact Study.

Adopting better teaching and learning practices
7.36.    The faculty development programmes enabled Project institutions to utilize LRs
effectively in the classroom and laboratory. In fact, the learning methods employed in the
institutions became wide reaching. A practice requiring considerable student endeavor was
Project work, which provided opportunities for students to develop practical and problem solving
skills. One more interesting development was to motivate students to use the Internet as a
multidimensional LR. This practice became fairly universal among students in the Project
Polytechnics. The use of modern methods and learning resources like audio visual aids, manuals,
models, video programmes etc. improved the teaching learning process substantially.

7.37.    The net impact of these measures can be gauged by the enhancement in enrolment, the
increase in pass rate and employability of the pass outs. Student learning did benefit in all
respects through the adoption of better practices in teaching and learning.




                                                58

7.38.   Average pass rate in first attempt has improved for all States/UT and averages 88%
towards the end of the Project period, while student drop out rate has declined in almost all States.

Promoting interaction with industry and community and networking with leading institutions
in other States
7.39.   In spite of the very few industries in the neighborhood of institutions, interaction with
industry was promoted through innovative models. One major model involved using the network
with other resource institutions to benefit academically from industry. To illustrate, the UT of
Andaman & Nicobar Islands had networked with 3 institutions in Maharashtra including
Maritime Training Institute in Mumbai. Arunachal Pradesh established strong links with similar
discipline groups in North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology (NERIST) at
Itanagar. Mizoram networked with institutes in Maharashtra for developing Communication
Technology programs. Meghalaya established links with Industrial Development Corporation,
private horticulture and other industrial estates in the State. Nagaland and Tripura sought
assistance from National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kolkata for the courses run by them.
Nettur Technical Training Foundation (NTTF), Bangalore in addition to assisting Sikkim also
contributed in running specific programmes and visits for other Project Polytechnics. MOUs with
these partners enhanced industrial access in nearby regions for Project Polytechnics and also
enabled useful faculty exchanges. Benefits to Project Polytechnics occurred in terms of student
training and Projects, exposure to industrial practices, availability of industrial experts for teacher
and faculty and staff development. Most Polytechnics have made industrial training compulsory
for students for a period of 4  6 weeks. The enduring gain from this partnership approach was in
the opportunities generated for student employment.

7.40.   Project Polytechnics, in the course of the Project, trained more than 18000 youth from the
community. This scale of achievement is remarkable and exceeds Project targets and expectations.
The main approach was through 1257 short-term programs (and a few long term programs) and
building strong and mutually supportive relationships with community. The intentions of the
programs were transfer of utilitarian rural technologies and consequent income generation,
entrepreneurial practices and measures to improve the availability of potable drinking water and
sanitation.

7.41.   In addition, the continuing education efforts resulted in relevant training of 5143
industrial workers. During Tsunami, the communication system in the UT of Andaman &
Nicobar Islands depended entirely on the V-sat system of the UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands
Polytechnics. The Polytechnic students/faculty members/staff provided the following services:

      The extension centers provided the essential communication services for rescue operations
      etc.,
      The communication system of the Islands was restored by the officials in record time,
      Completed the task of preparing the list of affected personnel through modern systems of
      photo identification etc., and
      Provided food and other essentials for nearly a month to the affected persons.

Efficiency Improvement

Establishing/strengthening state boards/councils/directorates and other support units
7.42.   Sikkim has established a State Board of Technical Education. Arunachal Pradesh created
a Technical section in the Directorate of Higher and Technical Education. Jammu & Kashmir,
Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland have strengthened their State Directorate of Technical
Education. The UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands affiliated its Polytechnics first to Delhi
Technical Education Board. The UT then got the affiliation to Maharashtra Technical Education
Board to have academic autonomy.         Subsequently, the UT has got de-affiliation from the


                                                 59

Maharashtra Technical Education Board and set up an independent society for the Polytechnics.
The Polytechnic in Tripura was affiliated to the West Bengal Technical Education Board. In
order to have better academic autonomy, the affiliation has now been shifted to Tripura
University.

Conducting research studies for systemic reforms
7.43.   Research Studies were conducted during the course of the Project period on various
issues related to strategy design, Project implementation and outcomes. Studies were conducted
to promote women participation, resource generation through transfer and greater societal
interaction, Continuing Education and Multi Point Entry and Credit System (MPE&CS). The
findings of these research studies were used by four NITTTRs, NTTF, State Governments and
NPIU to improve or introduce remedial measures and for new initiatives. A study on Utilization
of Resources created under the Project was conducted. A Study on the Assessment of Impact of
the Project was also conducted by the NITTTRs.

Instituting computer-based Project and financial management systems
7.44.   The managing of Project finances was computerized in all Project Polytechnics in the
course of the Project. Networking of each SPIU with Project Polytechnics enabled the
compilation of financial data to occur smoothly. SPIUs were strengthened with adequate
computer facilities and necessary software. Financial reporting to NPIU occurred on a regular
basis.

Providing substantial academic, financial, managerial and administrative autonomy with
accountability to Project Polytechnics
7.45.   All Project States/UT have granted autonomy to Project Polytechnics in varying degrees.
Autonomy in all dimensions has been granted to newly established polytechnics in Arunachal
Pradesh and Meghalaya. Full academic and managerial autonomy has been provided to
polytechnics in Andaman and Nicobar, Mizoram, Sikkim and Tripura and limited autonomy has
been provided to polytechnics of Jammu & Kashmir and Nagaland for financial and
administrative purposes. However, considering the novelty of this Project for the benefiting States
and UT, the grant of autonomy has to be acknowledged as a bold measure, since even developed
States were hesitant to take this step in the earlier Technician Education Projects.

Introducing Training & Placement services for students
7.46.   Student training in industry registered an increase during the Project due to additional
opportunities created by the networked / partner institutions of Project Polytechnics.

7.47.   Training and Placement services were managed through cells created in each Project
Polytechnic. Campus interviews were organized periodically and resulted in the selection of
about 1430 students in the year 2006-07. The training in entrepreneurship introduced in Project
Polytechnics acted as a stimulus for entrepreneurial ventures by pass outs.

7.48.   Employers have rated the knowledge, skills and attitudes possessed by the Project
Polytechnic graduates from very good to excellent. They desired that more field practice be
incorporated in courses to increase pass out quality to still higher levels. The average unit training
cost at the end of the Project amounted to Rs 27,400/- The monthly income of placed students
varied from a stipend of Rs. 2500 to a salary of Rs. 15000. This factor, along with the
enhancement in placement was a significant impact factor. The percentage of pass outs pursuing
higher studies has also improved in all States/UT.

Enhancing state-level policy support for technician education
7.49.   State policies for academic reforms, Project procurement and the appointment of
consultants, the strengthening of state units, creation of posts and recruitment of faculty and staff,
the new procedures and practices in financial management, and networking with other institutions



                                                   60

had to be either altered or formulated. Each state responded to this requirement readily in an
effort to support Project implementation.

IRG and Cost Recovery
7.50.    The Project Polytechnics generated internal revenue to the tune of Rs. 105.92 million
during the Project period through a large number of activities such as consultancy to industry,
continuing education, testing of materials, production-cum-training centers, LAN work, vehicle
maintenance, lending of institute resources, testing and calibration services, fee from students etc.
UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Mizoram, Nagaland
and Sikkim have exceeded their Project targets. Other States achieved close to targets.

Other Achievements

Space Availability and Utilization  Civil Works
7.51.    The civil works encompassed extensions to 12 existing polytechnics and construction of
9 new polytechnics, 147 staff quarters, 151 faculty houses, and hostels to create 1065 seats for
men and 1252 seats for women students. In addition, renovations and alterations were carried out
in several existing buildings. The estimation of space requirements was done as per AICTE
norms.

7.52.    The approximate unit construction cost in most States was estimated at Rs. 8000-10000
per square meter (about 20% higher than that in most States of India). In the UT of Andaman &
Nicobar Islands, the construction cost was expected to be still higher by about 20%. Construction
costs are high due to remote locations and difficult terrain of the States; need to transport most
construction materials from distant places and the limited number of fair weather days for
construction. All civil works were undertaken under NCB, with a procurement specialist agency
specially selected to design structures and oversee construction progress.

7.53.    Almost all the construction work was completed during the Project period with minor
delays. The delays can be attributed to inadequate availability of manpower for construction in
some locations, late arrival of materials and normal problems arising in the acquisition of land.
The clearance mechanism in some States also took its own time. The only partially completed
works are in the two new polytechnics in Jammu & Kashmir, and an auditorium in the UT of
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. These works were proposed and approved at very late stages during
the Project and were expected to spillover into the post Project period, as has happened. The
construction in these three cases is likely to be completed soon with the State funding. In any case,
the governments of the state and UT sought and obtained reimbursement only to the extent of
work done during the Project period.

7.54.    The average utilization factor at State level for classrooms was found to be around 0.5 for
different Project Polytechnics towards the end of the Project in a resource utilization study. This
by no means can be considered poor, since the actual students intake has yet to equal sanctioned
intake. The utilization factor is likely to rise to 0.7  0.75 within the next two or three years,
which is equal to the national norm (AICTE).

ISO 9001-2000 Certification
7.55.    Through the efforts of NPIU, an initiative to obtain ISO9001-2000 certification
commenced in most States in 2006. BR Ambedkar Polytechnic in Andaman & Nicobar Islands
was already ISO9001-2000 certified. NPIU arranged training at Andaman & Nicobar Islands for
other Project States and guidance was provided by the UT Polytechnics as well as NPIU. As a
result of the above efforts, 9 Polytechnics viz. Arunachal Pradesh (1), Mizoram (2), Sikkim (2),
Meghalaya (3), Nagaland (1) have obtained ISO 9001: 2000 Certification. The Polytechnics in
Jammu & Kashmir are in the final stages of obtaining ISO 9001: 2000 Certification and Tripura
has been requested to take up this activity. The passouts of the Polytechnics having ISO 9001:



                                                  61

2000 Certification have much to gain by way of recognition of the diploma nationally as well as
internationally.

Technical Vocational Education & Training (TVE&T)
7.56.   Though not initially envisaged, Vocational Education programmes were introduced as
pilot programmes of Government of India in the Project Polytechnics, which met with huge
success and found more takers than the Polytechnics could handle. The Vocational programmes
were offered during off hours using the Polytechnics facilities and resources and only limited out-
sourcing was done wherever it was found to be absolutely necessary. Most programmes offered
were within the expertise and structures available with the Polytechnics. The programmes were
modular and competency based and provided certificate at the end of each module. This activity
enhanced utilization of resources and provided much needed publicity to the Polytechnics. The
total number of persons trained under TVE&T programmes were 3047 through 58 courses
conducted during the Project period.

Full utilization of Project allocation
7.57.   Project allocation of 48.900 million SDRs has been fully utilized. Out of expenditure of
Rs 3830.40 million, World Bank has reimbursed Rs 3198.404 million, as per Project Agreement.

C.      IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISM
7.58.   The implementation mechanisms for the Project included a Polytechnic Project
Implementation Unit (PPIU) in each Project institution, a State Project Implementation Unit
(SPIU) for each of the beneficiary States and Union Territory, a national coordinating agency or
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) at New Delhi, and National Project Directorate
headed by Joint Secretary (T), in the Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Government of
India for making Project related decisions.

7.59.   The monitoring and evaluation mechanism were based on the successful models
developed during the two preceding Technician Education Projects. These included periodic
reviews by State Secretaries, the NPIU and the NPD. The bi-annual joint reviews with State
Secretaries, NPIU and SPIU officials, Polytechnic Principals, Government of India and World
Bank, covered all aspects of the Project with special focus on achievements in quality
components. The targets or benchmarks offered a platform for monitoring Project progress. These
reviews included visits to Project Polytechnics and interaction with the students, teachers,
employees and community representatives. Problems or bottlenecks identified during monitoring
and review were resolved at the polytechnic or state levels or through joint consultation with the
NPIU. Occasionally, the advice of the World Bank mission leaders and members were sought.
The mid  term review provided an opportunity for mid course evaluation and corrections as
needed. The Project also supported relevant research studies on various Project components. A
Utilization of Resources Analysis and Impact Study were also conducted in the closing stages of
the Project.

D.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.60.   All participating States/UT are keen to sustain the gains that have resulted from the
Project.   All State Governments/UT have formulated plans assuring budget provisions for
recurring expenditure for the next five years. State Governments/UT will also have to consider
long term visioning and perspective planning to build on the strengths and opportunities created
by this Project. Units, cells and mechanisms created during the Project will continue to function
in the future. With state and UT industrial and infrastructural development planned for the future
through special Government of India funding, the manpower generated by the Project
Polytechnics will prove to be a constructive resource. This would be the major driver for
sustainability.




                                                62

Possible Risks and Remedies
         The Internal Revenue Generated may not match the total financial requirements to sustain
         institutional operation and development and will only act as a supplement to continued
         state/UT funding for institutions,
         The Technical Vocational Education & Training scheme for benefiting school dropouts
         and other youth sections may have to be supported from funds available for other
         schemes and other government departments in the Project States/UT,
         Faculty/Staff development may not receive adequate impetus as was available during the
         Project period. The state will have to ensure continuing development through specific
         policy initiatives,
         Filling up of Faculty vacancies have to be pursued vigorously by States/UT, since faculty
         turnover (a national phenomenon) is likely,
         Networking among the Polytechnics across the States/UT and with institutions outside
         the targeted area will have to be strengthened to promote sharing of expertise and
         resources, and
         The adoption of new technologies suited to the requirements of the Project will be a
         pressure and opportunity to be anticipated by the Project States and UT. The experience
         from the Project will serve as an effective preparation for such reforms.

E.       BANK PERFORMANCE
7.61.    The Bank task team's contributions during Project conception, design, planning and
implementation and their visits to various sites and frequent interaction with central and state
government officials have significantly helped in making the Project implementation a success.

7.62.    Familiarity with the Indian psyche and the working conditions enabled the World Bank
Project team to handle implementation and progress impediments with great understanding and
adopt a supportive role. This accelerated clearance of various proposals and Project progress and
ensured target accomplishment.         Training of Project functionaries by Bank officials in
conjunction with the NPIU at critical junctures facilitated the States to follow Bank procedures.
In all, the excellent support provided by the Bank, its mission members, the architect and other
officials must be acknowledged.

F.       BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.63.    While some implementation difficulties were encountered in the initial stage, borrowers
learnt from experience during the Project and ensured outcomes and achievements. Governmental
support was much more forthcoming as the Project progressed. State level implementation
mechanism closely monitored the Project and worked for achieving targets. The NITTTRs, NTTF
and other partner organizations extended wide ranging support to academic components and
assisted Polytechnics in ensuring learning gains to students and institutional quality improvement.
They were also instrumental in enhancing faculty and staff capabilities. The National Project
Directorate guided and facilitated Project implementation of all components at all stages and
monitored Project events closely with NPIU.          It enabled the Project States in overcoming
obstacles which impeded developments. One major outcome in the Project was the teamwork
exhibited by borrowers at different levels and locations. Consensus about the strategies and
measures was visible right through the Project in all activities. Most of all, the commitment of
Polytechnic teachers towards ensuring Project success must be commended.

G.       ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
7.64.    Target achievement exceeded all expectations in the Project, considering the Project scale
and complexity. The benefit or impact achieved through the cluster of strategies, designed for the
Project were:




                                                  63

     Enhanced access to technician education through increased intakes, new courses and the
     establishment of new polytechnics,
     Enhanced quality and relevance in educational offerings,
     Computer proficiency development and regular use of the Internet by a majority of the
     students,
     Strengthened academically beneficial linkages with industries and field agencies,
     Need based and planned training to institutional faculty, staff and management to enlarge
     their competence and capabilities and enable them to perform new and innovative roles,
     Added academic and administrative space, faculty and staff residences, and improved
     student facilities like hostels, canteen, play grounds,
     Introduction of a system of institutional resource and facility maintenance,
     Decentralized decision making for the targeted polytechnics through the provision of
     enhanced autonomy in academic, administrative, financial and managerial areas, and the
     adoption of corresponding institutional accountability patterns,
     The early advent of institutional sustainability and increased internal efficiency by adopting
     various measures like continuing education for both unemployed and employed youth and
     industrial workers, consultancies, and joint development initiatives with government and the
     public and private agencies,
     Some steps adopted to increase cost recovery and external efficiency, and
     The introduction of systemic reforms and policy initiatives to support Project strategies.

H.       FUTURE OPERATIONS
     Jammu & Kashmir and UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands would complete the incomplete
     construction works in 3 locations soon,
     All States will undertake efforts to augment student enrollment further and bring it closed to
     the sanctioned values,
     Faculty and staff recruitment to fill the remnant vacancies would be accelerated,
     Faculty and staff development will be continued on a planned basis,
     The innovations in academic services offered by the polytechnics would be sustained and
     enhanced with the addition of new practices,
     Student employment would be promoted further as would be entrepreneurial ventures, and
     The initial mode and key lessons learnt will serve future reforms in the Project States.

I.       KEY LESSONS LEARNT
7.65.    Given the comparative backwardness and inexperience of the Project States and UT, it
was anticipated during conception that the Project implementation will run into problems soon
after initiation. But the achievements in the Projects indicate a totally different picture, one of
perseverance and missionary zeal with which the Project objectives were pursued. What could be
the discernable reasons for the remarkable outcomes and impact?

7.66.    One factor that comes to mind is the focus and application with which key stakeholders
addressed Project implementation. These stakeholders were either Project Directors or senior
officers of the state bureaucracy. It is this form of dedication that carried the Project through to its
successful end. It must be mentioned that Project leadership followed Project events to the point
of impact. This holds a lesson for any Project, which has diverse objectives and is implemented
by relatively less experienced people.

7.67.    Another factor that needs to be highlighted is the unexpected collaborative endeavor that
was observed between government departments in the implementation process. Viewed as a
consistent problem in most States and development Projects in the country, collaboration between
government departments is rarely successful in practice. Many models of collaboration have been
attempted at top, middle and ground levels. What probably worked in this Project was the


                                                   64

effective and highly influencing leadership at all levels and, specifically, the ground level. More
detailed studies need to be carried out about the actual model/s that were determinants of inter-
department collaboration. These studies are likely to add to learning.

7.68.   Not much of organizational analysis was performed in the early stages of the Project. In
fact, expect for the local implementers, the NPIU or even state level officials could not predict the
influence, which various stakeholders would have on the Project progress. Later on, it became
clear, that resistance to the Project, if any, was overcome through polytechnic or the SPIU
interventions. In reality there appears to be only meager resistance in a few cases. Not much of
resistance finds a place in the reports of the Projects, nor are the interventions recorded. The
crucial lesson from this experience is that the capacity of the less developed States for managing
Projects should not be under rated.

7.69.   As is observed in most education and other social development reforms, Project progress
follows what is well known as the S  curve. The implications are that such developments will
move very slowly in the early stages, then gather steam and move forward at a fast pace in the
middle stages and slow down for finishing touches towards the end. The S  curve was in
evidence in this Project and should be anticipated in Project planning in other reforms that will
occur in the future.

7.70.   The NITTTRs and NTTF provided excellent support in preparation of Detailed Project
Reports (DPRs), designing new curricula, revision of curricula, identifying equipment to be
purchased, vision - mission statements, strategic planning and execution best practices,
attachment to industry, job placement, tracer study and organizing & conducting training
programmes for faculty and staff.

7.71.   The four NITTTRs and NTTF played a significant role in assisting the advent of
academic reforms and the improvement of quality in academic services offered by the Project
Polytechnics. While credit is due to them, the part played by numerous polytechnic teachers in
understanding and adopting a new academic role was highly appreciable. Transferring learning to
students in live classroom and laboratory sessions has never been simple. While using an
innovative teaching method mix it becomes all the more complicated. That the polytechnic
teachers accomplished to the extent reported shows the struggle the teachers must have waged in
the course of the Project. Occasional hand holding by four NITTTRs and NTTF faculty,
suggestions from the SPIU and NPIU, and most of all the feed back and discussion that World
Bank mission visits provided were assisting factors in the change process.

7.72.   Each World Bank mission visit provides an opportunity for all involved agencies to
clarify their concepts and strategies. In fact each visit was a learning event. There is nothing
strange if all agencies involved in Project implementation learnt from the discussions in each visit
and fine-tuned their strategies. The World Bank guidance and assistance are to be acknowledged
for the positive role each team member played during the missions. Without their periodic
interventions, the extent of Project success could have been less. A similar recognition is to be
given to NPIU, State bureaucracy, SPIUs and the associated four NITTTRs and NTTF.

7.73.   The Project has made a positive impact. It fulfilled most of the impact objectives. The
lesson from this is that if planning is consensual, then all agencies involved in the consensus, will
reach beyond outcomes to impact. The initial understanding of impacting indicators is imperative.




                                                 65

                               List Of New Courses Introduced

Sr.
NO.          STATE/UT                                  Name of New Course Offered

                                 Hotel Management & Catering Technology (D)

1.   ANDAMAN & NICOBAR           Information Technology (D)
     ISLANDS                     Marine Engineering (PD)
                                 Deck Cadet (PD)
                                 Electrical & Electronic Engineering (D)
                                 Automobile Engineering (D)

2.   ARUNACHAL PRADESH           Information Technology (D)
                                 Costume Design & Garment Technology (D)
                                 Travel, Tourism & Hotel Management (D)
                                 Herbal Remedies & Cosmetology (D)
                                 Textile Design (D) (2 places)
                                 Medical Laboratory Technology (D) (2 places)
                                 Food Technology (D)
     JAMMU & KASHMIR             Travel & Tourism (D)
                                 Instrumentation & Control (D)
                                 Wood Technology (D)
3.                               Leather Technology (D)
                                 Computer Engineering (D)
     New Polytechnic at Kargil   Electrical Engineering (D)
                                 Information Technology (D)
                                 Computer Engineering (D)
     New Polytechnic at Leh      Civil Engineering (D)
                                 Travel & Tourism (D)
                                 Computer Science & Engineering (D)
                                 Information Technology (PD)
                                 Architectural Assistantship (D)

4.   MEGHALAYA                   Automobile Engineering (D)
                                 Costume Design & Garment Technology (D)
                                 Computer Applications (D)
                                 Medical Electronics (D)
                                 Food Processing & Preservation (D)
                                 Computer Science & Engineering (D)
5.   MIZORAM                     Garment Technology (D)
                                 Beauty Culture & Cosmetology (D)
                                 Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering (D)
                                 Computer Engineering (D)

6.   NAGALAND                    Information Technology (D)
                                 Automobile Engineering (D)
                                 Computer Applications (D)
                                 Fashion Technology (D)
                                 Electronics & Hardware Maintenance (D)
                                 Computer Science & Technology (D)
                                 Telecommunications Technology (D)
                                 Electrical & Electronics Engineering (D)
7.   SIKKIM                      Computer Applications (D) (2 places)
                                 Mechanical Engineering (D)
                                 Mechatronics (D)
                                 Tool & Die Making (D)
                                 Manufacturing Technology (D)
                                 Modern Office Management & Practice (D)
                                 Computer Science (D)
                                 Food Processing Technology (D)
                                 Automobile Engineering (D)
8.   TRIPURA                     Interior Decoration, Handicrafts & Furniture Design (D)
                                 Information Technology (D)
                                 Fashion Technology (D)
                                 Medical Laboratory Technology (D)
     D :      Diploma           PD :      Post Diploma




                                                   66

List of Technical Vocational Education & Training (TVE&T) Conducted

S.                                                     NAME OF THE POLYTECHNIC & STATES
NO.     NAME OF THE COURSES               LEVEL                               / UT

1    Automotive                              I         BR Ambedkar Govt Polytechnic & Second

2    MS Windows Level                    Stand alone   Polytechnic, Andaman & Nicobar Islands

3    Advance MS Windows                  Stand alone   Rangat, Hutbay, Compbell Bay Extension centers
                                                       at BR Ambedkar Govt. Polytechnic,

4    MS Windows                          Stand alone

5    Engineering (Basic)                     I
                                                       Rajiv Gandhi Polytechnic, Arunachal Pradesh
6    Clothing Production                     I

7    Automotive                              I

8    Domestic Electrician                Stand alone   Kashmir Govt. Polytechnic, Srinagar, Jammu &

9    Printing and Graphics Arts/ Desk        II        Kashmir

     Top Publishing

10   Printing and Graphics Arts / DTP        II        Govt. Polytechnic for Women Bemina, Srinagar,

11   Clothing Production                     I         Jammu & Kashmir

12   Construction (General)                  I         Govt. Polytechnic Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir

13   Personal Computer Operator          Stand alone

14   Domestic Electrician                Stand alone

15   Domestic Electrician                Stand alone   Govt. Polytechnic for Women, Jammu, Jammu &

16   Printing and Graphics Arts / DTP        II        Kashmir

17   Wireman                             Stand alone   Shillong Polytechnic, Meghalaya

18   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone
     Windows

19   Automotive                              I         Jowai Polytechnic, Meghalaya

20   Construction (General)                  I

21   Clothing Production                     I

22   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone   Tura Polytechnic, Meghalaya
     Windows

23   Printing and Graphics Arts / DTP        II

24   Wireman                             Stand alone

25   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone   Women Polytechnic Aizawl, Mizoram
     Windows

26   T V Technician                      Stand alone

27   Automotive                              I         Mizoram Polytechnic, Lunglei, Mizoram

28   Printing and Graphics Arts / DTP        II

29   Law Clerk (Administration)              I         Government Polytechnic, Kohima, Nagaland

30   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone   ICIT, Nagaland
     Windows

31   T V Technician                      Stand alone

32   Wireman                             Stand alone   Khelhoshe Polytechnic, Atoizu, Nagaland

33   Construction (General)                  I

34   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone   Centre for Computers and Communication
     Windows                                           Technology (CCCT) Sikkim
35   Personal Computer Operator, MS      Stand alone   Advanced Technical Training Centre (ATTC)
     Windows                                           Sikkim
36   Construction (General)                  I         Polytechnic Institute, Narsingarh, Tripura
37   Automotive                              I
38   Wireman                             Stand alone
39   Basic Engineering                       I
40   Office Automation                       I         Womens' Polytechnic, Agartala, Tripura




                                                    67

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

All states submitted state-wise ICR reports. These were incorporated into the overall
Borrowers' ICR. The full state reports are on file, and available at the NPIU.




                                            68

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


A&N SPIU 2007. Third Technician Education Project, Implementation Completion, State Project
        Implementation Unit, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.

AP SPIU 2007. Tech. Ed.  III Implementation and Results Report for each Project State/UT,
        State Project Implementation Unit, Arunachal Pradesh, Itanagar, 2001-2007.

J&K SPIU 2007. Third Technician Education, State Implementation Completion and Results
        Report, Dept. of Technical Education, Government of Jammu and Kashmir

Meghalaya SPIU2007. Implementation Completion Report For the State of Meghalaya.

Mizoram SPIU 2007. Third Technician Education, Implementation of Completion Report (ICR),
        Mizoram State, 2007

Nagaland SPIU 2007. Tech. Ed III  Information Required for the Implementation Completion
        Report, Kohima, July 20, 2007

NASSCOM 2005. The NASSCOM-McKinsey Study 2005. NASSCOM

NITTTR 2007. A Study on Utilization of Institutional Resources National Report. NITTTR
        Bhopal, 2007

NITTTR 2007. A Study on Assessment of Impact of World Bank Assisted Tech Ed III Project,
        National Institute of Technical Teachers' Training and Research (NITTTR  North
        Region), Sector 26, Chandigarh

NPIU 1999. Strategy preferences of polytechnic faculty and administrators for enhancing
        participation of women in technician education.

NPIU 2003. A study on continuous improvement in efficiency and effectiveness of teaching-
        learning process in the project polytechnics.

NPIU 2003. A strategic plan for resource generation through transfer and greater societal
        interaction

NPIU 2003. A study on current status of enrolment of women, rural and scheduled category
        students in polytechnics and current status of women, rural and scheduled category of
        technical staff in polytechnics (since 1999-2000 to 2003-2004)

NPIU 2004. Assessment of the continuing education needs of technicians and skilled workers of
        nearby institutions and other organizations,

NPIU 2004. A study on modernization of laboratories

NPIU 2004. A strategic plan for resource generation through transfer and greater societal
        interaction

NPIU 2005. A snap study on implementation of MPECS in the project polytechnics of J&K,

NPIU 2006. A snap study on the analysis of declining participation of women, SC/ ST and OBC
        in project polytechnics, Delhi,

Sikkim SPIU 2007. Third Technician Education Project in the State of Sikkim, Implementation
        Completion Report, Sikkim

Tripura SPIU 2007. Third Technician Education Project  Tripura: Implementation Completion
        Report.



                                                69

TTTI 2002 Technician Education Project, Report on Social Assessment for Project States,
      Kolkata.

World Bank 1997. Country Assistance Strategy for India, IBRD and IDA. No. 17241-IN;

World Bank 1999. India Technician Education Project, Implementation Completion Report,
      Report N#19042

World Bank 2000. Report No. 20416-IN, India, Scientific and Technical Manpower Development
      in India, Education Sector Unit, South Asia Region.

World Bank 2000. Second Technician Education Project, Implementation Completion Report,
      Report N#20415

World Bank. 2000-2007. Third Technician Education Project Aide Memoirs from 12 Joint
      Review Missions and one ICR mission.

World Bank. 2001. INDIA Second Technical Education Project, Implementation Status Report,
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)

World Bank 2001. Country Assistance Strategy for India, IBRD and IDA. Report No. 21852-IN

World Bank 2001. India Vocational Education Project, Technical Education Project, Technician
      Education II Project, and Electronic Industry Development Project, Independent
      Evaluation Group (IEG)

World Bank 2001. Quality At Entry Assessment of Tech Ed III. Final Indepth Assessment. QAG

World Bank 2004. Country Strategy for India, IBRD and IDA, Report No. 29374-IN

World Bank 2004. The World Bank India Client Survey 2004, Report of Findings.

World Bank. 2007. Third Technician Education Project Post Procurement Review Reports for
      2005/06.




                                              70

Annex 10. Beyond Numbers: A Glance at Personal Stories

Behind the many numbers in this completion and results report, there are thousands of personal
stories of how students, families, communities, teachers, and firms have benefited from the
project. This annex presents seven personal stories from the Andaman & Nicobar Islands; Four
beneficiaries from regular diploma and post-diploma courses and three beneficiaries from the
community-outreach training classes. While not every singled person benefiting from the project
has been as fortunate and talented as these individuals, the presented testimonies are considered
to be a fair picture of thousands of supported students and families.

Charles George hailing from a remote village of Mayabunder Tehsil (260 km
away from Port Blair, A&N Islands) enrolled in the Diploma course in
Information Technology, a newly created program under the Tech. Ed. III
project. He belongs to a community of Karen tribe brought to these islands
from Myanmar by British colonizers for their ability in forest works. They
have also been given Other Backward Class (OBC) status by Government of
India. He is presently placed in Hewlett Packard, Bangalore dealing with
technical support to US clients and drawing a monthly salary of Rs 20,000/-.
Charles George is a good case of how innovative practices adopted by the
institute have transformed a student hailing from rural background to a full
fledged professional. During his diploma performance he took up a real time
project of computerizing fleet management of state transport department on a
web based platform which made him technically strong and above his
mainland counterparts. The student information system introduced by the institute was able to track
students strength short-comings and helped the faculty to draw out a plan to improve communication,
presentation skill and confidence level.
                             Ms. E T Sindhu enrolled in Polytechnic education for a diploma in IT. She did
                             her schooling in Hindi medium and hails from a middle class family. She was
                             weak in her communication in English in the initial stages but she improved
                             substantially in her communication skills during her diploma course. She
                             passed out in the year 2006. She was able to compete with her counterparts in
                             mainland India and find a slot in a multinational company, HP Bangalore.
                             During the job interview she had to compete with degree holders at the
                             national level and she got through with her excellent skills, updated
                             knowledge and pleasing personality. She is presently drawing a salary of Rs
                             20,000/- per month.




Mr. S.Rajan belongs to a family of marginal farmers from South Andaman.
He joined the newly started Diploma in Hotel Management & Catering
Technology under the Tech. Ed.-III project. This Polytechnic is networking
partner of IHMCT, Dadar and final year students are sent to industrial
attachment training to various organization in Mumbai for a period of 3
months. Mr. S.Rajan went for his training and worked at Hotel Radisson,
Mumbai. After completing the training he landed a 6 months course for
Ground Supervision in Air India. After completion of the course he got an
appointment in Taj Flight Catering Service in Mumbai. At present he is
trainee supervisor looking after the catering services for Lufthansa. It is
highly encouraging that Mr. S.Rajan hailing from a humble background is
now a responsible person handling an international catering operation in
Mumbai. It is an amalgamation of effort by the Polytechnic Institute to
improve the soft skills of the students to cope with the requirement of the



                                                    71

industry, effective networking arrangement and a structured roll out map for the students which is now
paying dividend to the students.
                                        Mr. M.S. Perumal completed diploma in Mechanical Engineering
                                        and was unable to decide his future course of action. Jobs were not
                                        available and it would have been a long wait for him for seeking a
                                        satisfactory employment in the islands. He hails from a family
                                        settled in Rangat and a good job was his immediate requirement for
                                        supporting his family. The Post Diploma in Marine Engineering
                                        Course opened up an opportunity for him. He joined the course
                                        though the course cost was well above his family's financial
                                        capability. During diploma education he was just a mediocre
                                        student but after joining PDME there was a transformation in his
                                        attitude. A vision of bright future motivated him to strive for
                                        perfection. His academic side improved under the guidance of
                                        faculty appointed through MTI, Mumbai. There was a new found
leadership quality in his character. Communicating in English used to be an ordeal for him but continuous
coaxing by the faculty and creation of an environment of a professional merchant shipping line atmosphere
in the campus allayed his inhibitions. With in a year he became a role model not only for the PDME
students but also for the entire campus. Presently he is working in Eurasia, an international shipping line, at
an average salary of Rs 40,000/- bringing happiness to him and his family. This success will alleviate
economic condition of Mr. M.S. Perumal's family and inspire youngsters from his community to emulate
him.
The following three beneficiaries were part of a group of 229 learners who attended the Advanced Training
in Fashion and Apparel Designing. The course made a significant contribution to the economic alleviation
of participating women:

Ms. Reva Mondol attended the Port Blair main center. She is
one of the enterprising beneficiary has set up their own
enterprise. After graduation she set up a shop (Ishan Garments)
and gradually earned good reputation for her skill. Presently,
she is able to make a turn over of about Rs. 100,000 per annum
and employs five colleagues in her establishment.

Ms. Ayesha Bibi also completed the course at the Port Blair
main center. She started a small productive unit at her
residence and earns Rs. 4000-5000/- per month. She hired two
helpers for her business.

Ms. Gauri Rani Mandal graduated from Diglipur center. Her
family consists of six numbers and her father was the only one
earning member. She is now able to earn Rs 4000/- per month
and alleviate the economic condition of her family.




                                                     72

