                                                Documentof
                                             The WorldBank

                                        FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 29846-AFR




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                            PROPOSEDGRANT

                                 n THEAMOUNT OF SDR6.90 MILLIOP
                                   (USD 10.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                       GOVERNMENTOF THE UNITED REPUBLICOF TANZANIA

                                                 FORTHE

      AFRICANREGIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING NETWORKFORHIV/AIDS PREVENTION,
                                         TREATMENT, AND CARE

                                             AUGUST 19,2004




HumanDevelopment 1
IAfricadocument
        Regional Office
I This            has a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performance of their
  official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithoutWorld Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                      (ExchangeRateEffectiveMay 5,2004)

                         Currency Unit = TanzanianShilling
                             Tshs1:OO = US$O.O0898
                             US$l:OO = Tshs 1113.5

                                FISCALYEAR
                               July 1 -- June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


AIDS   Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ART    Antiretroviral Therapy

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy

CBO    Community-Based Organization

FMA    Financial Management (and Procurement) Agent

FMR    Financial MonitoringReport

HIV    HumanImmunodeficiency Virus

IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment

IDA    International Development Association

IEC    Information, Education and Communication

MAP    Multi-Country HIV/AIDSProgram for Africa

MODEP  MinistryofDevelopment andEconomic Planning

NACC   National HIV/AIDSCouncil

NACP   National HIV/AIDSControl Program (Ministry o f Health)

NAS    National HIV/AIDSSecretariat

NGO    Non-Governmental Organization

PIP    Project Implementation Plan

PLWHA  People Livingwith HIV/AIDS

STI     Sexually TransmittedInfections

TB     Tuberculosis

TOR     Terms o fReference

                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




   UNAIDS     Joint UnitedNations Program onHIV/AIDS

   UNICEF     UnitedNation's ChildrenFund

   VCT        Voluntary Counselingand Testing

   WHO        World Health Organization


                              Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
                    Country Managermirector:   Judy O'Connor
                     Sector ManagerAIirector:  Dzingai Mutumbuka
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sheila Dutta




This document hasa restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               AFRICA
 AFRICAN REGIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING NETWORK FOR HIVIAIDS PREVENTION,
                                      TREATMENT, AND CARE


                                             CONTENTS




A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                      2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      3
   2. Main sector issues andGovernment strategy                                          4
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project andstrategic choices                    6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Projectcomponents
   2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project
   3. Benefits andtarget population
   4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                            11
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        12
   3. Lessonslearned andreflectedinthe project design                                    13
   4. Indicationso f recipient commitment andownership                                   14
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        14

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                           14
   2. Financial                                                                          14
   3. Technical                                                                          14
   4. Institutional                                                                      15
   5. Environmental                                                                      18
   6. Social                                                                             19
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     20
   2. Critical risks                                                                     20
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21


G. Main Grant Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
   2. Other                                                                              22

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           22

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             22



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    26
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           28
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    29
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    30
           (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                           36
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     43
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    45
Annex 9: Statement ofLoans and Credits                                                   46
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            50
Annex 11: Selection and EligibilityCriteria for Training Institutions and Students       56
Annex 12: Project Supervision Strategy                                                   61
Annex 13: MonitoringandEvaluation                                                        64
Annex 14: Training Institutions                                                          70




MAP(S)
IBRD33082

                                                     AFRICA
             African Regional Capacity BuildingNetwork for HIV/AIDSPrevention, Treatment, and Care
                                       Project AppraisalDocument
                                              Africa RegionalOfice
                                                     AFTH1

Date: August 19,2004                                     Team Leader: Sheila Dutta
Sector ManagerElirector: Dzingai Mutumbuka               Sector(s): Health(100%)
Country ManagerElirector: Judy M.O'Connor                Theme(s): HIV/AIDS(P)
Project ID: PO80406
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)



 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
IFinancingPlan
 Amount (US$m): 10.0
                 (UStm):      Source                                Local         Foreign          Total
      0WEWRECIPIENT




 Address: P.O. Box 3021, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
 ContactPerson: ARCAN Project Coordinator

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective o f the ARCAN project i s to expand access to comprehensive and
evidence-based HIV/AIDSprevention, care and treatment programs by supporting a network o f
subregional "learning sites" to expand training o f health care practitioners. The project will
support HIV/AIDS-related health sector human resource capacity building in Kenya, Ethiopia,
and Tanzania using a "training-of-trainers" (TOT) model. It i s expected that, as a result o f
increased capacity among health care practitioners inthe subregion, this project will contribute to
the enhanced delivery o f HIV/AIDS-related services, stronger linkages between prevention and
care interventions, and expanded South-South partnerships.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The envisioned long-term impact of this project would involve both country-specific and
subregional improvements in the quality of HIV/AIDS-related service delivery and consequently
reductions inAIDS-related morbidity and mortality. However, given that such impact measures
would neither be quantifiable (nor attributable) during the four-year implementation period,
impact indicators will not be included among the key performance indicators for the ARCAN
project. Instead, the major focus will be on monitoring a core set o f outcome, output andprocess
indicators.
The proposed key performance indicators are noted below and expanded in Annex 1. Further
delineation o f these indicators, inaddition to ARCAN's overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
framework, are presentedinthe project's M&EManual (summarized inAdditional Annex 13).

Outcomeindicators: The major outcome indicatorsfor thisproject willfocus on identijjing
specijic individual-level factors enabling more effective health sector human capacity
development in the context of HIUAIDS. Theseindicators will be measured annually.

        Increase inthe percenthumber o f successfulARCAN "graduates" (Le. those who conduct
        at least the minimumrequired levelo fcascade training inthe first six months after their
        preliminary training) whose effectivenesswas predicted onthe basiso fthe project's
        student selection criteria ratings, pre- and post-course tests/evaluations, andor rating o f
        trainingwork plan quality.

        Increase inpercent o f service deliverypoints inARCAN countries with one (or more)
        primaryrecipients ofproject-supported TOT training.

        Increase inlevel o fjob satisfaction reportedby ARCAN graduatesone year after course
        completion.

 Output indicators: The major output indicators will examineprojectfeatures relating to
 knowledge, skills, resource mobilization, andpractice, among ARCANgraduates. These
 indicators will be measured annually.




                                                  - 2 -

       Increase inthe percent o fARCAN graduateswho conduct one training sessioninthe first
       six months after their primary training(i.e. number o f "successfhl" graduates inany given
       course dividedby the total number o f graduates from the same course), as measured
       annually through trainingreports submitted to the Project Coordination Unit.

       Total amount o f financial resourcesmobilizedby ARCAN graduates (from national MAPS
       and other sources) to conduct their TOT-model training, as measuredat 12month
       intervals o fthe project.

       Qualitative reviewo fthe support providedto ARCAN graduates after completion of their
       primary TOT course, including resourcemobilization, access to training materials, contact
       withrelevantnational andor intemational technicalhaining entities, participation in
       "refresher" courses and conferences, etc. (measured at project mid-termreview and
       completion).

Process indicators: Theprimary process indicatorsfor thisproject will address the actual
training process by the regional training institutions involved inproject implementation,in
addition to the continuing TOT-model training conducted by ARCAN graduates.

       Increase inthe total number o ftraining hours conducted as a result o fthe ARCAN Project
       (Le. total number of individuals trained [sumo fthe work o fbothARCAN training
       institutions andthe ARCAN course graduates] multipliedby the number o ftraininghours
       conducted).

       Increaseinthe numbedpercent o f individuals trained by ARCAN graduatesper number o f
       people initially targeted, according to work plans (i.e. "actual" versus "planned" training
       targets).


B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-relatedCountry AssistanceStrategy(CAS) goalsupportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: (Indicated below)      Date of latestCAS discussion:(Indicated below)

Ethiopia: The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia (Report'25591-ET) was issued
on March 24, 2003. This CAS focuses on improving human development outcomes, enhancing
pro-poor growth, and reducing vulnerability, and also places emphasis on the need for capacity
bpilding. This document indicates that constraints to improvinghealth services lie primarilyinthe
shortage o f skilled human resources and identifies HIV/AIDS as the foremost threat to national
poverty andvulnerability reduction efforts.

Kenya: The CAS for Kenya (Report'29038-KE), issued on May 19,2004, identifies support for
an improved understanding o f poverty, the health sector, the education sector, and the national
response to HIVIAIDS as among it basic areas o f support. The CAS notes that HIV/AIDS i s a
top priority for the government.




                                                  - 3 -

Tanzania: The CAS for Tanzania (Report#20728-TA), issued on June 30, 2000, highlights the
need for improved service delivery, indicates that the Bank will retain its significant focus on
health sector development, and supports the national Poverty Reduction Strategy. The CAS also
notes the emergence o f HIV/AIDS as a multi-sectoral development issue posing a severe
constraint to poverty alleviationefforts.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

Background
Despite increased levels o f political commitment and financial investment at both national and
international levels inrecent years, there still exists substantialdeficiencies inthe development and
provision o f relevant and comprehensive training for health care practitioners involved in the
design and implementation of HIV/AIDS-related prevention, care, and treatment interventions.
Experience has demonstrated that the impact of such intensified investment and advocacy efforts
will be constrained, however, without improved capacity and training among health care
practitioners, particularly among those already heavily engaged in HIV/AIDS-related service
delivery.
There is a consequent need to develop human resource development/management strategies that
take into account the impact o fthe epidemic on national health systems. Basic pre- andin-service
training, as well as continuing education, will be necessary to produce qualified health personnel
in sufficient numbers to effectively respond to HIV/AIDS. Given maturing epidemics and
increasing demands on the health sector across the African continent, the development and/or
sharing o f high quality and regionally-relevant curricula, training materials and programs
(including distance learning modules) for health care practitioners at all levels can be viewed as a
public good.     The development o f ARCAN as a subregional project enables the potential
harmonization o f approaches, with respect to improvedHIV/AIDS-related capacity development,
and greater knowledge-sharing across countries. The ARCAN Project will place particular
emphasis on ensuring that its training programs are delivered by recognized subregional
institutions, working in close partnership with the public and private sectors, civil society
organizations, intersectoral programs, and with a wide range o ftechnical partners.


Health Sector Capacity Gaps

Countries receiving support under the MAP program, including Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania,
currently possess limited ability to provide prevention, care and treatment services for people
living with HIV/AIDS, including the management of simple opportunistic infections. Issues
 surrounding the ability to provide comprehensive HIV/AIDS-related services in resource-limited
 settings require substantial capacity enhancementamong health care practitioners at all levels.
Part of this capacity gap results from the fact that an effective response to HIV/AIDS requires
 additional skills and approaches that have not always been characteristic o f traditional health
 systems. Additionally, in most developing countries, health systems were relatively weak and
under-resourced prior to the advent o f AIDS, which has since served to exacerbate these
 institutional and financial vulnerabilities. Maturing epidemics are now placing greater strains on



                                                   - 4 -

these already over-stretched systems, as the demand for health services continues to grow in
parallel with increasing morbidity and mortality. HIV/AIDS also has led to a resurgence in
tuberculosis, a lethal synergy which urgently requires additional efforts and resources to redress.
The combined impact at country-level generally includes a dramatically increasedworkload for
health care practitioners, over-crowding o f health facilities at all levels, high hospital bed
occupancy rates, and more frequent shortageshtock-outs o f medical commodities and basic
pharmaceuticals.
In addition to the above complexities, the output of health care providers in high prevalence
countries can be substantially reduced due to attritionhum-out, morbidity and mortality among
co-workers, personal illness, illness among family membedrelatives, frequent absences to attend
funerals, and perceived risk o f occupational transmission o f HIV infection. Two decades o f
experience with HIV/AIDS have clearly indicated that the "business as usual" approach to
addressing such health sector challenges will not suffice. A more comprehensive, coordinated,
and inter-sectoral responseto health sector capacity development will require greater government
stewardship, particularly with respect to Ministries o f Health and National HIV/AIDS
Councils/Commissions, inclosepartnership with private sector and civil society entities.


TrainingNeeds Assessmentfor Eastern and Southern Africa
The report o f a recent series o f assessments supported by USAID (Regional Economic
Development Services Office for East and Southern Africa), to examine the needs for
HIV/AIDS-related training in 12 Eastern and Southern African countries, including Ethiopia,
Kenya, and Tanzania, serves to highlight these gaps. The major findings o f this assessment
indicate that although counties have developed national strategies that clearly indicate priorities
in the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, these plans provide limited attention to human
capacity development.     In essentially all counties included in this assessment, there was a
significant disconnect betweentraining gaps reported by key informants andnational-level training
programs/opportunities. Interestingly, the report notes that the degree to which this limited
national focus on capacity development stems from resource constraints, versus the presumption
that the neededtraining would "somehowl' occur, remains unclear.
The most critical training gaps identified in the country-specific reports for this assessment
included: management skills for program administrators and/or coordinators; clinical management
o f HIV/AIDS for health care practitioners at all levels; counseling and communication skills for
health care practitioners at all levels; and community-based service delivery. Importantly, these
assessments identified the need to also address specific training needs in non-health sectors in
order to strengthen the requisite multisectoral and multi-partner response to HIV/AIDS. The
results o f this series o f country assessments emphasize both the enormity o f the existing
HIV/AIDS-related training gaps and the critical need to enhance capacities o f regional training
institutions so that they are more effectively and proactively able to respond to these long-term
needs (Source: USAID/REDSO, 2003).


Epidemic Status in ARCAN Countries
Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania are among the most heavily affected countries by the HIV/AIDS


                                                - 5 -

epidemic. UNAIDS estimates that as o f December 2003, the national adult prevalence rate in
Ethiopia was 4.4 percent indicating that 1.5 million Ethiopians (adults and children) were living
with HIV/AIDS. There were also estimated to be 720,000 AIDS orphans (under the age of 17
years) inEthiopia at this point. The national adult prevalence rate inKenya was estimated to be
6.7 percent in December 2003, with 1.2 million individuals living with HIV/AIDS and 650,000
orphans. InTanzania, the corresponding adult prevalence rate was estimated to be 8.8 percent,
with 1.6 million individuals living with HIV/AIDS andover 980,000 orphans, to date (UNAIDS
Epidemic Report, July 2004).


3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

Relationship to National MAP and Health Sector Projects
The proposed subregional MAPproject will serve a complementary and catalytic role to boththe
national MAP and health sector projects currently effective in each o f the three ARCAN
countries. Indiscussionsheldwith country counterparts duringpreparation, the Bank emphasized
that although the ARCAN project would fully finance the development and delivery o f this
subregional training program, participating countries would need to commit to supporting the
continuation o f the "training-of-trainers" model at country level, using national IDA or other
explicitly identifiedfinancial resources. Countries' willingness to commit to the provision o f this
support (in the form o f a letter submitted to IDA from the respective National HIV/AIDS
CounciVCommission andor Ministry of Health) was a prerequisite for consideration under this
grant.

Guidelines for Eligibility and Selection Criteria for Training Institutions and Training
Participants
The training institutions forming the ARCAN network (i.e. the project "implementers"), will be
selected on the basis o f a proven track-record in implementingtraining programs inthe different
areas prioritized under the ARCAN project. Consequently, ARCAN-supported training programs
will be deliveredby aneligible group oftraining institutions inacademia, the public sector, private
sector, civil society, to a qualified group o f training participants. During project pre-appraisal,
eligibility and selection criteria for training entities and TOT participants were approved by the
ARCAN Steering Committee following a two-phased process, which is detailed in Additional
Annex 11. The final selection o fthe ARCAN training institutions was conducted by the Steering
Committee duringproject appraisal.

Eligibilityfor MAP Subregional Projects
As presentedinthe Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for MAP2, subregional
HIV/AIDSprojects will be eligible for support under the MAP ifthey meet the following access
criteria:
         -The project addresses a subregional or cross-border HIV/AIDS issue,promotes apublic
        good of multinational scope, provides services to populations beyond the reach of
         national programs, or realizes economies of scale that would not be practical to attain
         through cooperative country-level action. The establishment o f a subregional training
         network for HIV/AIDSpractitioners, such as ARCAN, would realize economies o f scale


                                                 - 6 -

       and leadto increasedquality andconsistencyinsubregional service delivery.
       -No other alternative for achieving the project goals would be as practicable or
       economic. The harnessing o f technical and human resources from the multiple sites o f
       excellence required for this program would not be feasible to achieve solely through a
       national program o f any givenIDA country inthe subregion.
       -The project has been endorsed by the governments of the countries concerned or a
       relevant public international or regional organization.       Strong endorsement by the
       national HIV/AIDS authorities (National HIV/AIDS Councils/Commissions, Ministries o f
       Health, and Ministries o f Finance) o f ARCAN countries has been received.          Senior
       officials from the NACCs, MOWNACPs, and MOF also will be serving on the project's
       Steering Committee, inaddition to NGO representativesfrom each country.
       -The project is consistent with the HIV/AIDS strategies, policies, and programs o f the
       affected countries andwith any relevant subregional and intemational strategy and policy.
       This project complements national HIV/AIDS strategies, MAP operations, and health
       sector programs in each o f the ARCAN countries, and also follows the priorities
       establishedbynational health sector capacity buildingplans.
       -A high-level coordinating body has been established to oversee the implementation of
       the project. The ARCAN Steering Committee includes the heads o f National HIV/AIDS
       Councils and Ministryof HealthNationalAIDS Control Programs. It also includes senior
       representation from Ministries o f Finance andnationalNGOs.
       -Appropriate institutions, policies, procedures, and regulations are in place to enable
       concerned subregional and national stakeholders to participate effectively in project
       implementation. The training institutions involved inthe implementation o f the ARCAN
       project will be derived from the public sector, private sector, and civil society training
       institutions, primarily onthe basis o f implementation experience.
       -The implementing body has an adequatefiduciaryframework in place to comply with all
       IDA requirements and safeguards. These issues have been addressedand detailedin the
       project's Financial Management Manual, in addition to the financial management sections
       o fthe appraisal document.
       -The implementing body has agreed to use exceptional implementation arrangements to
       accelerate project implementation.        The ARCAN Project Coordination Unit will
       subcontractmost key implementation tasks, including financial management, procurement,
       monitoring and evaluation, and technical service consultancies in the interest o f reducing
       bureaucracyand streamlining project efficiency.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed costbreakdown):
The ARCAN program aims to achieve an optimal balance between addressing prevention,
treatment, care, and support issues.       In the development of the project sub-components,
prevention and care have been explicitly treated as part of a continuum, versus as competing or
discrete entities.

The proposedARCAN project components include the following:




                                                 - 7 -

(a) Health care practitioner training. The project will support the implementation o f short-term
(non-diploma) training courses for health care practitioners at various levels, including physicians,
nurses, counselor supervisors, laboratory technicians, and HIV/AIDS program managers. All
programs financed under ARCAN will follow the training-of trainers (TOT) approach inorder to
maximize the impact o fthis capacity-building project.

(b) Monitoring and evaluation and knowledge sharing. The proposedproject will prioritize the
establishment o f a system of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) that would enable the rapid
synthesis and sharing o f lessons and also their application to the continued strengthening o f the
program.     Routine dissemination o f HIV/AIDS-related program information would also be
financed underthis component to ensure greaterknowledge sharing betweenandwithincounties.
As part of its continuing education emphasis, ARCAN will explore options for distance learning
to maximize resources and to ensure a broader regional approach for sharing experiences and
enhancingskills.

(c) Program coordination.           This component would support the development o f strong
coordination and capacity building between ARCAN counties and their implementing,
coordinating, andgoverning agencies. A major focus o f this component would involve providing
the ARCAN Project Coordination Unit with support to conduct its administrative, fiduciary, and
technical responsibilities.


                                                            Indicative                 Bank-       %of
                         Component                           costs       %of         financing     Bank-
                                                             (US$M)      Total        (US$M)     financing
  1. Healthcare practitioner training                           7.72       77.2          7.72        77.2
  2. Monitoringandevaluationandknowledge sharing          II    0.38         3.8         0.38        3.8  II
  3. Programcoordination                                        1.50  II1   15.0  III    1.50 II1    15.0
  Unallocated                                                   0.40         4.0         0.40        4.0

                                   Total FinancingRequiredI    10.00  1    100.0  I     10.00 I     100.0 I

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
This project will support subregional capacity building, with respect to the training of HIV/AIDS
practitioners, in addition to strengthening South-South learning networks.           The project will
indirectly support national decentralization policies inthe ARCAN countries by building capacity
among health care practitioners at various levels to better respond to the demands and impacts of
the epidemic.




                                                  - 8 -

3. Benefits and target population:
The major direct and indirect benefits stemming from this project will include improvedtraining o f
health professionals inthe management of HIV/AIDS, improved quality and coverage o f national
prevention, treatment, care and support programs, and a stronger subregional response. Although
much o f this project will focus on health care practitioners, the project will follow a multisectoral
approach inthat students for ARCAN training, particularly the program management courses, will
bedeliberately drawn from all relevant sectors.


4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The multi-country nature o f this "learning" project necessitates the development o f institutional
andimplementation arrangementsthat are simplified and flexible to as large anextent as possible.


a) Structure of the Steering Committee: The Steering Committee (SC) represents the highest
policy and governancebody for the ARCAN network. Key features o f the SC include:
        i)Acompositionoffourteenmembers,foureachfromofEthiopiaandKenya, andsix
        from Tanzania (four from the Mainland and two from Zanzibar); further details regarding
        the SC composition are presentedbelow;
        ii)TheheadoftheARCANProjectCoordinationUnit(PCU)toserveasSCsecretary;
        iii)Thepositionof SCchairpersonandvice-chairpersonSC,aswellas,meetinglocations
        to be rotated between ARCAN countries;
        iv) SC meetings to be held twice each year; the first meetingto specifically review and
        approve the annual work plan and budget, and provide overall policy guidance; the
        second meeting, at mid-year, to review and discuss progress with implementation, M&E,
        financial and other technical reports, as required.

b) Sub-Committees: The SC will be aided by two sub-committees: a Technical Sub-committee
dealing with all content issues and an Audit Sub-committee responsible for all fiduciary issues.
The four members o feach subcommittee, includingthe SC Chair, will be derived from the overall
SC membership. With respect to the Audit Sub-Committee, it was agreed that this group would
be primarily constituted by the Ministry of Finance representatives on the SC.               The two
sub-committees will meet no more than twice a year.

c) Composition of the Steering Committee: Given the above roles and responsibilities, it was
agreedthat the SC composition from eachARCAN country would be constituted by: (i)             the head
o f the Ministry o f Health's national AIDS program; (ii)       the head o f the National HIV/AIDS
CounciVCommission; (iii)      a senior representative from the Ministry o f Finance; and (iv) an
NGO/CBO representative with strong experience in the field. The overall Steering Committee
nomination process was jointly ledby heads o f the National HIV/AIDSCouncils and Ministry o f
Health National HIV/AIDS Control Programs.              Details regarding the overall institutional
arrangementsare presentedinthe Project Operations Manual.

d) Project Coordination Unit: A small Project Coordination Unit (PCU), o f five full-time
professional staff, will have the responsibility for the coordination o f all ARCAN activities. The


                                                  - 9 -

PCU will report to the Steering Committee and will be responsible for the daily management and
coordination o f the overall program. It will operate as an autonomous body. The ARCAN
Project Coordinator (i.e. the PCU head) will act ex-&io                     as Secretary o f the Steering
Committee. The Steering Committee will select the head o f the PCU and the four PCU Program
Officers based on a competitive process to which candidates from all ARCAN countries will be
invited to apply.

Inorder to maximize efficiency, the project will adopt afaire-faire philosophy, contracting-out
services when possible, rather than cultivating in-house expertise. As a result, a number o f key
project management functions will be contracted out by the PCU (to independent firms, agencies
andor independent consultants) on the basis o f one-year, renewable, performance-based
contracts, in accordance with Bank guidelines.               This out-sourcing will include financial
management, procurement, monitoring andevaluation, travel arrangements, the annual audit, and
specific technical assessments.




                                                Office o f the




                                          ARCAN Steering Committee
                                  (NACC, MOH, MOF, NGO representatives from Ethiopia,
                                                Kenya, & Tanzania)




                                             Project Coordination Unit
                                                        (PCU)



                Training Institutions           Financial           Monitoring &       Technical
                 (Project "Implementers")     Management &            Evaluation        Service
                                            Procurement Agent            Agent          Agent




 Operations Manual
 The ARCAN Project Operations Manual (including the Project Implementation Plan and the
 Financial Procedures Manual) and M&E Manual were prepared during the course o f project
 preparation. Preparation o fthe Procurement Manual beganduringprojectpreparation andwill be
 completed before project effectiveness.

 Linkages withNational HIV/AIDSCoordination Bodies and Ministries o fHealth
 Ineachofthe countries participatinginthe ARCANproject, HIV/AIDSefforts arecoordinatedat
 the national level by a high-level multisectoral body, the responsibilities o f which include (in
 addition to the broad mandate o f coordination): advocacy; providing leadership and stimulus for


                                                   -10-

an enhanced national response; and monitoring and evaluation. Coordinating bodies in each o f
the ARCAN participating countries are: (i)        in Ethiopia, National HIV/AIDS Control Council
(HAPCO), located in the Office o f the Prime Minister; (ii)        inKenya: National AIDS Control
Council (NACC), located in the Office o f the President; and (iii)         in Tanzania (Mainland and
Zanzibar): Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS), located in the Prime Minister's Office;
andthe Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC), locatedinthe ChiefMinister's Office.

Given that they are responsible for overall coordination o f the national response, the national
coordinating bodies can be expected to maintain up-to-date knowledge o f the HIV/AIDS-related
initiatives o f the key training institutions intheir respective countries. As such, these coordinating
bodies will play a key role inthe coordination and oversight o f any preliminaryneeds assessment
activity that might be necessary prior to project implementation. Similarly, they will serve as the
primary repository of information related to training and capacity development throughout
ARCAN implementation. The national coordinating bodies will therefore be a primary link for
ARCAN at the country level, as consistent with their roles in the national responses and MAP
programs.

Since priority will be placed on health-related training needs, each country's Ministry o f Health
(primarily through the National AIDS Control Programs) will serve as an additional crucial
ARCAN link, with respect to technical input and leadership, incorporation o f ARCAN activities
within national training plans, in addition to ensuring the follow-up of trainees, Due to the
importance o f maintaining these institutional links over time, and to provide country-level
leadership, oversight and ownership, it was agreedthat the heads o fboth the National HIV/AIDS
CounciVCommission and the Ministry o f Health National AIDS Control Program from each
country will serve as members o f the ARCAN Steering Committee, in addition to senior
representativesfrom Ministries o f Finance and civil society organizations.


D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection:
The following project alternatives were considered:

-Multiple individual country projects: The initiation o f an ARCAN-like structure in each
interested country, using traditional lending instruments, would not be able to achieve the
programmatic synergies, the multi-country and multi-level partnerships, nor the economies o f
scale that can potentiallybe reachedusinga multi-country approach. N o single country possesses
training programs with the requisite proven implementation capacity and expertise in all priority
areas.

-Singletrainingsite: SupporttoasingletrainingsitetoaddresstheHIV/AIDSrelatedhuman
resource capacity needs for the subregion was assessed as non-viable due to the wide range o f
training needs incountries. N o single training institution possesses the requisite multi-level and
multi-sectoral implementation experience, much less the technical capacity to undertake such an
effort.   Moreover, there was also no interest in this "single-source" model from country


                                                   - 11-

counterparts.

-Subregionaltrainingnetworkcomposedof multiple learningsitesof excellence:Theproposed
project would enable the creation o f a subregional network o f ''best practice" institutions already
involved in the training o f health care practitioners. This model has been assessed by IDA and
national counterparts as the most effective and flexible mechanism to respond to health sector
capacity gaps.


2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoing and planned).


             Sector Issue                           Project

                                                                       mplementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                          Progress(IP)   Objective(DO)

 HIV/AIDS                              Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster
                                             -                               v               S
                                       Response Project (MAP)
 Health                                Kenya - Decentralized                 U              U
                                       HIV/AIDS andReproductive
                                       HealthProject
 PublicAdministratiodEducation         Kenya - DevelopmentLearning           S               S
                                       Centre Project
 HIV/AIDS                              Ethiopia  - Multi-Sectoral            S               S
                                       HIV/AIDS Project (MAP)
 Health                                Ethiopia  - Health Sector             S               S
                                       DevelopmentProgram
 HIV/AIDS                              Tanzania: Multi-Sectoral AIDS         S               S
                                       Project (MAP)
 Health                                Tanzania: SecondHealth                S               S
                                       Sector DevelopmentProject
 3ther developmentagencies
 USAID                                 Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 Netherlands                           Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 EuropeanUnion                         Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 WHO                                   Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 UNAIDS                                Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 DfID                                  Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 GTZ                                   Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
 UNICEF                                Program Support


                                                 - 12-

 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)
UNDP                                      Program Support
 (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania)




3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
Some o f the key lessons learned over the past three years of M A P implementation, include the
following:
        -Capacity     building at all levels is critical to the development of a long-term and
        sustained response to HIV/AIDS. The ARCAN project i s focusing its efforts on the
        expansion of capacity within various levels o fthe health sector.
        -Management        of HIV/AIDS programs calls for exceptional measures. The initial
        response to the MAP program in many countries has been to treat these projects as any
        other, when the urgency o f the problem and its devastation call for unconventional
        responses. Implementation o f key aspects, including financial management, procurement,
        monitoring and evaluation and selected service delivery, have usually been more effective
        when they are "contracted" rather than done "in house." This out-sourcing principle has
        been kept foremost in mind in designing the project coordination mechanisms for
        ARCAN.
        -Scaling    up existing programs and building capacityfor HIV/AIDS activities have been
         more dificult than originally expected. Capacity building needed for scaling up has two
         distinct components: enhancing skills; and increasing the quantity o f existing skills and
         institutional infrastructure. Through its explicit focus onhumanresource capacity building
         and the use of a "training of trainers" model, the ARCAN project will address these
         constraints to the best o f its ability.
         -Monitoring     and evaluation (M&E) systems are the key to effective implementation. In
         an experimental and learning process, a good M&E system is absolutely essential. The
         ARCAN project has focused on ensuring that strong andflexible M&E arrangementswere
         developed duringthe projectpreparation period.
         -Partnerships matter. Addressing HIVIAIDS effectively can only be done by genuine
         collaboration-within     government, between the public and private sectors and civil
         society, among donors, and specialized technical agencies. Effective partnership involves
         sharing power and responsibility during program design and implementation.               The
         ARCAN project has already established strong partnerships with a number o f partners
         from the private sector, academia, civil society, in addition to a regional and international
         technical entities. This process will be actively continued and the potential for other
         strategic partnerships, particularly with respect to distance learning and telemedicine will
         beexamined, duringimplementation.




                                                  - 1 3 -

4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
As was previously discussed, willingness of counties to utilize existing MAPhealth credit
resources to support the continuation of the ARCAN training-of-trainers model at country-level
was among the eligibilityrequirements for this project. Early inpreparation, letters to this effect
were submitted to IDA by the respective National HIV/AIDS Councils/Commissions and/or
Ministries o fHealth.


5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
The Bank's support to this project brings a broad development perspective to addressing
HIV/AIDS,experience indesigning andimplementingnational HIV/AIDSproject inmore than26
African countries, partnerships with numerous regional and international technical bodies
(including UNAIDS, WHO, and the GFATM), and the potential to address HIV/AIDS-related
resource gaps at both the national and subregional levels. The development o f new means o f
sharingknowledge andbuildingcapacity inclient counties is also a core fictionofthe Bank.


E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe projectfile, seeAnnex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0Costbenefit          NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
The economic analysis contained inthe PAD for the MAP1(Report# 20727 AFR) contains the
overall economicjustification andunderpinningsfor the ARCAN project. Giventhat the
proposed project would be supporting training and capacity buildingefforts utilizing establishing
African training entities, a separate economic analysis will not berequired.


2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
 The fiscal impact o fthis project is expectedto be negligible.



 3. Technical:
 The ARCAN project will follow internationally acceptedbestpractice with respectto training o f
 health care practitioners inHIVIAIDSprevention, treatment, care and support services, as
 validated by UNAIDSandWHO, inaddition to other key technical partners.




                                                 -14 -

4. Institutional:
The Governments of Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania all expressed interest in serving as
signatory/recipient o f the proposed subregional IDA grant.          During the course o f project
preparation, various options with respect to the housing o f the project and the consequent
locationo f the Project Coordination Unitwere assessed, with the respective Ministries o f Finance
(MOF), Ministries o f Health NOH), and National HIV/AIDS CounciVCommission (NAC) in
Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania.        In Kenya and Ethiopia, the Bank was informed that the
possibilities to house ARCAN would be within the M O H or N A C structures. In Tanzania,
however, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) indicated its willingness to house the project under
its own ministry. For reasons outlined below, the Tanzanian PMO was assessed as the most
viable anddesirable option for the ARCAN project:

National AIDS CounciZs/Commissions: Although initially suggestedby most countries, housing a
subregional project within the structure o f one o f the National AIDS Councils/Commissions
(NACs), would be in conflict with the existing legal frameworks o f these national entities. The
proposed by-laws o f ARCAN are conceived for a subregional program andare not amenable with
those o f NACs. Capacity and administrative constraints would likely also present a serious
challenge for these generally overextended national bodies to coordinate/support a multi-country
program. Moreover, the selection o f one NAC from among those involved inthis project would
likely create undesirable rivalry among the other countries. These circumstances would not afford
ARCAN the necessaryimpartiality.

Ministries of Health: The second option raised by most countries involved the potential housing
o f the ARCAN within the structure o f Ministries of Health. However, this option is also viewed
by IDA as problematic. First, placing a MAP project within the confines of any MOHwould be
contrary to the basic principle o f a multisectoral response, the cornerstone o f the Bank's regional
response to HIV/AIDS. Moreover, housing ARCAN within the challenging and over-stretched
environment o f a M O H would likely lead to significant difficulties in the implementation of this
regional project. The fact that ARCAN i s being explicitly designed with a very light coordination
structure, requiringa highdegree o f autonomy and flexibility to achieve its goals, emphasizesthis
point. Finally, in discussions with Governments, there was general acknowledgement that if one
Ministry of Health were to be selected to house ARCAN over the others, it would likely be
"difficult" to obtain requisite support from the other countries, in a timely manner, due to
intra-sectoral pressures.

Ofices of the Prime Minister or President: Based on the overall institutional assessment and the
lessons learned from MAP projects under implementation, the mission supported the positioning
o f ARCAN as an autonomous entity within either the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) or
President's Office (OP) o f one o f the partner countries. In conformity with the multisectoral
approach o f MAPS,placing ARCAN within PMO or OP (and explicitly outside any NAC
structure), was determined to be the most viable option to safeguard the autonomy, integrity,
subregional nature, and subsequentimplementation effectiveness o fthis subregional project.


4.1 Executingagencies:
The ARCAN Project will be executed through a number o f highly qualified and established


                                                 -15-

training institutions based inthe subregion. As discussed earlier, these implementing institutions
will be selectedon the basis on agreedeligibility requirements by the Steering Committee. h e x
11 details the selection and eligibility criteria for the project training institutions and Annex 14
outlines the background and content o f selectedtraining programs.


4.2 Project management:
Given that Tanzania will serve as signatory for this multi-country project, the ARCAN Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) will be based in Dar-Es-Salaam. It has been established that the PCU
will be an autonomous entity andthat itwill liaise with the Office o fthe Prime Minister through a
government-appointed senior official.     The PMO will serve as the institutional home of the
project, although the PCUwill retainits autonomy.


4.3 Procurement issues:
Contracts for goods, such as office equipment and furniture for the PCU office would beprocured
inaccordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published in May 2004. Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" publishedby
the Bank inMay 2004. Procurement inthe proposed project will mainly involve contracting-out
specific services, minor rehabilitation works for the PCU offices and some minor procurement o f
goods (for the PCU).      Procurement arrangements are based on those established for MAP
operations and specifically will follow simplified procurement guidelines.           Details regarding
Procurement Arrangements are presentedinAnnex 6(A).




                                                 - 16-

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
a) Flow of funds and Disbursements

The United Republic o f Tanzania has beenmandatedby the ARCAN countries to be the recipient
country and consequently signatory for this multi-country IDA grant.          The Government o f
Tanzania has inturndelegatedthe oversight role to the Office o f the Prime Minister. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) will be assisted in managing the project finances by a Financial
Management and Procurement Agent (FMA) to be contracted for that purpose and undertake
procurement under the project. The project Grant Account will be maintained at the World Bank
Headquarters. The PCU will establish a US Dollar Special Account in a commercial bank
satisfactory to IDA, preferably inthe host country (Tanzania), into which advances will be made
periodically from the GrantAccount. A Project Account inlocal currency will be establishedina
commercial bank satisfactory to IDA which will be financed with b d s drawn from the Special
Account on a need basis from time to time, to ensure the Grant value i s protected from exposure
risk oferratic foreignexchangerates.

Disbursements against eligible project expenditures will be made following the report-based
disbursement approach, where Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and used to trigger flow o f
funds from the GrantAccount to the Special Account. Expenditures paidunderthe project will be
subject to ex-post review for eligibility and reasonableness and economy. FMRs have the
advantage o f facilitating matching o f financial, procurement and physical progress in a project.
FMRs for this project will be submitted on quarterly, within 45 days after end o f each quarter.
FMR formats to be used in this project are illustrated in the Financial Management and
Procurement Procedures Manual (FPPM) presentlybeing finalized by including the procurement
section. Supporting documentation for expenditures reported inFMRwill be retained at the PCU
office, from where they will be subsequently reviewed by supervision missions and availed for
audit. IDA will arrange for capacity buildingclinics for the FMA and the PCU staff on FMRs and
how these are prepared inview o fthe fact that the staff may be handlingFMRsfor the first time.

b) Counterpart Funding

The governments o fthe three ARCAN countries have all providedtax exemption for expenditures
under the project where goods and services are procured from these countries. Inview ofthis the
governments will not provide counterpart contribution in cash, but will support the project by
makinga contribution in-kindthrough the staff time by public servants who will provide support
to the project. Inparticular, staff-time o f trainees who are nominated from the public service will
take time off from work to attend the courses and in addition to this they will spend staff-time
whenthey return to implementtheir training. Use o f existingtraining facilities, andnational-level
coordination and dissemination o f information within the M O H and NACC structures also add to
the non-monetray counterpart contributionto the project.

During project preparation, the Bank discussed with the respective Ministries of Finance the



                                                  -17-

subject o ftaxes and duties on expenditures to be incurred underthe grant (Note: Taxes envisaged
for Kenya and Ethiopia refer to taxes imposed on ARCAN contracts with training institutions
only;    while taxes envisaged for Tanzania, where the PCU is physically located, refer to taxes
imposed on the purchase o f goods and services for the PCU, in addition to ARCAN contracts to
Tanzanian training institutions). The Government o f Tanzania has clearly indicated that ARCAN
expenditures for goods and services, as well as for oil and lubricants, would be tax exempted.
Similarly, both the Governments o f Ethiopia and Kenya indicated that, as in the case o f the
national MAP projects, contracts with training institutions will be tax exempted. Based on the
above, the grant agreement would indicate that the project would be tax exempted and that the
Schedule I(disbursement schedule) should be articulated to reflect 100percent Bank financing.

c) Resource Allocation

Project resources will not be allocated separately to each o f the ARCAN counties but will be
allocated to components and the trainees drawn equitably from these counties will benefit for the
training on offer.

d) Financial Reporting and Audit

Financial statements for the project will be prepared annually by the FMA in collaboration with
PCU. The FMA will maintain an adequate                   accounting system that will facilitate proper
management o f project finances and generate correct and reliable financial statements in a timely
manner. The responsibility to prepare and submit audited annual financial statements to IDA in
time is vested inthe SC with support from the PCU. Auditedreports for the project will be due to
 IDA not later than six months after end of the financial year to which they relate incompliance
 with Financial Covenants on the Development Grant Agreement (DGA) and fulfilment o f the
 fiduciary requirement under OP/BP 10.02.


 5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
 5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment andEMPpreparation (including
 consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
 Giventhat the project content will consist o ftraining which will take place inpre-existing training
 institutions, the ARCAN project is not anticipated to have adverse environment effects. The
 project has beenclassified as Category C by the Africa SafeguardPolicies EnhancementTeam
 (ASPEN), as per OD 4.0 1.


 5.2 What are the mainfeatures o f the EMP and are they adequate?
 NIA
 5.3 For Category A andBprojects, timeline andstatus of EA:
                       Date o freceipt o f final draft:
 NIA
 5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
 report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
 o f consultation that were usedandwhich groups were consulted?


                                                       -18-

N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact ofthe project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults ofthe EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, andspecify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by improving the capacity level of health
care practitioners involved inthe designand delivery o f HIV/AIDS-related prevention, care, and
treatment services. The provision o f on-going professional support to health care providers i s
also likely to reduce staff attrition, which i s correlated with improved quality o f care and the
sustainability o fHIV/AIDS service delivery programs.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Key stakeholders ineachcountry have beendirectly involved inthe design andimplementation of
this project, Implementingpartners are anticipatedto include government healthcenters,
NGO/CBOprograms, andprivate sector entities, onthe basis o fclear eligibility and selection
criteria.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOsare among the project's implementingpartners andhave beeninvolvedinthe overall design
o fthe program, as well on the Steering Committee.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A Steering Committee constituted withbroadrepresentativeso fparticipatingcountries has been
formed and will serve as the overall governancebody for the proposed project.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
This will be assessedthrough on-going beneficiary assessments at various service delivery sites,
exit surveys onclient satisfaction inhealthcentersbeingsupported bythe project, andthrough
feedback from NGO/CBO technical andimplementing partners.


7. Safeguard Policies:




                                                                     I


                                                   - 19-

    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                       0Yes 0No
    CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)                                                  0Yes 0No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                    0Yes 0No
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP4.12)                                            0Yes 0     No
    SafetyofDams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                0  Yes 0 No
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters(OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                       0  Yes 0 No
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60,BP7.60, GP 7.60)*                            0Yes 0No

7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensurecompliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
NIA

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is likely to be sustainedto the extent that there is strong ownership, participation and
commitment from ARCAN countries. Iti s unlikelythat the Governments o fpartner countries
would be able to fully finance ARCAN inthe medium-term,and consequently it is expectedthat
multilateral, bilateral, andor private sector financing will be required for program continuation
andexpansionbeyondthe four-year implementationperiodo fthe project. The overallproject risk
i s considered to be substantial becauseo fthe multi-country nature of this project and its
innovative nature.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o fAnnex 1):

                                                   Risk Rating     I          Risk Mitigation Measure

                                                        S          The PCUwill provide regular updates o fthe
 weak duringproject implementation.                                program andprogress, throughout the project
                                                                   implementationperiod.

 Preventionactivities are not effectively               M          Continuedtechnical review ofthe
 linked to care, treatment, andsupport                             appropriateness andcontent o fprogram
             vided through ARCAN                                   curricula andfollow-up support and information
                                                                   to ARCAN "graduates"

                                                        S          Close monitoring ofprogram implementationin
                                                                   order to identify challenges early


 Transparency not maintainedinthe                       M          Development o f clear eligibility andselection
 selection of training institutions and                             criteria
 studentsbetweenandwithin participating
 countries
 Insufficient program coordinationbythe                 M           Development o fjointly agreedproject
 ARCAN Secretariat.                                                responsibilities, operating guidelines, and
                                                                   benchmarks.


                                                      - 20 -

Content o f training programs not routinely    M           Creationof a Technical Subcommittee to advise
updatedto reflect recent developments in                   the Steering Committee ofrelevant
HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment andcare.                    developments.

Highloss o fARCANgraduatesdue to                S          Provisiono f continuing education andgreater
"brain-drain"                                              recognition o fthe importance o f "master
                                                           trainers" innational capacity development
                                                           efforts

ARCAN graduates experience continued            S          Active monitoring o f graduate activitiesby the
delays/refusals from national authorities                  PCUandhaving this included inthe TOR for
uponthe submission of well-prepared                        one o f the Program Officers.
continuing TOT plans

Overall Risk Rating                             S          Intensiveimplementation support, inaddition to
                                                           regular monitoringand supervision activities.


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
The proposedproject hasbeen explicitly designedto complement, andnot substitute for, national
programs andinvestments inhealth sector humanresourcecapacity building. Giventhat Bank
support to ARCAN will be financed through an IDA grant, and the Kenya andEthiopia
country-specific MAP projects are financed through IDA credits, this raisesthe potential for
deliberate leakage and/or requeststhat purely national activities be integrated into this subregional
project. The Tanzania MAP, givenits relative recency, is fundedusing an IDA grant. However,
similar "leakage" concernscouldapply. Earlyandrepeatedclarificationto all concernedpartners
regarding the envisioned complementary nature o f the ARCAN project to these country-specific
MAP projects, should serve to limitthis possible challenge.


G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
The ARCAN Project'seffectiveness conditions include the following:
    a) The PCUhas beenestablishedwith the PCU Coordinator inplace.
    b) The Project Operations Manual, includingthe Project Implementation Plan, the Financial
    ProceduresManual, andthe Procurement Manual o fthe project, hasbeen adopted and is
    acceptableto IDA. (Note: the preparation o fthe Procurement Planfor Year One o f
    implementation was met as a condition for Negotiations).
    c) The Financial Management andProcurement Agency has been contracted following
    standardIDAprocedures.
    d) Terms ofReferencefor the ExternalAuditors havebeenfinalizedandare satisfactory to
    IDA.




                                              - 21 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used inthe LegalAgreements.]
NIA


H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
iXI 1.b)Not applicable.

[XI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start o f
       project implementation.
[XI 3. The Project Implementation Planhas beenappraisedandfound to be realistic ando f satisfactory
       quality.
[XI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):

Final Project Implementation PlanandOperations Manual (draft reviewed during Appraisal)

1.  Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.




 Sheila Dutta                             Dzingai Mutumbuka
 Team Leader                              Sector ManagedDirector




                                                    - 22 -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
 AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIWAIDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                                      and Care
                                     KeyPerformance            Data CollectionStrategy
                                         Indicators                                        CriticalAssumptions
                               iector Indicators:              iectorlcountry reports:   from Goalto Bank Mission)
Ensure access to basic health  i f e expectancy                h u a l UNDP Development  "tained Government
andsocial servicesbythe                                        report                    ommitment
poor.
                                                               World BankReports
                                                                                         luccessfulimplementation of
                                                                                         lublic sector, private sector,
                                                                                         ndcivil society development
                                                                                         trategies


ProjectDevelopment             3utcomeI Impact                 'roject reports:          FromObjectiveto Purpose)
Objective:                      ndicators:
Expandaccess to                increase inthe                  ?rojectProgressreports;   itrong public-private-civil
comprehensive and              iercenthumber of successful                               ociety partnership in
evidence-basedHIV/AIDS         4RCAN "graduates" (i.e.         rraining Reports from     1IV/AIDS-related human
prevention, care, and          hose who conduct at least the Winistries o f Health;      esourcecapacity developmenl
treatment programs by          ninimumrequired level of                                  :fforts
supporting a network o f       :ascade training inthe first    rraining Reports from
"leaming sites" for health care six months after their         Yational HIV/AIDS
practitioners                   preliminary training) whose    Zouncils/Commissions
                                zffectiveness was predicted on
                                the basis of the project's
                               student selection criteria
                                ratings, pre- andpost-course
                                testdevaluations, and/or
                                rating of training work plan
                               quality

                                Percentof service delivery     Project ProgressReports
                                points intrainee's country
                                with one (or more) primary
                                recipients o fARCAN
                                supported TOT training.

                                Increaseinlevel o fjob
                                satisfaction reportedby
                                ARCAN graduatesone year
                                after course completion.

                                (Note: Each o fthe above
                                outcome indicators will be
                                measuredannually)


 Outputfrom each                Output Indicators:             Projectreports:           [fromOutputsto Objective)
 Component:
 1) Health Care Practitioner    Increase inthe percent of      Project ProgressReports;  National commitment to


                                                           - 23-

                            iRCAN graduateswho                                         ipport training under
                            onduct one training session     pecial Surveys             RCANand its country-level
                            nthe first six months after                                intinuation
                            heir primary training (Le.
                            umberof "successful"
                            raduates inany given course
                            lividedbythe total number of
                            yaduates from the same
                            :ourse), as measuredannually
                            hrough training reports
                            ,ubmittedto the Project
                            Zoordination Unit.



                            rota1amount o f financial       'roject ProgressReports    imitedattrition among
                            esourcesmobilizedby                                        .RCAN graduates
                            \RCAN graduates (from
                            iational MAPSandlor other
                            iources) to conduct their
                            rOT-model training, as
                            neasured at 12 month
                            ntervals o fthe project.

                            2ualitative review o f the      ipecial Surveys            (imitedturn-over oftraining
                            support provided to ARCAN                                  taff within ARCAN training
                            naster trainers after                                      istitutions
                            :ompletion o f their primary
                            TOT course, including
                            resource mobilization, access
                            to training materials, contact
                            with relevant national andlor
                            intemational
                            technicaytraining entities,
                            participationin"refresher"
                             courses and conferences, etc.



2) Monitoring and Evaluation Increasesinthe number of       ?rogressReports;           LRCAN graduates remain
and Knowledge Sharing        training monitoring reports                                ommitted to continued
                             submitted to the PCUby          4nnual Work Plans          eaming and training
                             ARCAN graduates (compiled                                  ipportunities
                             annually)

                             Overall ARCAN Project           ProgressReports            %e presenceof effective
                             adjustments or fine-tuning                                 d&Efeedback loops
                             due to M&Einput                 SpecialStudies




3) Program Coordination      Project disbursements will      Project FinancialReports



                                                        - 24 -

                         ncreaseafter Year One o f
                         iroject implementation

                         Note: Eacho fthe above
                         iutputindicators will be
                         neasuredannually)
'roject ComponentsI      nputs: (budgetfor each      sroject reports:          from Componentsto
iub-components:          :omponent)                                            htputs)
)HealthCarePractitioner  JS$ 7.72 million            Llanagement information   Strongpolitical commitment
'raining                                             iystem;                   ?om authorities inARCAN
                                                                               :ountries
                                                     Reportsto ARCAN Steering
                                                     Zommittee



:)MonitoringandEvaluation JS$O.38 million             Management information   Strongand flexible
ndKnowledge Sharing                                   system;                  nulti-country and
                                                                               nulti-sectoralpartnerships
                                                      Reportsto ARCAN Steering ire established, as well as
                                                      Committee                .egular M&Eactivities




I)Program Coordination    JS$1.50million              Management information   Provision of intensive
                                                      system;                  implementation support and
                                                                               :oordination
                                                      Reportsto ARCAN Steering
                                                      Committee




Jnallocated               JS$0.40 million




                                                  - 25 -

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AFRICA: African RegionalCapacity BuildingNetworkfor HlVlAlDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                                and Care
The ARCAN project componentswill consist o fthe following:

By Component:

ProjectComponent 1 US$7.72million
                     -
Health carepractitioner training. The projectwill support the development o f short-term,
non-diploma, training courses for health care professionals at various levels, includingphysicians,
nurses, counselor supervisors, laboratory technicians, and HIV/AIDSprogram managers. All
programs will follow the training-oftrainers (TOT) approachinorder to maximize the impact o f
this capacity-building project. As part o f its continuing education emphasis, ARCAN will explore
options for distance learning to maximize resourcesand to ensure a broader regional approach for
sharing experiences and enhancing skills. Details regardingthe training institutions proposed to
be contracted as part of ARCAN's Year One ImplementationPlan are presentedinAdditional
Annex 14. The Project Operations Manual delineates all other aspectso fthe Year One Training
Program.

Importantly, while the mission team anticipates a significant demand for capacity buildinginthe
areaof antiretroviral treatment, especially duringthe first year o fthe project, itwas
acknowledged that the project would also specifically address capacity needs inthe area o f
prevention. It is consequently agreedthat the ARCAN Steering Committee would take
responsibility o fmaintaining a balance betweentraining opportunities inpreventive, treatment,
andprogrammanagement areas to ensure that this project addressesgaps, as deemed appropriate,
 across the prevention and care continuum. A similar approach will be adoptedto obtain an
 appropriate balance betweentraining opportunities inmedical areas andthose courses that offer
 HIV/AIDS-related training from the perspective o f other sectors/areas.


 ProjectComponent2 US$0.38million
                      -
 Monitoring and evaluation and knowledgesharing. The proposedproject will prioritize the
 establishment of a system o fmonitoring and evaluation (M&E) that would enablethe rapid
 synthesis andsharing o f lessons and also their application to the continued strengthening o fthe
 program. HIV/AIDScare i s a rapidly changing area o fclinical practice. Routine dissemination o f
 information and linkages to experts inthe field o f HIV/AIDS are needed. Ifsuch efforts are not
 afforded a highpriority, efforts to provide training andeducation to health care providers are
 largely ineffective as individuals are limitedfrom acquiring new information ina fieldundergoing
 rapid change.


 ProjectComponent3 US$1.50 million
                      -
 Program coordination. This component would support the development o f strong coordination
 betweenARCAN'S institutional and implementing entities, inaddition to the out-sourced project
 contractors. The major focus o fthis component would involve providingthe PCUwith support
 to conduct its administrative, fiduciary, and technical responsibilities.


                                                  - 26 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AFRICA. African Regional Capacity Building Networkfor HlVlAlDS Prevention, Treatment,
                                                              and Care




  2. M&E/ KnowledgeSharing                                                                        0.38                    0.00                  0.38
  3. ProjectCoordinatingUnit                                                                      1.32                    0.17                  1.49
  Total BaselineCost                                                                              8.15                    1.45                  9.60
    PhysicalContingencies                                                                         0.00                    0.00                  0.00
    Price Contingencies                                                                           0.36                    0.04                  0.40
                                            Total Proiect Cost:                                   8.51                    1.49                 10.00
                                    Total Financing Required
 ~~                                                                                               8.51                    1.49                 10.00

                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                               Local                  Foreign                  Total
                           ProjectCost By Category                                           US$million             US$million             US$million
   Goods                                                                                             0.00                      0.07                0.07
   Works                                                                                             0.03                      0.00                0.03
   Services                                                                                          2.17                      1.46                3.63
   Training                                                                                          5.82                      0.00                5.82
   Incrementalsalaries                                                                               0.06                      0.00                0.06
   Operatingcosts                                                                                    0.39                      0.00                0.39
                                                           Total Project Cost:                       8.47                      1.53               10.00
                                                  Total Financing Required                           8.47                      1.53               10.00

     I
      Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US%m)andthe totalproject cost, netoftaxes, is 10(US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratiois 100%oftotal
     project costnetoftaxes.




                                                                      - 27 -

                         Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis
AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Network for HlVlAlDS Prevention, Treatment,
                                     and Care



 NotApplicable

                              Annex 5: Financial Summary
AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Network for HlVlAlDS Prevention, Treatment,
                                      and Care
                                    Years Ending
                                        2008
                                  (in US$ Millions)



                       [ Year1 1 Year2    I  Year3   IYear4    I Year5    1 Year6   IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 ProjectCosts
  Investment Costs          1.7       2.4         2.3       3.1       0.0       0.0     0.0
 RecurrentCosts             0.1       0.1         0.1       0.1       0.0       0.0     0.0
Total ProjectCosts           1.8      2.5         2.4       3.2       0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Financing              1.8      2.5         2.4       3.2       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                  1.8      2.5         2.4       3.2       0.0       0.0      0.0
   Government               0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
      Central               0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
      Provincial            0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Other                        0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total ProjectFinancing       1.8      2.5         2.4       3.2       0.0       0.0     -0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                          - 29 -

                           Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
AFRICA. African Regional Capacity Building Networkfor HlVlAlDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                           and Care

 Procurement
 General

 1.     The three participating countries are inthe processo fimplementingprocurement reforms
 intended to make their national procurement systems more economic, efficient, transparent and
 accountable.

 ProcurementProcedures

 2.     All civil works and goods would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines:
 Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, "May 2004" and the provisions stipulated in
 the Development GrantAgreement (DGA). All procurement o f consultant services would be done
 in accordance with "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
 Recipients, "May 2004 and the provisions inthe DGA." Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals
 and evaluation forms would be used where practicable. The general description of various items
 under differentexpenditure category are describedbelow. For eachcontract to be financedby the
 Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
 prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
 the Recipient and the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be
 updated at least semi-annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
 and improvements in institutional capacity. These updates will be approved by the Steering
 Committee.

 3.     A GeneralProcurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory andmustbepublishedinthe UN
 Development Business andthe dg Market, and ina national newspaper o fwide circulation as
 providedunderthe Guidelines, immediately after negotiations. Expressions o f Interest for
 consultancy services estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$200,000 and above will also be
 publishedinthe Development Business anddgMarket. Details ofproject costsbyprocurement
 arrangements are presentedinTable A.

 4.     Monitoring and evaluation o fprocurement performance will be carried out through annual
 ex-post procurement audits and regular ad-hoc reviews. Such audits would: (a) verify that the
 procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed were in accordance with the
 DGA; (b) review and comment on contract administration and management issues as dealt with
 by the PCU; (c) review PCU capacity in handling procurement efficiently; and (d) identify
  improvements inthe procurement process inthe light o fany identifieddeficiencies.




                                                - 30 -

InstitutionalArrangements

5.      A small Project CoordinationUnit(PCU), offive full-timeprofessional staff, will havethe
responsibility for the coordination o f all ARCAN activities. Itwill be located inthe Prime
Minister's Office. Since the financiallprocurement managementagency (FMA) will be
out-sourced, a full time procurement specialist may not be requiredbutthe Projector Coordinator
will needto have adequateexperience inprocurement to coordinate the work o fthe FMA. The
PCUreports to the Steering Committee, and is responsible for the daily management and
coordination o fthe overall program. The PCUwill operate as an autonomous body. The ARCAN
Project Coordinator (i.e. the PCUhead) will act ex-officio as Secretary o fthe Steering
Committee. The Steering Committee will select the head o f the PCUand the four PCUProgram
Officers basedon a competitive process to which candidates from all ARCAN countries are
invitedto apply. Whenever possible, the project will contract-out tasksrather than building
in-house capacity. As a result, a numbero fkey project management functions will be contracted
out by the PCUto independent firms, agencies and/or independent consultants onthe basiso f
one-year, renewable, performance-basedcontracts except for the FMAwhich will initially be for
two years, inaccordancewith Bank guidelines. This out-sourcing will include financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, the annual audit, and specific technical
assessments. The role o fthe Steering Committee inthe procurement process would be to
approve the procurement plan. Contract awards will be done by a management committee in
accordancewith the Procurement Manual. The Procurement Manual would be approvedby IDA
as part o fthe Operational Manual. The Manualwould beready by GrantEffectiveness.

ProcurementCapacityAssessment

6.       The PCUhas yet to be establishedandhenceits procurement capacity cannot beassessed
at the moment. However, procurement o fthe Facilitatorand the Project Coordinator will require
some procurement experience on the part o fthe PrimeMinister's staff charged with recruiting
these consultants. The two consultants will be employed under the Project PreparationFacility
which is beingexecutedby the PMO's Office. There is currently a Senior Supplies Officer (SSO)
inthe PMOwho isthe headofthe ProcurementUnitand Secretaryto the MinisterialTender
Board. The SSO i s familiar with the Tanzania Procurement Regulations but he has not been
involved inBank financed projects before. The SSO will be responsible for carrying out the
day-to-day procurement process inaccordance with Bankprocedures. Given his experiencewith
the Tanzania Government Regulations which are basedonthe Bank Guidelines, he should be able
to managethe process but he may need some assistance from procurement specialist inBank
financed projects withinthe PMO's Office suchas TACAIDS. The process o frecruiting the
FMA andthe other PCUstaff will start immediately after the Project Coordinator is recruited.
 Once recruited, the FMA will be responsible for carrying out procurement inaccordance with the
Procurement Manual. The FMA would therefore have at least one procurement specialist with
 qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. Since some procurement will be done
 evenbefore the FMA is inplace, the procurement risk inthe project is beingassessed as highand
 the thresholds for prior review have been set onthe basis o fthis. The risk factor is expectedto
 decline to mediumafter the appointment o f an FMA. This risk situation will be reassessedafter
 one year.


                                                - 31 -

7.      A review ofthe procurement recordkeeping system was made. Althoughthe SSO is
familiar with the principles o fprocurement filing there are no filing facilities such as space;
cabinets andfolders. These facilities will have to be made available and separate files have to be
opened for this project. All the files will be passedto the PCU upon its establishment.

            ProcurementMethodsfor Works, Goods, and ConsultingAssignments

CivilWorks

8.      The civil works to be includedinthis project would be small andgenerally o frehabilitation
nature such as rehabilitation o fthe PCU office. These works may be procuredunderlump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified
domestic contractors invitedinwriting to bid. The invitation shall include a detaileddescription
o fthe works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, abasic form o f
agreementacceptableto IDA, andrelevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made
to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, provided they
demonstrate they have the experience andresourcesto complete the contract successfully.

Goods

9.      The project will finance one vehicle, office equipment and furniture for the PCU.
Contracts for these goods and other small quantities o f office supplies and consumable materials
which are available locally at economical prices would beprocured through national shopping
procedures based onprice quotations from at least three reliable suppliers.

Consultancy Services

 10.     The total cost o fconsultant services andtraining is estimated at US$9.2 million
equivalent. The consultancy services requiredwould cover financial managementagency, travel
bureau, technical services agency, monitoringand evaluation, PCU staffand audit. All consulting
 service contracts costing more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent for f m s will be awarded through
 Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts estimatedto
 cost less than US$lOO,OOO for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications
 Selection (CQS) method. For contracts o f a routine nature estimatedto cost less than
 US$lOO,OOO and where well establishedpractices andstandards exist suchas financial audits,
 Least-Cost Selection (LCS) methodmay be used. All services o f individual consultantswill be
 procuredunder individual contracts inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraphs5.1 to 5.3 o f
 the Guidelines. Although the service contracts will be renewed on annualbasis, depending onthe
 satisfactory performance o fthe consulting fm,the selection method would be basedon the
 estimated contract value of the assignmentover the four year period. Most o fthe assignments are
 therefore expected to bephased. Inexceptional cases, Single-Source selection would be used in
 accordance with the provisions o fparagraphs3.9 to 3.13. To this effect, services o fthe technical
 services agency estimated to cost US$330,000 equivalent may, with the Association's prior




                                                 - 32 -

agreement, be procured on single-source basis.

11.    To ensure that priority i s givento the identificationo f suitable andqualified national
consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 or equivalent may be
comprised entirely o fnational consultants from the three participating countries providedthat a
maximum o ftwo firms come from one country. However, if foreign f m s outside these three
countries have expressedinterest, they will not be excluded from consideration.

Training

12.     Training, the core activity of this project, estimated to cost US$5.8 million (58% o ftotal
project cost), will be carried out by carefully selectedinstitutions inthe three countries. The
Quality Based Selection (QBS) method will be used for the selection process.

OperatingCosts

13.     Operating costs which would be financed under the project would beprocured usingthe
Government's Procurement Regulations which have beenreviewedand found acceptable to IDA.


ProcurementPlanning

14.     The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This planhas been agreedbetweenthe
Recipient and the Project Team on May 11,2004 and is available at PMO's Office. Itwill also be
available inthe Project's database. The Procurement Planwill be updatedinagreementwith the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Prior Review

15.     Table B provides the prior review thresholds. There will be no contracts subject to prior
review for works and goods. All consulting contracts costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for
f m s will be subject to IDAprior review. With respect to eachcontract for employment o f
individual consultants estimatedto cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms o freference and terms o f employment o fthe consultants shall be fknished to
IDA for its priorreview.Inaddition, all single-source selectionofconsultantsandany exceptional
extensions to non-prior review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the
prior review thresholds will be subject to prior review.




                                                  - 33 -

Procurementmethods(TableA)


                         Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                            (US$ millionequivalent)




  Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

21Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, training, technical
  assistanceservices, and incremental operating costs.
Note:     Figures above are the amounts to be financed by the IDA grant at 100percent.

Not Applicable

Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review


    ExpenditureCategory   ContractValue
                          Threshold(US$)
 1. Works (small          All
rehabilitationworks)



IFirms                    US$100,000 andover

                          Lessthan
                          us$100,000

                          Less than
                          us$100,000        LCS               None(Ex-Post)    LCSto beusedfor contractso f
                                                                               aroutine naturewhere well
                                                                               establishedpracticesand
I                                                                              standards exist suchas fmancial
                          US$50,000 andover                                    audits



                                                       - 34 -

I                                                           /*u             I
I                     I
 Individuals          p                  IICs
                           thanus$so,ooo
I                                        II
                                          ICs                None(Ex-Post)
                      1All

                                          Single-Source      All
 Firmsfindividuals
-4.                                        Single-Source
   Training            USS100,OOO andover QBS                All

                       Less than
                       us.$100,000         QBS               None (EX-Post)




                            Table C OVERALLRISKASSESSMENT
                                      -
                                                     H I G H

                                     Referto Paragraphs6 above.

 PriorReview Thresholds:

 Works                                                      No contracts

 Goods                                                       No contracts

  Consultancy Services (Firms)                             US$lOO,OOO equivalent

  Consultancy Services (Individuals)                       US$50,000 equivalent


  Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionproposed:Once every 6 months. Inaddition
  ad-hoc reviewdaudits will be carried out.


                  TableD ActionPlanfor Mitigatingthe HighProcurementRisk
                          -




                                                        - 35 -

            Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
AFRICA: African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIVIAIDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                              and Care

Financial Manapement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
Financial management arrangement

The project's financial managementcapacity assessmentfor the project was not necessaryfor this
project inview o fthe fact that its implementation will be coordinated by a newly established
Project Coordinating Unit(PCU), which will out source the financial managementand
procurement service to a Financial Management and Procurement Agent (FMA). Beinga
sub-regional project involving three countries, it is prudent for the management o fthe project to
be free o f any direct or indirect o f government financialprocedures and control. The financial
managementpolicies, regulations andprocedures governing project finances have been
documented inthe Project Financial and Procurement ProceduresManual (PFPPM) specifically
prepared(prior to effectiveness) to meet the operational needs ofthe project. The Project
Coordinator (PC) as the chief executive officer o f the project will be assistedto manage the
financial andprocurement affairs o fthe project by one o fthe Program Offices (PO-F) with
appropriate financial management qualification, competence and experience, as detailedinthe
Terms o f Reference (TOR). The PO-F will be the technical officer inthe PCUresponsible for
supervising the FMA andadvising the PC on all financial andprocurement mattersunderthe
project. The detailed structure o fthe PCUi s documented inthe PFPPM. Similarly, the TOR will
also contain detailed areas o f responsibilities for the FMA.An annual performance basedcontract
will be enteredinto betweenthe PCUandthe FMA, which will spell out the obligations and
deliverables o fthe FMA as well as the consideration (cost) for the service. The TOR for the FMA
will specify the numberofkey staff andtheir required qualification, periodo frelevant experience
andareas ofcompetence. There will regular interaction betweenPCU andFMAinthe normal
course o fproject implementation. The primaryresponsibility ofthe FMA will be disbursement o f
project fhds to approved institutions deliveringthe courses inthe sub-region, contracted service
providers, selectedtrainee from the member countries attending courses and other suppliers o f
miscellaneous goods for use by PCU. The FMA will be reporting to the PCU on the financial and
procurement status as well the physical implementation progress o fthe project on a quarterly
basis, usingthe Financial MonitoringReporting (FMR) formats illustrated inthe PFPPM

Flow of Funds:

The project will be financed with the IDA funds from the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP)
Grant. The grant funds will be maintained inWorld Bank, Washington DC inthe Grant Account
for the project. The project will have the necessary capacity to disburse Grant proceedsusingthe
report based disbursement approach (Financial Monitoring Reports) from the outset on becoming
effective. To facilitate the first withdrawal o f Grant proceeds to support project implementation,
the PCU will open a Special Account to be maintained in U S Dollars in a commercial bank
satisfactory to IDA and preferably inthe host country (Tanzania). Soon after Grant effectiveness,
PCU will submit to IDA a withdrawal application (Form 1903-B) for the initial deposit o f the


                                                   - 36 -

authorized Special Account advance, based on the projected plan o f activities (work plan and
budget) and a cash forecast for the initial six months period. All subsequent withdrawal o f Grant
proceeds shall be triggered by approved projected plan o f activities and cash forecast constituting
the FMR to be submitted to IDA within 45 days after the end o f each quarter. Inaddition to the
PCU accessing the Grant proceeds through the Special Account, PCU will also have the
opportunity to used Direct Payment method o f disbursement where appropriate. However, this
method will be rarely usedunderthis project inview o fthe nature o fthe project.

To facilitate smooth implementation o f the project, the project will have a Project Account
maintained inlocal currency (Tanzanian Shilling) ina commercial bank acceptable to IDA which
will be managed by the FMA and used for the purpose o f meeting local eligible project
expenditures, mainly relating to operating costs. Inthis regard, the PCU will transfer funds on a
need basis from the Special Account to the Project Account in accordance with agreed
procedures, and cashforecast for a givenperiod. This will ensure that the value o f project funds i s
not exposed to the risk o f exchange loss due to erratic exchange rates for the U S Dollar. Project
funds neededto settle any eligibleexpenditures incurredunder the projectwill be disbursedbythe
FMA either from the Special Account ifthe payment is to a foreign provider of services or goods
or from the Project Account in local currency to national supplier or provider o f services in
compliance with business practice and laws o f the host country. The FMA will periodically
(quarterly) compile all the expenditure data and information under the project and prepare FMRs
at end o f each quarter and submit the FMRto the PCU to review and authorize the FMR and the
accompanying withdrawal application supported by the relevant cash forecast for the next period
o f six months all o f which are submitted to IDA to trigger further flow o f funds to the project,
The low chart below illustrates the channel funds will follow as well as the information flow.

The implementation responsibility of the ARCAN project is vested in the Steering Committee
 (SC) with the support o f the PCU which has contracted the FMA to provide the technical support
 inthe managementof ARCAN project finances. Based on this framework, the PCU will work
 closely and in collaboration with the FMA to ensure the FMA maintains an adequate accounting
 system that will provide reliable and correct financial information on the project in a timely
 manner. This services of the FMA meeting this requirement is therefore a critical element inthe
 financial management arrangement infblfilment o f the fiduciary requirement under OP/BP 10.02.
 The FMA will therefore use a suitable accounting software for the project that will facilitate
 timely reporting of project activities at end of each quarter. To this end, the system will be
 designedwith a view to being capable o f managing the project data and information and generate
 the FMRs and any other reports required. Indesigningthe accounting system for the project, care
 will be takento ensure it remains simple and practical and will be expected to interface with the
 informationmanagementsystem inthe PCU. Extra effort will also be made by the PCUto linkthe
 financial information management system with the Monitoring and Evaluation system to draw
 synergy in the two systems which will be o f tremendous value to the PC and SC for decision
 making.

 The PCU will also be responsible for overseeing the work o f the FMA and in collaboration with
 the FMA, ensure project annual financial statements are prepared andpresented before the Audit
 Sub-committee, for review and sanctioning inreadiness for audit. The PCU will with the support


                                                - 37 -

of the Audit Sub-committee ensure the SC complies with its fiduciary responsibility of submitting
the audited annual project financial statements to the IDA in a timely manner l l f i l m e n t o f the
Financial Covenant on audit set out in Article IV of the Development Grant Agreement (DGA)
for the project.

           AdministrativeandFinancialFlows




            \G
    IDA Disbursements                                                           I
    Division                                                         IDADisbursements
                                                                     Division



                     aoolication                  statements
                                                                                     [SpecialAccount 1
                                                                                       replenishments
                                                    Ministry                         L
                       Submission o f               Finance
                                                  I                 O f )I       1


                                                                              PCU
                                                                        Special Account
                                                                                 a
                                                                          FMAProject
                  623   withdrawal




                                                          Institutions                  (consultants,
                                                                                       overheads, etc.)


 2. Audit Arrangements

 The SC with the assistance of PCU shall appoint a qualified andcompetent Auditor for the project, who
 shall be engagedannually to undertake the audit ofthe project inaccordancewith the Intemational
 StandardsonAudit. The PCUwill prepare TOR satisfactory to IDA for the auditor prior to effectiveness.



                                                   -38 -

The SC with the supportof the PCUwill ensure that audited annual project financial statementsto the
IDAnot later thansix months after the endofthe financial year to which theyrelate incompliance
with the FinancialCovenant on audit set out inArticle IV o fthe Development Grant Agreement
(DGA) for the project.


3. DisbursementArrangements

         Use of Financial Management Reports (FMRs)

This beinga sub-regional project, inwhich case most o fthe transactionswill be inrelationto
training o ftrainers courses mounted by selectedinstitutions inthe three ARCAN countries,
majority o fpayments will be disbursed inforeign currency against contracts enteredinto by the
institutions and the PCU. Iti s therefore envisagedthat funds inthe Special Account will largely be
used to pay cost o ftraining deliveredfrom outside the UnitedRepublic o f Tanzania. Payment o f
local suppliers for general services and few goods as well as minor civil work costs, will be in
local currency, through the Project Account. Iti s highlyunlikely that use o f Direct Payment
methodandor Special Commitments will beneededunder the project.

The use o f FMRsunder the project will require the FMA andthe PCU staff to be trained on the
concept and nature o f FMRs. To this end, IDA will organize anddeliver the training as soon as
the PCU staff and the FMA staff are inplace, preferably at a time close to Grant effectiveness, to
facilitate immediate application o fthe acquired skills. Capacity buildingsupport from IDA will
continue as neededeven after effectiveness, to help FMA and PCUperfect their skills. FMR
relateddisbursementutilizes h d s inthe Special Account. The authorized amount o fthe Special
Account advance will bebasedonthe projected planned activities and cashforecast for the initial
six months ofproject implementation after the Grantbecomes effective. However, the authorized
amount o fthe advance will be subject to a maximum o f 20 percent o fthe Grant amount in
 accordance with DisbursementPolicy governing use o f FMRsfor disbursement.

 Allocation of grant proceeds(Table C)
 The projectwill disburse Grant processunderthe reportbased approach, FMR as stated above.
 The disbursementprofile is basedon estimated levelof funds requiredeachyear to meetproject
 needs duringthe implementation periodo f four years. The profile hasbeen estimatedwithin the
 expectation that the Grant will be declared effective inthe second quarter o fFY 2005 andthat the
 implementation will follow the planned schedule andend intime after the four year period. A
 table showing the allocation o fthe IDA grant is provided below.




                                                 - 39 -

                              Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

         ExpenditureCategory            IAmount    in US$milllon 1        FinancingPercentage         1
1. Goods                                            0.06                            100
2. Works                                            0.03                            100
3. Services                                         3.30                            100
4. Training                                         5.24                            100
5. IncrementalSalaries                              0.06                            100
6. ODeratinP Cost                                   0.35                            100
7. PPFRefinancing                                   0.00                            100
8. Unallocated                                      0.96
Total ProjectCostswith Bank                        10.00
Financing
Total                                               10.00

All countries have providedletters indicating that ARCAN Project expenditures would be
tax-exemptinaccordancewithnational laws. Withregard to fuel and lubricants under category 6
(operating costs), the Government o f Tanzania advised that there would also be a tax exemption.
The project would pay the full 100percent cost o ffuel and lubricants andwould bereimbursedby
the Ministryo fFinance upon submission o fthe relevant documentation

The Government o fTanzania advised that the PCUstaffwould beregarded as consultants to the
project as per standardTanzania protocol. Therefore, there would be no tax implications on
salaries.

Resource Management

Project resources will not be allocated separately to each of the countries (i.e. no separate Kenya
subcomponent, Ethiopia subcomponent, etc.). However, it i s envisaged that benefits from the
project will accrue equitably to nominated students coming from the member countries, who will
attend the courses and learningeventsunderthe project.

Counterpart Funding

The design o f this project does not call for cash contributions from the different governments.
However, as per Bank standard procedures, the governments are providing in-kindcontributions
to the project in the provision o f staff time (of the involved public sector health professionals
involved as trainees), the use o f existing training facilities, and national-level coordination and
dissemination o f informationwithinthe M O HandNACC structures.

 During project preparation, the Bank discussed with the respective Ministries of Finance the
 subject o ftaxes and duties on expendituresto be incurred under the grant (Note: Taxes envisaged
 for Kenya and Ethiopia refer to taxes imposed on ARCAN contracts with training institutions



                                                - 4 0 -

only;     while taxes envisaged for Tanzania, where the PCU is physically located, refer to taxes
imposed on the purchase o f goods and services for the PCU, inaddition to ARCAN contracts to
Tanzanian training institutions). The Government o f Tanzania has clearly indicated that ARCAN
expenditures for goods and services, as well as for oil and lubricants, would be tax exempted.
Similarly, both the Governments o f Ethiopia and Kenya indicated that, as in the case o f the
national M A P projects, contracts with training institutions will be tax exempted. Based on the
above, the grant agreement would indicate that the project would be tax exempted and that the
Schedule I(disbursement schedule) should be articulated to reflect 100 percent Bank financing
throughout.

Financial Risks


                  Risk                        Rating               I      MitigatinpMeasures
  VIA    selectedfails to deliver                                  i.FMAwill have anannual
     rvices effectively and                      L                 performancebased
     'fciently as expected                                         contract which provides an exit
                                                                    strategy inthe event
                                                                   performance i s unsatisfactory. A
                                                                   new FMA will be selected.
                                                                    Meanwhile, the Program Officer
                                                                    for finance inthe PCUwill play
                                                                    stop-gap role.
                                                                    ii.FMA andPCU staffwill
                                                                    receive training on FMRs in
                                                                    clinics to be facilitated by IDA
                                                                    iii.Projectlaunchworkshopwill
                                                                    helpclarify roles andhelp to
                                                                    clarify issues specific to funding
                                                                    o fIDA supported projects

       Use o f Grant proceeds for                 L                 i.Quality o f PCUi s o fhigh
         ineligibleexpenditures                                     integrity and solid qualification
                                                                    andexperience. All PCUstaff
                                                                    will have annualperformance
                                                                    basedcontract, which allow for
                                                                    termination where performance
                                                                    i s unsatisfactory or
                                                                    inappropriate.
                                                                    ii.Use o f FMAwill substantially
                                                                    minimize opportunity for misusc
                                                                    o f funds
                                                                    iii.Review o fFMRson quarter11
                                                                    basis willhelp flash out any
                                                                    misuse o fproject funds and



                                                - 4 1-

                                       ineligible expendituresandallow
                                       corrective measuresto be taken
                                       at an early stage at anearly
                                       stage.
Audit Reports are delayed     L        i.Private independent and
                                       competent auditor will be
                                       engaged
                                       ii.AuditSub-committee will be
                                       inplace andactive from
                                       inceptionofthe project to
                                       supervisefinancial affairs o fthe
                                       project andoversee the audit
                                       process andimplementation of
                                       auditor's recommendations in
                                       the management letter




                             - 42 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Networkfor HlVlAlDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                           and Care


 ProjectSchedule                                          Planned                        Actual
 ITimetaken to preparethe project(months)     II       12                    1I       10                 I
                                                                                                      ~
  First Bank mission (identification)                  0611112003                     0611112003
 Appraisal mission departure                           04/19/2004                     04/19/2004
 INegotiations                                I        05/07/2004            I        05/07/2004         I
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                         12131I2004

 Prepared by:
 Representatives from the NationalHIV/AIDSCouncildCommissions of Tanzania, Kenya, and
 Ethiopia
 Representatives from the Ministry of Health, National HIV/AIDSControl Programs of Tanzania,
 Kenya, and Ethiopia

 Representatives from the Ministry o f Finance of Tanzania, Kenya, andEthiopia
 Representatives from National HIV/AIDSCivil Society Organizations of Tanzania, Kenya, and
 Ethiopia
 Office ofthe Prime Minister, United Republic of Tanzania

 Preparationassistance:
 UNAIDS (Technical assistance); WHO (Technical assistance); USAID (Technical assistance);
 CDC/GAP (Technical assistance)



 FI
  Bank staff who worked on the projecl included:
          Name

  Sheila Dutta                          Senior Health SpecialistlTask Team Leader (AFTHl)


  LuigideFelice                         Financial Management Specialist (Consultant)
  JohnNyaga                             Senior Financial Management Specialist (AFTHV)
  A. Waafas Ofosu-Amaah                 Senior Gender Specialist (PRMGE)
  Susan stout                           LeadMonitoring& Evaluation Specialist (HDNGA)
  DirkPrevoo                            Operations Officer (AFTR2)
  Elizabeth Lule                        Adviser (HDNHE)
  Albertus Voetberg                     Lead Health Specialist (AFTHl) & TTL, Kenya M A P Project
  Emmanuel Malangalila                  Senior Health Specialist (AFTHl) & TTL, Tanzania M A P Project
  Anwar Bach-Baouab                     Lead Operations Officer (AFTH3) & TTL, Ethiopia M A P Project
  GebreselassieOkubagzhi                Senior Health Specialist (AFTH3)
  Karen Hudes                           Senior Counsel (LEGAF)


                                                 -43-

Pascale Dubois                     Senior Counsel (LEGAF)
Elizabeth Adu                      Ieputy General Counsel, Operations (LEGVP)
JohnCameron                        ?inancia1Management Specialist (Consultant)
Abbas Kesseba                      hstitutionalArrangement Specialist (Consultant)
Steve Gaginis                      Finance Officer (LOAG2)
Rogati Kayani                      LeadProcurementSpecialist(AFTPC)
Mercy Sabai                        Senior Financial ManagementSpecialist (AFTFM)
DonaldMneney                       Procurement Analyst (AFTPC)
KelvinBillinghurst                 Monitoring& Evaluation Specialist (Consultant)
Keith Hansen                       Manager, ACTafiica (AFTHV)
Shiyan Chao                        Senior Health Economist (ECSHD)
Cassandrade Souza                  OperationsAnalyst (AFTHV)
Therese Cruz                       ProgramAssistant (AFTHV)
Nadege Thadey                      ProgramAssistant (AFTTR)
EvelyneKapya                       ProgramAssistant (AFC04)



Peer Reviewers:

Chris Walker                       Lead Specialist (AFTH1)
Bachir Souhlal                     LeadSocial Development Specialist (MNSRE)
Debrework Zewdie                   Director, GlobalAIDS Unit(HDNGA)
JonathanBrown                      Operations Adviser (AFTQK)




Developmentpartners involved inproject preparation:
Jacob Gayle (Senior Technical Adviser, CDC/GAP on secondmentto UNAIDS, Geneva)
KristanSchoultz (UNAIDS Country Coordinator, Kenya)
Bruce Waring (Technical Network Development Adviser, UNAIDS,Geneva)
Bernadette Olowo-Freers (UNAIDS Country Coordinator, Tanzania)
Matshidiso Moeti(Regional HIV/AIDS Adviser, WHO/AFRO, Harare)
Catherine McGnney (Team Leader, Training Activities, CDC/GAP, Atlanta)
MaryPatKieffer (Regional PMTCT Adviser, USAIDREDSO, Nairobi).




                                             - 44 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Network for HlVlAlDS Prevention, Treatment,
                                              and Care


 A. ProjectImplementationPlan
 Draft datedApril 30,2004

 B. Bank Staff Assessments
 Economic Assessment of MAP Projects August 2000
 Project Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet January 2003
                                        - -

 C. Other


 World Bank ProjectConcept Document June 2003
                                        -
 World Bank PreparationMissionBack-to-Office Report
 World Bank PreparationMissionBack-to-Office Report October 2003
                                                         -- June2003

 World BankPre-Appraisal MissionBack-to-Office Report       - December2003
 World BankPreparationMissionBack-to-Office Report        - March2003
 World Bank Appraisal MissionAide-Mkmoire      - May   2004

 ProjectFinancial ManagementManual     - draft - April 2003
 Project Monitoringand Evaluation Manual    - draft - April 2003

 TanzaniaNationalMulti-Sectoral Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS
 Tanzania Ministryof Health, NationalHIV/AIDS Strategic Plan
 Zanzibar HIV/AIDS StrategicPlan
 KenyaNationalMulti-Sectoral Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS
 Ethiopia National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS
 TechnicalNote on the Use of Antiretrovirals inTanzania
 Guidelinesonthe Use ofAntiretrovirals inKenya

 *Including electronic files




                                                    -45-

                                         Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
AFRICA: African RegionalCapacity BuildingNetworkfor HlVlAlDSPrevention,Treatment, and Care
                                                               19-Jul-2004
                                                                                                                         Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                   OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD       IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO74020     2004 PublicSectorCapacityBuildingProgram               0.00    100.00                  0.00     0.00     96.33       0.00      0.00
PO76735     2004 Water Supplyand SanitationProject                 0.00    75.00                   0.00     0.00     96.05       0.00      0.00
PO44613     2003 ET RoadSector DevelopmentProgramII                0.00     0.00                   0.00     0.00     131.61      1.68      0.00
PO49395     2003 ETHIOPIA-ENERGY ACCESS                            0.00    132.70                  0.00     0.00     145.40     49.72      0.00
PO50938     2003 CapacityBuildingfor Dec.Serv.Del.                 0.00    26.20                   0.00     0.00     28.87      15.45      0.00
PO75915     2003 ET PastoralCommunityDevelopment                   0.00     0.00                   0.00     0.00     29.44       0.23      0.00
PO81773     2003 EMERGENCYDROUGHTRECOVERYPROJECT                   0.00     0.00                   0.00     0.00      15.95      1.48      0.00
PO57770     2002 ET CULTURALHERITAGE                               0.00     5.00                   0.00     0.00       5.38      1.56      0.00
PO50383     2002 Ethiopia:FOODSECURITYPROJECT                      0.00     85.00                  0.00     0.00     91.77       *7.98     0.00
PO73196     2001 ET:Demobilizationand ReintegrationProj            0.00    170.60                  0.00     0.00     34.14      27.34      0.00
PO69686     2001 MultisectoralHIV/AIDS                             0.00     59.70                  0.00     0.00     29.42      44.09      0.00
PO69063     2001 AFTKL: ETGLOBALDISTANCELEARNING                   0.00     4.90                   0.00     3.14       2.13      5.24      -0.02
PO67084     2001 EMERGENCYRECOVERYAND REHAB. PROJECl               0.00    230.00                  0.00     0.00      90.21     70.07      0.00
PO35147     2001 ET C0NSERV.a SUSTAIN. USE MEDIC.PLAN              0.00      0.00                  1.a0     0.02       1.55       1.20      0.00
PO50342     2001 Women Dev. Initiatives                            0.00      5.00                  0.00     0.00       3.42       1.71      0.91
PO52315     2001 ET:CONSERVATIONOF MEDICINALPLANTS                 0.00      2.60                  0.00     0.00       1.90      -0.95      0.00
PO00756     1999 HealthSector Dev.                                 0.00    100.00                  0.00     0.00      21.61      19.22      0.00
PO00755     1998 ETHIOPIAROADSEC. DEV. PROG.                       0.00    309.20                  0.00     0.00      47.27     48.71      42.32
PO00736     1998 ET ENERGYII                                       0.00    200.00                  0.00     0.00      16.72      20.44      0.00
PO00733     1998 ET:AG. RESEARCH TRAINING
                                     a                             0.00     60.00                  0.00     0.00      16.55      14.77      0.00
PO00771     1996 Social Rehab.(ESRDFI)                             0.00    120.00                  0.00     11.48     27.63      20.04     28.18

                                                        Total:    0.00    1685.90                1.80      14.64     935.77     334.02     71.39




                                                                 ETHIOPIA
                                                             STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                                MU 2004
                                                                      -
                                                           InMillionsUS Dollars


                                                                                Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                            IFC                                        IFC
     FYApproval                 Company                               Loan    Equity     Quasi        Partic     Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic


                                       TotalPortfolio:                0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00



                                                                         Approvals Pending Commitment
     FY Approval              Company                                   Loan       Equity         Quasi        Partic


                              Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00




                                                                   -46-

                                            Kenya: Statement of Loans and Credits

                                                           30-Mar-2004
                                                                                                                       Difference between exDected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA        SF         GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO78209     2004 DevelopmentLearningCentre LIL
                                             -                  0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00     0.00     2.95        0.00      0.00
PO78058     2003 KenyaArid LandsII                              0.00      60.00       0.00        0.00     0.00    56.99        1.43      0.00
PO82376     2003 Free PrimaryEduc.Support                       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00     0.00    22.83        4.43      0.00
PO66490     2002 PUB.SEC.MGMT.TA                                0.00       15.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     9.11        9.98      0.00
PO69501     2001 Kenya Economic8 PublicSector Reform            0.00      150.00      0.00        0.00     0.00    55.40      39.94      28.65
PO66486     2001 Decentr. Reprcd.Health8 HIWAIDS                0.00       50.00      0.00        0.00     0.00    35.63       19.97      7.16
PO70718     7.001 RegionalTrade Fac. Proj.-Kenya                0.00       25.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     14.78       4.06      0.00
PO70920     2001 HIV/AIDSDisasterResp.(Umbrella)                0.00       50.00      0.00        0.00     0.00    29.74       13.99      0.00
PO46871     1997 KE-LakeVictoriaEnv. (GEF)                      0.00        9.80      0.00        9.80     0.00     5.45        5.61      0.00
PO34180     1997 EarlyChildhwdDev.                              0.00       27.60      0.00        0.00     0.00     8.67       10.05      9.32
PO01344     1997 KE ENERGYSECTORREFORM                          0.00      125.00      0.00        0.00     0.00    24.82      32.98       0.00
PO01319     1996 URBANTRANSPORT                                 0.00      115.00      0.00        0.00     0.00    25.54       35.28      0.00
PO35691     1996 KENYA NAIROBIMOMBASAROAD
                         -                                      0.00       50.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     5.61        9.60      8.78

                                                     Total:    0.00       677.60      0.00      9.80       0.00    297.53     187.33      53.93




                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                           Feb29 2004
                                                                    -
                                                        InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                                              Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                           IFC                                       IFC
     FY Approval              Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi        Partic    Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
     1972                     TPS (Kenya)                          0.00        0.04       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.04        0.00      0.00
     2000                     Tsavo Power                         17.04        0.83       1.17       19.25     17.04      0.83        1.17     19.25
     2001                     AEF 2000 Indust                      1.53        0.00       0.00        0.00     1.53       0.00        0.00      0.00
     2000                     AEF AAA Growers                      0.54        0.00       0.00        0.00     0.54       0.00        0.00      0.00
     1998                     AEF AAR Clinic                       0.00        0.50       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.50        0.00      0.00
     1997                     AEF Ceres                            0.93        0.00       0.00        0.00     0.93       0.00        0.00      0.00
     1997                      AEF DerasLtd.                       1.oo        0.00       0.00        0.00     1.oo       0.00        0.00      0.00
     1996                      AEF Equitea                         0.3 1       0.12       0.00        0.00     0.3 1      0.12        0.00       0.00
     2000                      AEF Lesiolo                         2.50        0.00       0.00        0.00     2.50       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1998                     AEF Locland                          0.28        0.00       0.00        0.00     0.28       0.00        0.00       0.00
     2000                     AEF Magana                           1.26        0.00       0.00        0.00     1.26       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1997                      AEF Makini                          0.18        0.00       0.00        0.00     0.18       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1997                      AEF Redhill Flrs                    0.28        0.00       0.00        0.00     0.28       0.00        0.00       0.00
     1999                      ANSPAR                              1.41        0.67       0.00        0.00     1.41       0.67        0.00       0.00
     1980                      DBK                                 0.00         1.31      0.00        0.00     0.00       1.31        0.00       0.00
     1982                      DiamondTrust                        0.00        0.80       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.80        0.00       0.00
     1998                      GBHL                                2.33        0.00       3.00        0.00     2.33       0.00        3.00       0.00
     2001                      GapcoKenya                         15.00        0.00       0.00        0.00     10.00      0.00        0.00       0.00
     1982101103                IPSO()                              0.00        4.50       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.69        0.00       0.00
     1994                      IPSO()-Allpack                      0.00        0.36       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.36        0.00       0.00
     1996199                   IPS(K)-Fngoken                      0.00         0.06      0.00        0.00     0.00       0.06        0.00       0.00
     2003                      IPSO()-PremFood                     0.00        0.11       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.11        0.00       0.00
     1983191                   IntlHotels-Ken                      4.29         0.00      0.00        0.00     4.29       0.00        0.00       0.00
     2000                      K-RepBank                           0.00        0.43       0.00        0.00     0.00       0.12        0.00       0.00
     1994196                   Kenair                             15.00        0.00       0.00        0.00     6.41       0.00        0.00       0.00



                                                                  47  -

                              LIK                                   0.00       0.03      0.00         0.00      0.00      0.03       0.00       0.00
                              Mabati                                5.00       0.00      4.50         0.00      5.00      0.00       4.50       0.00
                              Panafrican                          12.64        0.00      0.00         0.00     12.64      0.00       0.00       0.00
                                       Total Portfolio:           81.52        9.76       8.67       19.25      67.93      5.64       8.67      19.25



                                                                       Approvals PendingCommitment
    FYApproval               Company                                  Loan        Equity        Quasi       Partic
    2003                     Kenair                                    0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
    2004                     Magadi Soda Co.                           0.02         0.00          0.00        0.00
                             Total PendingCommitment:                  0.02         0.00          0.00        0.00




                                       Tanzania: Statement of Loans and Credits

                                                             30-Mar-2004
                                                                                                                        Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                  OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA       SF        GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO71014     2004 HWAIDS                                           0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     72.65       -1.59      0.00
PO82335     2004 SecondHealthSector Dev.                          0.00     40.00      0.00        0.00     0.00      67.60      4.78       0.00
PO59073     2003 DARWATERSUP 8SANITATION                          0.00     61.50      0.00        0.00     0.00      58.27       2.72      0.00
PO67103     2003 Partic.Agr. Dev. and EmpowermentPro].            0.00     56.58      0.00        0.00     0.00      59.14       2.15      0.00
PO47762     2002 RURALWATER SUPPLY                                0.00     26.00      0.00        0.00     0.00      27.89       7.69      0.00
PO58706     2002 TZ ForestConservationand Management              0.00     31.10      0.00        0.00     0.00      34.02       7.57      0.00
PO71012     2002 PrimaryEduc. Dev. Program                        0.00    150.00      0.00        0.00     0.00      55.65     27.37       0.00
PO73397     2002 LowerKihansiEnvironmentalManagement              0.00      6.30      0.00        0.00     0.00       5.20       1.68      0.00
PO02797     2002 TZ SONGOSONGO GAS DEV. 8 POWER GEN.              0.00    183.00      0.00        0.00     0.00     123.44     86.88       0.00
PO65372     2001 SocialActionFund                                 0.00      60.00     0.00        0.00     0.00       9.40     -11.83      0.00
PO69982     2001 RegionalTrade Fac. Proj. -Tanzania               0.00      15.00     0.00        0.00     0.00       9.04       2.35      0.00
PO60833     2000 PUBLICSERV REF PROG                              0.00      412 0     0.00        0.00     0.00      26.07     -14.79      0.00
PO49838     2000 PRIVATIZATION                                    0.00      45.90     0.00        0.00     0.00      30.73     24.60       0.00
PO50441     2000 RURAL8MICROFINSVC                                0.00       2.00     0.00        0.00     0.00       1.oo       0.93      0.13
PO02822     2000 TANZANiAPSAC i                                   0.00    190.00      0.00        0.00     0.00      43.74    -151.60      0.00
PO57187     2000 FIDPII                                           0.00      27.50     0.00        0.00      0.00     13.85      12.28      0.81
PO47761     1999 TAX ADMiNiSTRATlON                               0.00      40.00     0.00        0.00      0.00     21.16      17.15      3.04
PO02804     1998 AGRlC RESEARCH                                   0.00      21.80     0.00        0.00      0.00      0.87       1.20      0.00
PO02789     1998 HumanRes. Dev. I                                 0.00      20.90     0.00        0.00      0.00      0.91      -0.02      0.00
PO46837     1997 TZLAKE VICTORIA ENV. (IDA)                       0.00      10.10     0.00        0.00      0.00      1.49      -3.31      0.00
PO38570     1997 TZ:RIVERBASINMGM.SMAL                            0.00      26.30     0.00        0.00      0.00      I.74       3.46      0.00
PO02758     1996 URBANSECTOR REHAB                                0.00     105.00     0.00        0.00      0.00      8.21      14.39      0.00
PO02770     1994 TZ ROADSII                                       0.00     170.20      0.00       0.00     63.53     25.10      93.46      34.56

                                                       Total:    0.00    1,330.38      0.00     0.00      63.53     699.18     127.53         38




                                                                  - 48 -

                                    STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       Feb 29  - 2004
                                     InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                      Committed                        Disbursed
                                                     IFC                             IFC
FYApproval    Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997          AEF Aquva Ginner                0.68     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.68    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998          AEF Blue Bay                    1.24     0.00     0.00    0.00   1.24    0.00    0.00  0.00
2001          AEF BoundaryHi1                 0.20     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.20    0.00    0.00  0.00
1996          AEF Contiflora                  0.07     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.07    0.00    0.00  0.00
1998          AEF Maji Masafi                 0.18     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.18    0.00    0.00  0.00
1994          AEF Moshi Lthr                  0.00     0.19     0.00    0.00   0.00    0.19    0.00  0.00
2000          AEF Zan Safari                  0.52     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.52    0.00    0.00  0.00
2002          Exim Bank                       2.50     0.00     1.00    0.00   1.50    0.00    1.00  0.00
1996          IHP                             0.35     0.60     0.00     0.00  0.35    0.60    0.00  0.00
2000          IOH                             2.50     0.00     0.00     0.00  2.50    0.00    0.00  0.00
2000          NBC                             0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    3.44    0.00  0.00
1993          TPS (Tanzania)                  4.38     0.87      1.04    0.00  4.38    0.87    1.04   0.00
1991/97       TPS Zanzibar                    0.00     0.03     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.03    0.00   0.00
1994          Tanzania Brewery                0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    6.00    0.00   0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         12.62   17.69      2.04    0.00  11.62   11.13    2.04  0.00

                                                  Approvals Pending Commitment    ~~




FYApproval    Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:            0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00




                                             -49-

                                                        Annex IO: Country at a Glance
AFRICA African Regional Capacity Building Network for HlVlAlDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                                                          and Care
 Kenya
                                                                                    Sub-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                             Saharan        Low-
                                                                   Kenya          Africa   Income            Developmentdiamond'
 2002
 Population,mid-year (millions)                                       31.3           686     2,495                          Lfe expectancy
 GNI percapita (Atlas method,US$)                                     360            450       430
 GNI (Atlas method, US5billions)                                      11.3           306     1,072                                 T
 Population(%)                                                         2.3           2.4        1.9
 Laborforce I%)                                                        2.9           2.5        2.3                                                   Gross
                                                                                                                                                    primary
 Mostrecent estimate(latestyear available,1996-02)                                                                                              enrollment
 Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
 Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                                   35            33         30
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                         46            46         59                                I

 Infantmortality (per 1.000 livebirthsJ                                 80           105         61
 Childmalnutrition(% ofchildmnunder5J                                   22                                          Accessto improvedwatersource
 Accessto an improvedwatersource (% ofpopulation)                       57            58         76
 Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                      16            37         37
 Gross primalyenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulationJ                     94            86         95
     Male                                                               95            92        103            -Kenya                Low-incomegroup

     Female                                                             93            60         87


                                                          1982        1992          2001        002
                                                                                                               Esonomlcratios.
 GDP (US5 billions)                                          6.4        8.0
 GrossdomesticInvestmentiGDP                               16.2        137
 Exportsof goodsand serviceslGDP                           25.0        26.9                                                       Trade

 GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                                  14.5        13.7
 Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                 11.6         9.7
 Currentaccount balancelGDP                                 -4.7       -2.3                        ..         Domestic
 Interestpavrnents/GDP                                       1.3        2.5           0.7        0.5          savlngs       l+l                 Investment
 TotaldebVGDP                                              10.0        68.2          49.5       51.1
 Totaldebt servicelexports                                 14.5        31.1          13.9        9.8
 Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                                 ..         36.1
 Presentvalue of debtiexports                                             ..        146.6                                       Indebtedness
                                           1982-92 1992.02            2001          2002    2002-06
  (average annualgrowth)
 GDP                                             4.4         2.1        1.1           1.8        3.5            -Kenya          -Low-incomegroup
 GDP percapita                                   1.0        -0.4       -1.0          -0.2        1.6




  Privateconsumption                                        67.1       70.2          79.0       61.1         .in1
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                              18.4       16.1          16.6       10.2
  Importsof goods and services                                                                                           -OD1             b G D P




  (average annualgrowth)
  Agriculture                                                2.7        1.6           1.2        1.0          2o

  Indusby                                                    4.3        1.6           0.7        1.4          IO
     Manufacturing                                           5.1        1.8           0.6        3.5
  Services                                                   4.9        2.9            1.3       3.6
                                                                                                                                                           I
  PrivateconsumDtion                                         5.1        2.2          -4.4        0.0         -'O

  Generalgovernmentconsumption                               3.6        8.6           4.3
  Grossdomestic investment                                    1.5       4.3           2.3        3.8                  -Exports           b l m p o r i s
   Importsof goods and services                               5.7       5.5           -1.2       2.9

  *The diamonds show four kev indicatorsin the countw lin bold) comoaredwith its income-amuoaveraae. If data are missina.the diamondwill be inmmolete




                                                                                     - 50  -

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1982     1992       2001     2002
Domestlcprlces                                                                     lnflatlon(%)                                       I
(% change)                                                                          T
Consumerprices                                         27.3          3.9     5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                          11.7     17.5        11.3     4.9
Governmentflnance
                                                                                 I
(% of GDP, includescumnfgrants)
Currentrevenue                                 25.1    27.5        22.5     22.4           97     98        99       00         01
Current budgetbalance                          -1.5      1.3         1.5     2.4
Overall surplus/deficit                       -10.2     -3.3        4 . 9   4.9             W G D P d e f l a t o r  ' I O I C P I


TRADE                                                                                                                                 I
                                              1982     1992        2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                     Exportand import levels(US$mill.)
Total exports(fob)                              894   1,013       1,732    1,742
 Fuel                                           223      69         115      101
 Coffee                                         227      128         88      97
 Manufactures                                   107      144        274      310
Total imports (cif)                           1,415    1.866      3,182    3,137
 Food                                            83      156        290      300
 Fuel and enemy                                 523     412         810      809
 Capital goods                                  250     411         756      803
Export priceindex (1995=100)                     77       76         74       74          98   97     98       89    00        01

lmporipriceindex (1995=100)                     112       91         100     104             mExpotts            .Imports             I
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        69       84         74       71                                                    O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1982     1992        2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                     Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services                  1,715    2,149      2,966    3,001
lmporisof goods and services                  2,030    2,152      3,939    3,850
Resourcebalance                                -315       -3        -973    -848
Net income                                     -254     -355         -80     -70
Net current transfers                            83       68        781      576
Currentaccountbalance                          -305     -180        -318
Financing items (net)                           139      255         509
Changes in net reserves                         167      -75        -191     256
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)            248      182       1,097   1,174
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                10.9    32.2        76.6    78.7

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1982     1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                     Compoaltlonof2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            641    6,898      5,644    6,207
   IBRD                                           0      656          24      13                        A: 13
   IDA                                            0    1,411      2,263    2,447  I            0:863

Total debt service                              256      670         417     299
   IBRD                                            1     159          26      13
   IDA                                            0       16          51      60
 Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                143      378         252
  Oflicialcreditors                             -15      155          62       1
   Privatecreditors                            -136       20        -103     -18
   Foreigndirect investment                      13        6            5
   Portfolioequity                                0        0            0                                       D:526
World Bank program
  Commitments                                     0      176          93       2   A IBRD                           ,     E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                  0       92         116      66   B IDA      D -Other mulslateral        F Private
   Principal repaymenk                            0      104          58      54   C IMF
                                                                                     ---                                  0 Short-terr
                                                                                                                             ---
   Netflows                                       0      -12          58      12
   Interestpayments                                1      71          20      19
   Net transfers                                 -1      -83          39      -7

Rote: Inistable was proauceatrom tne uevelopmenttconomics centralaatabase.




                                                                    -51   -

Tanzania
                                                                       Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL
                                                                                         Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                                                         Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (ANasmefhod,US$)
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                  9.9   306    1,072
Averageannualgrowth, 1996-02                                                                                T
Population(%)                                                    2.4    2.4     1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                   2.5    2.5     2.3
Most recent estimate (latestyear available,1996-02)                                                                    enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                            34              30
Lifeexpectancyat bitlh(years)                                    43      46      59                         -
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                           107     105      81
Childmalnutrition(% ofchi/drenunder5)                            29                            Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwatersource(% ofpopulation)                  68      56      76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulafionage 15+)                               23      37      37             -
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                63      86      95                     Tanzania
    Male                                                         63      92     103                     Low-incomeamup
    Female                                                       63      80      67


                                                 1982          1992    2001    2002
GDP (US$billions)                                                4.6    9.3     9.4        Economicratios'

GrossdomesticinvestmenVGDP                                      27.2   17       17.4
Exportsof goodsand ServicesIGDP                                 12.4   15       16.7                       Trade
GrossdomesticsavingsIGDP                                         0.3            10.5
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                           ..........   6.2    7.3     10.1
Currentaccount balancelGDP                                     -15.5    -7.9       ..      Domestic
InterestpaymenWGDP                                               i2     0.4     0.6       savings                      Investment
Total debUGDP                                       .....      145.1   71.5    77.2
Total debt servicelexports                       23.6           42.2   10.3     7.8
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                            ..  14.4
                                                                                        1
Presentvalue of debVexports                                        ..  89.9                              Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02           2001   2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                             ,,             -Tanzania
GDP                                               4.0            6.1     6.3
GDP percapita                              ....   1.3            3.8    4.1                              Low-income


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                                  1 Growth
(56ofGDP)                                        Iga2 1992             2o01    2002              of investmentand GDP (X)        I
Agriculture                                         ........    48.0   44.8     44.4     Is-

Industry                                                        16.2    16.0    16.3     Io--
    Manufacturing                                                8.2     7.4
Services                                                        35.8    39.2    3
Privateconsumption                                              80.0   79.9     77.1       .s
Generalgovemmentconsumption                         ....        19.6    11.7    12.5
Importsof goodsand services                                                                        -GDI          d G D P


                                               1982-92 1gg2-02
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                   Growthof export8and lmporh (Oh)

Agriculture                                         ......
                                                    ..           3.6     5.4     5.0
 Industry                                                        5.3     6.9     9.3      40
    Manufacturing                                                4.3     5.0     7.8     .?a
Services                                                         3.7     5.5     6.2        0

Privateconsumption                                               3.9    24.0     2.3    -20
 Generalgovemmentconsumption                                     1.9   -32.6    13.6     -40
 Grossdomesticinvestment                                         0.7     5.8     6.7             -Exports        -O'lmportp
 Importsof goodsand services                        ........     2.3    19.5    -3.3  .




                                                                       - 52 -

                                                                                                                      Tanzania

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002
Domesticorlces
(% change)                                                                         30

Consumerprices                                 28.9     21.8         5.2    4.6    25
                                                                                   20
ImplicitGDP deflator                                    25.4         6.2    4.2     15

Governmentfinance                                                                   10
                                                                                     5
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                    0
Currentrevenue                                          12.7       11.4    11.5
Currentbudgetbalance                                      0.8       -0.7   -1.4    I          -GDPdeflator        -CPI           1
Overallsurplusldeficit                                   -1.6       -5.0   -5.7

TRADE
                                               1982     1992       2001   2002
(US$ milljons)                                                                       Exportandimportlevels(US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                              411      414        772    737                                                   I
                                                                                    2.000 -
 Coffee                                         134       60         57     70
 Cotton                                           56      98         33     41
 Manufactures                                     43      64         56     38
Totalimports(cif)                             1,128    1,357       1,726  1,889
 Food                                           106       25        169
 Fuel and energy                                256      142        106
                                                                                   I
 Capital goods                                  527      639        755    813

Export priceindex(1995=100)                       86      75         151    156             88  97     98   99     00  01

Importprice index(1995=100)                       77     101         102    110                mExports       .Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100J                        112       74         148    141

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                               1982     I992       2001   2002     1 Currentaccount
(US$millions)                                                                                        balanceto GDP(%)             I
Exportsof goods and sewices                     645      548       1,430  1,569       0
Importsof goodsand services                    1,201   1,885       2,232  2,224       1
Resourcebalance                                -556   -1,337       -802    -656       2
                                                                                      3
Netincome                                        -85    -187         -85    -45      -4
Netcurrenttransfers                               24     456         -19     10       5
                                                                                      6
Currentaccountbalance                          -523     -714       -738               7

Financingitems (net)                            524      817         909              8
                                                                                      9
Changesin netreserves                              0    -102       -171    -347     -10

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$milljOnS)
Conversionrate (DEC,locallUS$)                   9.3    297.7      876.4  966.6

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1982     I992       2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                       Compositionof 2002debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstanding and disbursed            6,202    6,675      6,679  7,238
  IBRD                                           211      171          8      6
   IDA                                           414    1,618      2,588  2,869     I              G:606

Total debt service                               152      235        154    128
   IBRD                                           25       45          4      3
   IDA                                             4       19         35     22

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 309      697        927
  Officialcreditors                              231      263         93    179
  Privatecreditors                                31      -45        -21    -21
   Foreigndirect investment                       17       12        224
   Portfolio equity                                0        0          0                               ~ 7-7 C400
                                                                                                          1

World Bank program
   Commitments                                    71       60        355     57       A IBRD
                                                                                        -                             E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                 107      235        119    148       6 . IDA   D -Other mulllateral  F Private
   Principalrepayments                            10       39         23      8       C- IMF                          G Short-tern
                                                                                                                       ---
   Netflows                                       97      196         96    140
   Interestpayments                               18       25         17     17
   Nettransfers                                   79      171         80    123

%mote. InlstaDle was producedfrom tne uevelopmenttconomics centrald     a    t      a        D       a        s       e      .     b




                                                                    - 53 -

                                                     Ethlopla  ~ f r l income
                                                                        ~ ~          Developmentdiamond
2002                                                                                                                         I
Population,mid-year(millions)                            67.3   688      2,495                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                        100    450       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                          6.7     306     1,072

Averageannualgrowth,199642
Population(%)                                            2.4     2.4       1.9
Laborforce f%J                                            2.2    2.5       2.3                                         Gross
                                                                                     per                              primary
Mostrecentestlmate(latestyear avallable,199642)                                      capita           `\           enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)           44
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                      16      33        30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                            42      46        59
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                    116     105        81
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                     47                               Accessto improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source I%ofpopulation)         24      58        76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage IS+)                         56      37        37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)        64      86        95             -Ethiopia
    Male                                                  76      92       103
    Female                                                52      80        87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                                                    1
                                                1982    1992    2001      2002
                                                                                     Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                               5.4     10.0    6.2       6.0                                               I
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                    13.4      9.2   18.0      20.2
Exportsof qoods and services/GDP                 9.5      4.5    15.4      15.2                       Trade

GrossdomesticsavingdGDP                          5.6      3.0    2.2        1.9
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                         6.6      7.2    13.8                                   T

Currentaccount balancelGDP                       -6.8    -3.3    -4.2         ..     Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                             0.4      0.4     1.o       0.7      savings                       Investment
Total debVGDP                                   60.2     93.0   91.3     108.9      I
Totaldebt service/exports                        13.8    23.1    16.5      11.6
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                        46.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                    295.5         ::                    Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02    2001   2002   2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                       -Ethiopia
GDP                                       0.7     5.5     7.7     5.0




                                                      1992-02   2o01      2o02
 (average annualgrowth)                                                              Growthof exportsandImports(K)

 Agriculture                                      1.3     2.8    11.5
                                                                                     ;-
 Industry                                        -2.9     6.1     5.8
    Manufacturing                                -4.4     6.6     7.9       "s
 Sewices                                          1.6     6.3     4.6       5.5
 Privateconsumption                               1.5     2.5    11.4      -4.0     -10
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                    -1.0    16.4   -16.5      26.8     -20
 Grossdomesticinvestment                         -1.8    10.3    27.4      17.4             -Exports        &Imports




                                                                 - 54 -

                                                                                                              Ethiopia
                 ~~~~~    ~     ~        ~~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                            I
                                         1982    1992   2001   2002       Inflation(%)
Domestlcprlces
(% change)                                                               "T
Consumerprices                             5.9   21.o    -7.2    -7.2
Implicit GDP deflator                      4.2   11.3    -7.0    -6.3

Governmentfinance
("A of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                           16.6    10.6    19.6   22.1
Current budgetbalance                      -1.7  -5.0    -0.3    -0.1   I          -GDP         deflator  e C P I        1
Overallsurplus/deficit                     -8.0   -9.6  -10.0

TRADE
                                         1982    1992   2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                            ExportandImportlevels(US$mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                          376    154    441     467
  Coffee                                           81    175     166    2'ooo T
  Leatherand leatherproducts                       28     38      44     1.500
  Manufactures
Totalimports(cio                           848    875   1,558  1,598     1,000

  Food                                            131    241     177
  Fueland energv                                  120    265     244       500

                                                                        I                                                I
  Capitalgoods                                    320    589     624        0

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                 84     83     59                     86    97    98     99    00      01

Importpriceindex(1995=100)                 110     96     116                       .Exports          .Imports         O2
Termsof trade (1995=100)                    77     86      50

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992   2001    2002
(US$mi//ionsj                                                           I Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and sewices                512    453     957    909
Importsof goods andservices                946  1,074   1,945  2,004
Resourcebalance                          435     -621    -987  -1,095      0

Net income                                   -9    -86    -59     -50
Netcurrenttransfers                         73    372     774              5

Currentaccountbalance                    -371    -335    -264            -10
Financingitems(net)                        431    381     251
Changesin netresewes                        -60    -46     13   -136    1.151
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)      277    172
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$I              2.1    2.1    8.3     8.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982    1992   2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                             Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     3,280   9,341  5,697   6,523
   IBRD                                      48     12      0       0
   IDA                                     302    964   2,151   2,756    I                 F 9 8 G 6 6

Totaldebt senke                              76    109    182     108
   IBRD                                       8      8      0       0
   IDA                                        3     13     36      17
Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                          107    886     413
   Officialcreditors                     1,345     184    434     548
   Privatecreditors                          98     80    -10       -4
   Foreigndirectinvestment                    2      0     20
   Portfolioequity                            0      0      0

World Bank program
   Commitments                               30    150    202     343     A- IBRD                             E Bilateral
                                                                                                               -
   Disbursements                             28    112    455     465     B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                        -                     F Private
                                                                                                               -
   Principalrepayments                        5     13     22       5     C IMF
                                                                            --                                G Short-tern
                                                                                                                  ~
   Netflows                                  23     99    433     460
   Interestpayments                           6      8     14      12
   Net transfers                             17     92    419     447
"




                                                         - 55 -

AdditionalAnnex 11: Selection and EligibilityCriteria for Training Institutions,Implementing
                                        Partners, and Trainees
AFRICA African RegionalCapacity Building Network for HlVlAlDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                               and Care

  EligibilityCriteriafor TrainingInstitutionsandImplementingPartners

  ARCAN-supported training o ftrainers will be delivered by an eligible group o ftraining
  institutions to a qualifiedgroup o ftrainingparticipants. Final selection and subsequent hding
  will go directly to training institutions and implementingpartnersthat are contracted under
  ARCAN onthe basis o fhavingmet certain pre-determined requirements for possible participation
  inthe ARCAN network. The final selection oftrainingparticipantswill bemadeonthe basisof
  candidateshavingmet certain pre-determined criteria for participation. Guidelines for boththe
  selection o ftraining entities andtrainingparticipants willbe developed and approvedby the
  InterimSteeringCommittee following a two-phased process: Phase 1will involvethe
  development o f Core EligibilityCriteria for the institutions and entities that will participate inthe
  ARCAN network as trainers; and Phase2 will comprise the development o f Selection Criteria for
  candidateswho will participate as trainees.

  Participation inthe networkwould not be limitedto entities characterized solely as "training
  institutions." Indeedit is envisagedthat the ARCAN network would be open to participation by a
  broadrange o f institutions inacademia, public sector, private sector, civil society, andfaith based
  community inthe countries, providedthey meet the establishedeligibility criteria. During
  pre-appraisal andprior to appraisal, an indicative list o f institutions that are eligible for
  participation inARCAN'S first year operations would beprepared. The list would be put
  together by Steering Committee inconsultation with the World Bank andpartners, following the
  overall principles guidingthe establishmento f eligibility criteria.

  These guidingprinciples include assessingthe likelihood o fthe prospective institutionor entity to
  provide training that inprograms inthe various HIV/AIDS capacity buildingcategories that are
  prioritized by the project. This assessmentwould inquire the extent to which the institution's
  activities are: strategic, Le., support implementation o fnational HIV/AIDS strategies;
  incremental, inthat they add to, and do not replace existing b d s for training by MAPSor related
  partner programs; comprehensive, inthat they contribute to creating a regional public good in
  areas o ftraining that have the potential for yielding rapid andvisible impacts either upstream (in
  terms o fpolicy, for example) or downstream, interms o fhow it cascadesdown to provide a
  multipliereffect; is basedonresults inthat it incorporates a strong M& Efocus; andis
  sustainable inthat it focuses on networking, knowledge sharing, practical application o facquired
  skills.

  Phase 1: Development of CoreEligibilityCriteriafor ARCANTrainingInstitutions

  Phase Iwould involve the development o f core eligibility criteria for the training institutions. It
  would be guided by a set of guiding principles,             including assessing the experience o f a
  prospective institution in providing training in the HIV/AIDS capacity building categories


                                                    - 56 -

prioritized by the project and that are deemed to be: strategic; comprehensive, incremental,
sustainable; and likely to contribute to networking, knowledge sharing, and the practical
application o f acquired skills. Based on these principles, five sets o f core eligibility criteria have
beendeveloped inclose consultation with national counterparts:
        (a) Implementation experience and proven track record in HIV/AIDS-related capacity
        building;
        (b) Technical capacity in the comprehensive range of training areas and thematic issues
        prioritizedby ARCAN;
        (c) Country ownership interms of national accreditation and recognition;
        (d) Relevance of the institution's capacity building initiatives and proposals to the core
        training needs, including an explicit focus on regional capacity building (including
        full-utilization o f African teaching and administrative stafo and the prioritized expansion
        o f South-Southpartnerships; and
        (e) Likelihood o f sustainability in terms the mechanisms proposed by the institutions to
        contribute to an enabling environment for post-training support, networking and
        knowledge sharing, and to addressthe retention andrapid turnover o f trainees.

ImplementationExperience/TechnicalCapacity:This criterionwould bemeasuredprimarily
bythe institution's proventrack recordinprioritizedareas-especially, its previous multi-year
experience. Iti s recommended that this be a minimumo f three years experience. However,
recognizing the capacity limitations insome areas o fHIV/AIDS training needs, consideration
would be givento institutions proposing to embark on new areas o ftraining, providedthey meet
other criteria, such as the hctional governance, administrative and financial managementtrack
record andthe relevance o f HIV/AIDSto its overall mission and strategic plans. Where
circumstanceswarrant, the possibility o ftwinningarrangementswithtraining institutions within or
outside the ARCAN sub-region, butwithinAfrica, will be considered. Additional indicators o f
implementation experience that would have to be satisfied comprise: adequatetechnical staff and
advisors -to include both full- or part-time faculty or adjunct faculty inthe subject areas to be
determinedby the Steering Committee; commitment to quality assurance, for example through
certification, selection o ftrainees andtrainers, quality o f curriculum, etc.; and the quality and
comprehensivenesso fthe institution's internal strategic plan for capacity buildingo fmultiple
HIV/AIDSstakeholders, includingmedical professionals, HIV/AIDS groups, legalaid
professionals, PLWHA Associations

CountryOwnership:This eligibility criterionis designed to assessthe extent to which the
institutionadopts an institutionalapproach to training that is supportive o fmulti-sectoral,
multi-partner approaches -that is one that does not only target medical and health sector
personnel, butthat supports the country-driven responsesto strengthening overall capacity inthe
areas o fprogrammanagement, financial managementandmonitoring and evaluation of
HIV/AIDSinitiatives at all levels. Consequently, factors suchas national recognition and
accreditation, e.g., by the Ministries o f Healthas a leader, keyplayer andcontributor to the
national responseto HIV/AIDSwould be an important indicator o f country ownership. Also
important would be the complementarity o fthe prospective institution's overall approachwith
national AIDS coordinating structures, MAPS,donor initiatives, etc.; andincorporation and/or



                                                  - 57 -

integration innational HIV/AIDS capacity buildingpolicies, plans & initiatives.

Relevance to Core Capacity Needs: Relevanceto ARCAN Steering Committee's annual
training guidelines andpriorities; Balance inthe integration o f core competenciesinHIV/AIDS
prevention, treatment andcare, with emphasis onthe poverty focus o f such interventions, their
gender sensitivity intargeting boththe content of trainingprograms as well as the beneficiaries o f
suchtraining; Commitment to south-south capacity building,networking andknowledge sharing,
for example as demonstratedby a strategy for such capacity buildingandprevious experiencein
these areas. This would also include the demonstratedcommitment inbuildingcapacity among
African teaching and administrative staff.

Potential for Sustainability: Financial independence andstability, as demonstratedby sound
financial accountability andcontrol mechanismsand institutionalmaturity (interms o f governance
structure, management andaccountability procedures, permanent staffing) would provide
evidence o fthe potential for sustainability. The Steering Committee would also examine the
extent to which the institutionprovides a comprehensive sector focus (government,
non-governmental, academia, research, private sector, etc.). Additionally, the institution's
specific plans for post-training networking & support; its commitment to sub-regional and
national knowledge sharing; and its ability o fARCAN to complement existing work program,
without overburdening or weakeningthe institutionwould be examined. This i s inkeepingwith
the main purpose o fARCAN support -to buildcapacity that would filter through the countries'
HIV/AIDS response. Iti s not intendedto bethe main source o f support for the institution's
operations -merely to infuse some resources to it to expandinto neededareas. Finally, for this
criterion, the strengtho fthe institution's focus on M& E, as demonstratedby systems and tools
 inplace for monitoring andevaluation, the experience withevaluation initsprevious courses,
 application o flessons into curriculumdevelopment would be relevant.

 Phase 2: Development of SelectionCriteria for ARCAN TOT Participants

 Phase I1would involve development o f selection criteriafor training candidates, and would be
 completed after final selection o f institutions. These selection criteria will include, among other
 priorities, requirements relating to the candidates' educational background andprofessional
 experience andpreparation for the TOT program; inter- andintra-country diversity (especially
 geographic, sector andgender balance); andthe equitable distributiono ftrainingparticipants
 among the ARCAN partner countries.

 Prospective trainees will be selectedto participate inARCAN TOT programs on the basis o f
 selection criteria establishedby the SC. These selection criteria have been developedby the SC
 on the basis o f a set o f guidingprinciples derived from:

     The special nature and intendedobjectives o fARCAN training as set forth inthe ARCAN
     program guidelines;
     The stated outcome indicators for ARCAN training;
     The anticipated processindicators; and
     The needto provide a solidbasis for transparent selection o fprospective candidates


                                                   - sa -

Because o fthe TOT focus o f all ARCAN training, these selection criteria emphasizeboththe
qualifications (and therefore technical preparation and readinessfor participationinthe proposed
ARCAN training) as well as the opportunity(ies) available to the candidatesupontheir returnto
the home countries andwork places that will enable and support them indesigning, planning and
implementing training or mentoring programs that apply the knowledge acquired duringARCAN
training. To enhance the likelihood o fmeeting the major outcome indicators o fARCAN (increase
inthe percentageofARCAN graduateswho conductthe minimumrequiredlevels ofcascade
training) bothpersonal attributes andskills, as well as the workplace environment and support
that would enable candidates to follow through on such training are targeted as important criteria.
Finally, the infrastructure for in-service and on-the-job training, professional networking (for
example as representedby flexibility inwork scheduling; guaranteesprovidedby employers; and
accessto information andtelecommunications technologies and facilities to enablethe ARCAN
graduate to consult and interact with other ARCAN alumni within the country andinter-regionally
andto makeuse o fvirtual distance learningmaterial).

Thus, the criteria incorporate elements o f candidates' previous demonstrated experience (and
seniority) interms o fprofessionaltraining andpreparation for the ARCAN training, as well as a
forward-looking assessmento f candidates' potential as a future trainer, mentor and networking
colleague inHIVIAIDS training, capacity building, networking andpeer support programs,
initiatives and activities intheir home countries and within the ARCAN region. Based on these
guidingprinciples, the following sets o fessentialanddesirablecriteria highlightingthe knowledge,
skills, attributes, educational background andprofessional experience o fpotential ARCAN
traineeswill guide the nomination and selection o fpotential trainees. These criteria will bebased
onthe following:

a) Educational background and qualifications
     Holdat least a certification (undergraduate degree, diploma, professional license (or its
     equivalent ina discipline relevant to the health sector) and an indicatedminimumyears o f
     work experience.
     Have excellent written andverbal Englishlanguage skills.
     Be computer-proficient and familiarwith the Internet, to facilitate the candidates contribution
     and participation inARCAN alumni networking and knowledge sharingactivities.

 b) Professional background and experience
     Demonstrated strong interest andbackground inhealth services, healthsystems management,
     HIV/AIDSresearch, programming, management andproject/programme implementation or
     any other fieldrelated to HIV/AIDS program implementation.
     Have a strong interest indevelopment issues, includingunderstanding o fhow the changing
     HIV/AIDSenvironment andprogression ofthe epidemic affects development.
     Demonstrated professional leadership inone or more dimensions o f HIV/AIDSprevention,
     treatment and care as evidenced by multi-year experience inanHIV/AIDS setting.
     Proven track record o f designing, planning, delivering or contributing to HIV/AIDSrelated
     services ina local or national setting inanARCAN country.




                                                 - 59 -

c) Employer authorization and documentedreturn guarantee by candidates'employers.
   Ability to integrate knowledge acquired duringARCAN training withthe broader strategic,
   policy, andprogramobjectives o fthe candidates' National HIV/AIDS strategy, especially its
   humancapacity objectives andneeds.
   Ability to identifl HIV/AIDSconceptsinhealthsystems analysis to targetpolicies, strategies
   and interventions to improve HIV/AIDSto improve outcomes. Willingness and ability to
   develop strategies and action plansto apply the information, knowledge and tools acquired
   duringthe ARCAN training intheir work place settings so that they canplan, budgetfor,
   deliverand evaluate HIV/AIDSprevention, treatment and control courses to address needs.
   Ability to engageinparticipatory learningby sharing experiences, andbuildingonexperiences
   to address andshare issues faced at work ina participatory learningenvironment.

d) Post-ARCAN training workplace support and cascade learningpotential
   Ability to use the knowledge and skills to deliver HIV/AIDStraining intheir institutions and
    intheir countries inamore efficient andequitableways
    Resourcemobilization skill -ability to develop fundingproposals for capacity building
    programs on HIV/AIDSfor submission to HIV/AIDSfunding opportunities intheir country
    (including the ability to design programs that would tap into existing MAP funds).

N o quota system exists for participants from the three ARCAN countries. However, promising
candidates from all ARCAN member countries are encouragedto apply inorder to meet the
ARCAN program guideline for equitabledistribution among participatingcountries.
Promising female candidatesand candidates working at the urban, provincial, district, rural and
community-based settings are also encouragedto apply, inorder to meet the ARCAN program
guidelinefor gender andintra-country diversity. Duringimplementation, the Steering Committee
would reviewthe approved eligibility and selection criteria on a periodic basis to assesstheir
continued relevance, basedon the experiencefrom ARCAN training, andfeedback from multiple
sources (including TOT candidates, M&Ereports and HIVIAIDS programpartners). Subsequent
revisions andupdates o fthese criteria would be informedby the findings o f future training needs
assessments, andthe results o fperformance-based contracts with the selected institutions.




                                                - 60 -

                      Additional Annex 12 : Project Supervision Strategy
AFRICA: African RegionalCapacity BuildingNetworkfor HIWAIDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                              and Care

 The ARCAN Project will require intensive supervision, givenits multi-country andmulti-partner
 nature. Additionally, the Project Coordination UnitandSteering Committee will benew entities
 with some individuals ineachlikelyto possesslimitedexperiencewith Bankoperations. As a
 result, this project will require a heavier thannormal supervision effort.

 Objectives and Strategic Focus
 The first year of implementation for the project is expected to be FY05.Althoughthe project
 preparation hasbeen extensive, it is anticipatedthat there will be considerable needfor close
 supervision during the initialyears o fproject implementation. The main objectives ofthe
 supervision inthe first year are to (a) ensure that there i s adequate implementation capacity within
 selectedtraining institutions; (b) ensurethat the Project Coordination Unithas adequatecapacity
 and support to begincarrying out their mandate o f coordination; and (c) ensure adherenceto
 appropriate fiduciary responsibilities. The supervision strategy will focus on the following critical
 areas inthe first year. However, as is the case with the overall project design, flexibility infocus
 for support supervision will be required inorder to be responsive to evolving priorities or
 emergingproblems.

 Institutional arrangementsfor the implementation
 The supervision will focus onthe essentialinstitutionalarrangementsinorder for the project to
 carry out the plannedproject activities. Duringthe initial stages o fthe project there will be a
 strategic focus on the strengtheningand creation o fpartnerships - between andwithin countries,
 and with civil society organizations, private sector organizations andwithinthe public sector.
 Such partnerships are seen as the mainvehicle to address concerns about the absorptive capacity
 neededto intensify the nationalresponsesto HIV/AIDSas critical to the complementary and
 catalytic nature o fthis project.

 Monitoring and Evaluation
 Inamulti-sectoral project withdiverse implementing agenciessuchasthis, itwillbeimportant to
 have a sound M&E system inplace early duringproject implementation. Duringthe first year, the
 supervision activities will focus on achieving an adequatelevel o f functioning for M&E.
                                                                 -
 Coordination
 The core function o fthe PCU is the coordination o f a large range o f activities and initiatives
 implemented by a host of agencies from the public sector, the private sector and civil society
 organizations. The supervision strategy will concentrate on supporting the PCU and Steering
 Committee inthis formidable task.

 Procurement
 Supervision will provide support onprocurement andevaluate whether requisite capacity and
 procedures for the project procurement are inplace.




                                                  -61  -

Financial Management
Duringthe first year the project, supervisionwill focus onthe establishment andmanagemento f
the Special Account andfacilitate timely flow o f h d s directly to implementation entities.

Partnerships
ManyUNandbilateral agencies havemadeusefulcontributions duringprojectpreparation. These
contributions resulted inthe proposition for establishingjoint coordination mechanisms. The
supervision o fthe project will continue to buildthis partnershipandcollaboration. Three methods
are identifiedto further develop the partnership and collaboration: (i)  Joint-missions. The IDA
team will invitemultiplepartners to participate insupervision missions andreviews o fthe project.
Donor agencieswith experts inan areawhere they may have comparative advantageswill be
invitedto be part o fthe IDAsupervision missionteam; (ii) international experiences and
                                                             Sharing
best practices through supervision. Invitingpeople with experiences o fimplementingsuccessful
HIV/AIDSrelatedprograms outside Africa or the regiontojoin the missionto sharetheir
expertise andexperiences. Such support canbe provided and financed by the donor community;
and(iii) evaluation ofthe partnerships with a view to (a) strengthenthe relations; (b)
          Periodic
achieve our common goals inthe East Africa subregion; and (c) improving coordination. During
the project launch workshop, the IDA team will discuss the options described above with various
partners to confirm possible arrangementsandsupport.

Supervision
The project will need intensive supervision giventhe large spano f activities, its blend o fpublic
 andprivate sector interventions, andits multi-sectoral as well as its multi-agency nature. In
 addition, concems about a limited capacity will require intensive support to develop partnerships
 for the implementation o fthe national program. The project will be implemented by entities only
 recently established and whose capacity will need strengthening. A budget o f US$200,000 has
 been allocatedto supervisethe project duringthe first 12months o fproject implementation.
 Some o fthe skills required for the supervision o f the project will be neededon a regular basis
 while otherswill berequiredon an ad hoc basis. It i s therefore proposed to establish a project
 team, which will emphasize financial, procurement andoperational basic needs, complemented by
 technical specialists, inparticular those covering M&E, civil society and private sector
 participation, specific technical concems and sub-regional policy issues. A muchmore intensive
 than normal supervision program should be carried out duringthe first year o fthe project to put
 inplaceasoundinstitutional baseandproperly begininterventionstobeundertakenbythis
 operation.

 The core supervision team would be comprised o fthe following experts from headquartersand
 the involvedcountry offices:
 i)TaskTeamLeaderwithexperienceinhealthandMAPprojects;
 ii)OperationsSpecialistwhowouldsuperviseimplementationprogressinspecific
 sub-components and issues relatedto institutionaldesign
 iii)FinancialManagementSpecialistwhowouldreviewBankprocedureswithrespecttofiduciary
 responsibilities and assess managementtraining needs
 iv) Procurement Specialist who would review progress ofoverall procurement arrangements
 iv) Monitoringand Evaluation Specialist who would reviewthe relevant systems and


                                                 - 62 -

methodology put inplace
v) HealthSpecialist and Gender Specialist to review progress of specific project sub-components.


The core team would be complemented with additional technical experts via consultanciesand
from technical partners, as needed. As hasbeenthe case duringprojectpreparation, key technical
partners would also be actively encouragedto participate insupervision missions.




                                               - 63 -

                        AdditionalAnnex 13: Monitoringand Evaluation
AFRICA. African Regional Capacity Building Networkfor HIWAIDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                              and Care


 Background
 Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an essentialcomponent o f any development project. This
 holds particularly true with respectto the context o fHIV/AIDS, where the rapid expansion o f
 successfulinitiatives is essential inreducing the expanding morbidity, mortality and
 socioeconomic consequences o fthe epidemic. Suchprogram expansion, however, needsto be
 basedon clear, rational reasoning("evidence-based decision making"). An appropriate, flexible,
 and effective M&Esystemenhances this reasoningthrough "learning by doing," especially when
 implementing programs with a relatively new approach, and inturnfeeds into management
 decision making.An effective monitoringandevaluation system requires boldnessinredesigning,
 improving andkeepingon supporting target objectives.

 The ARCAN Project will concentrateon expandinghealthsector humancapacity, with respectto
 HIV/AIDSprevention, treatment andcareprograms. Between the projectcountries involved
 certain principles o f M&Eshould apply. These include:
         Reporting systems shouldbe simple, applicable to eachtraining institution, eachprogram
         area o f focus, and specializationhector o fparticipants
         Sharing o fknowledge betweenandwithin ARCAN countries is an intricate component of
         the project. The project design explicitly seeks for promote cross-border learning at both
         national andregional levels
         Monitoring and evaluation should feed to the National AIDS CounciVCommission
         Secretariat and to the National Ministryof Healthto augment their specific roles
         (coordination verses health sector program implementation)

 Project monitoring is the routine, daily assessmento f ongoing activities andprogress. Monitoring
 looks at what i s beingdone. InARCAN monitoring will record activities undertakenby boththe
 training institutions and recipients o fthis training (Le. the "master trainers). Evaluation i s periodic
  assessment considersoverall achievements and impact by anintervention. While typical M&E
  systems use a matrix o f input,process, output, outcome and impact, the focused nature o fthe
  ARCAN project onhuman resourcecapacity building excludes impact measurement. These are
  covered inother M&E strategies such as those o fthe Ministry o fHealthand or NAC. The overall
  impact o fARCAN would be enhancedservice delivery with reduction inthe morbidity and
  mortality o fHIV AIDS. As indicatedinthe appraisal document, however, measuremento fthese
  impact i s beyond o fthe scope o fthis project.

  The Concept of Training of Trainers
  The concept ofTrainer ofTrainers usestraining organizations (called, Training Institutions or
  Training Institution's) to train an ongoing number o f trainers duringthe course o fthe project.
  Success o fthe project i s dependent on Training Institution's & TOT'Straining early into the
  programand consistently keepingwiththese plans. It should be emphasizedthat more regular
  training with less people i s far better thanthe infrequent training conducted with many people (i.e.



                                                    - 64 -

"less more often, than more less often").

TOT Outcomesor Consequences
Consequencesor longer term results o f the project are envisioned to include:
    Increasedcapacity among healthcare practitioners with respect to training inselected
    program areas;
    Enhanceddeliveryof HIV/AIDS related services inboth quality andthe expansion o f
    coverage;
    Stronger linkages between key thematic areas o f HIV/AIDS programcomponents; and
    Promotiono fthe interchange o fknowledge andideasbetweedandwithin countries.

Indicators
Indicators are essentialto measure the implementation andprogress of any project, andneedto be
kept simple and be appropriately reported on. The key performance indicators for ARCAN are
measuredandcollected at different levels o fmanagementwithin the project. These include:
    Overall Coordination Structure (Project Coordinating Unit)
    Training Institutions
    Trainer o fTrainers




                                               - 65 -

Keyprogram indicators for the project are shown inthe following table.

          Level                                                Key Program Indicators

Input
rhe inputfor theproject    1.     Total number o fpartner training institutions
s the existing Training    2.     Finances made available through ARCAN to Training Institutions
`nstitutions with their    3.     Increasedcapacity to train by partner organizations becauseofARCAN Project as
paining programs and       measuredby the number o fARCAN fundedtraining to non ARCAN fundedtraining by the
'esource materials along   partner training institutions
uith thefinances and       4.     Quantitylquality o f trainers inARCAN-financed Training Institutions
eesourcesfiom the
WorldBank

Process                  TrainingInstitutionLevel
Theactual training
wocess by the Training    5.      Number of first time I follow up training sessionsheldfor Trainer of Trainers
lnstitutions and          6.      Number oftraining coursesheldinwhich participants were vettedprior to the
description of the        course andpre & post course evaluations undertaken.
garticipants'own TOT      7.      Numberoftrainees attending first time I follow uptraining session
work. Process indicators 8.       Number, geographical distribution o fARCAN trainees [map according to
zim to describe this      country andhealth district, villageltown] and sector representedat the time o f primary
wimary level of training. training
                          9.      NumberI percentageofpeople trained per number ofpeople initially targeted
                          [according to work plan]
                          10.     Number ofhours oftraining conducted
                          11.     Number ofpeople training hours [numbero fpeople trainedmultipliedby the
                          number ofhours oftraining conducted]


output                    TrainingofTrainersLevel
Knowledge, skills,
resources andpractice     12.     NumberI percentageoftrainees who conduct one training sessioninthe first
As a result of the TOT    six months after primary training occurred I total of those attending an ARCAN training
training sessionsheld,    course (as measuredby the number o f training reports submitted to the PCU)
ARCANgraduates will be 13.        Numberoftraining monitoring reports submittedto the Training Institutionby
capacitated to undertake the TOT'S after trainees have returnedto their posts OR
their own training to     14.      Number of first time I follow uptraining sessionsheld(reported at the endof
expand their knowledge    eachyear)
and skills.               15.      Numberoftraineesattending first timeI follow uptraining sessionbyTOT's
                          (compiled for eachyear)
                          16.      Geographical distribution o fTOT trainees [map according to country and
                          health district I institution] and sector
                          17.      NumberI percentageofpeople trained per number ofpeople initially targeted
                          [according to work plan]
                          18.      Number of hours of training conducted
                          19.      Numberofpeople training hours [number ofpeople trained X the number of
                          hours o f training conducted [TOT training only]
                          20.      Description of the resources [financial + other] obtained by TOT's inorder to
                          conduct training as measured at 12 month intervals
                          21.      "Loss to follow up" measure for TOT graduates.



                                                         - 66 -

                          'CU Level

                          12.     Total people training hours conducted becauseof ARCAN [number ofpeople
                          rained multiplied by the number of hours o f training conducted, sum ofbothTraining
                          nstitution's & TOT's], as measured at 12month intervals ofthe project, midtermand
                          roject end

Outcome
Improvements in the       23.     Number of successfulTOT's (graduates who conduct the minimumrequired
expansion, coverage and   training) who can be identified through selection criterion I pre andpost course evaluations I
quality of HIV /AIDS      work planor special surveys)
related service delivery. 24.      Percentof service delivery points intrainee's country with a primary recipient of
                          ARCAN supported TOT training



Major Types of Project M&EData

Primary data collected by partners
     Numberoftrainingepisodes
     Hours o ftraining episodes
     Numberofparticipants

 Calculated data
     People training hours conducted
     Number or percentageo ftraineeswho conduct one training sessioninthe first six months
     after primary training occurred (as measuredby the numbero f trainingreports submitted to
     the PCU)/ total o fthose attending an ARCAN training course)
     Total people training hours conducted becauseo f ARCAN [number o fpeople trained
     multipliedbythe numberofhours oftraining conducted, sum ofbothTraining Institution's &
     TOT's], as measuredat 12monthintervals o fthe project

Program and Financial MonitoringData
     Cost per TOT trained by Training Institution's
     Cost per people training hours
     Cost per total number o fpeople trained (both TOT's and their trainees)

 Data Sources: A number o f data sources are required for these indicators to be collected,
 including the following:

 Afer each training (both theprimary ARCAN TrainingInstitute courses & TOTgraduate
 courses) TrainingInstitution's and ARCAN TOTSwill submit to the PCU:
     ARCAN Training Monitoring Form
     List o f trainees & signatures
     Pre course evaluation forms
     Post course evaluation forms
     Student work plans (Training Institution's only)


                                                      - 67 -

   Informationonresources accessedandusedduringtraining (TOT's only)

Project Annual Reports will include:
   The number o fARCAN project training courses comparedto the numbero fnonARCAN
   trainings held
   Compilation o fprogram monitoring data o fthe previous 12months o fthe project

Mid TermReview/Endof Project ReviewKey Components:
   Survey o f TOT's either by phone, post or e-mail contacts
   Assessment o fplacement and currentjobs o fthe TOT's trainees (at least on a special survey
   basis)
   Linkingprogram andfinancial monitoring, as deemedfeasible within the context ofARCAN.
   (For example, examination o fwhether ARCAN TOT graduates access national-level
   resources differentially depending upontheir performance. Such an indicator would needto
   focus on a) definition o fperformance, and b) how allocations will relate to performance (e.g.
   will it rewardhighperformance or low performance or both? )


Multi-LeveYMulti-Partner Roles and Responsibilities

ARCAN TOT Graduates
    Preparework plans including resourcerequirements at the time o fprimary training
    Conduct training and submit timely reports following eachtraining sessionto the PCU
    Participate and support special evaluation survey's or reviews [such as midand at the endo f
    the project]

Training Institutions
    Submit timely reports following eachtraining sessionto the PCU
    Submitannualreports concerning activities
    Participate and support special evaluation survey's or reviews (such as mid-and end-project
    reviews]

Project Coordination Unit
    Central collection point for training report forms from Training Institution's and TOT's
    Refer on Financial Monitoring informationto the M&EAgency

M&E Agency (out-sourced)
    Linkedproposedtraining work planbyTOT's to that actually conducted
    Linkprogramreportingto financial managementsystem
    Forward ona monthly basis the updateddata base o fprogram information
    Conduct operational or programresearch/ evaluation
    Submission on the details of the vetting system o fpotential candidates [submitted to PCU
    Year1Yl

TechnicalServiceAgency (out-sourced)



                                                 - 68 -

   Review or vet potential candidates for TOT training courses & submission o freport to PCU
   Guidelines for pre andpost course evaluations & submission to PCU

Steering Committee
   Approve TOR for the M&EAgency
   Approve reports before dissemination

Steering Committee Members
   Support the M&Econcepts o fthe ARCAN Project with respect to their constituencies
   Provide input to the program on the basis o fM&Edata gathered and relevant information
   from their own organizations
   Assist infilling inthe M&Egaps which are not part o f the Project.
       MinistryofHealth (i.e. impact measurementsthat couldresult as a consequenceofthis
       and many other nationaVregiona1HIV/AIDSinitiatives)
       NationalAIDS Council
       Civil Society Organizations


Topics for Evaluation
Effective selection criterion for effective TOT's (linkingthe selection processwith the TOT's
who trained or didnot train others at the end o f six months)
Development o f appropriate implementation tools or training tools to be used by the TOTS
Support for TOT's, such as:
           Monthly contact
           Financial support
           Development o fnew materials for use (printmaterials, manuals, guidelines)
           Evaluation o fthe quality of training by TOT's
Descriptiono f the cause o f drop out o f TOT's
Before and afier documentation o f training conducted by implementingpartners
           To what extent has ARCAN expandedtraining capacity
           To what extent has ARCAN redirected activities
           New scope
New scope and/or Changed training methods
Changedmonitoring and evaluation o fprograms

What i s the cost o ftraining?
           Direct costs -finances and other inputs provided through ARCAN
           Indirect costs -loss o f services, reduced service delivery (especially with respectto
           health care workers)




                                                - 69 -

                         Additional Annex 14:ARCAN Training Institutions
AFRICA. African RegionalCapacity Building Networkfor HIVIAIDS Prevention,Treatment,
                                               and Care

 Duringthe course ofproject preparation, a very detailed, nine-month, processwas followedbythe
 preparation team inensuring transparency andequity inthe selection o f training institutions to serve as
 implementingpartners for the ARCAN Project. The final selection o f training entities was conductedby
 the ARCAN Steering Committee duringproject appraisal, onthe basis of the agreed selection and
 eligibility criteria. The a summary ofthe selectedtraining institutions andrelevant programs is presented
 below:

 Course:                   NurseTraining
 Institution:              Advanced NursingStudies Program,Aga KhanSchoolofNursing
 CourseLocation:           Nairobi,Kenya
 Duration:                 2 weeks

 Background: The Aga KhanDevelopment Network i s a group o fprivate, international,
 non-denominational agencies and institutions that seek to empower communities and individuals,
 often indisadvantagedcircumstances, to improve living conditions and opportunities. The Aga
 KhanFoundationis aprivate, international, non-profit, non-denominational development agency
 that i s now working in20 countries. The missiono f AKU inEast Africa is to become the premier
 center o f learningandto provide quality programs o f continuing professional education that
 increasecompetenceand leadto the acquisition o f higher-level academic awards and degrees.
 The missionwill be achievedbyusinginnovative curricula, adult teaching learning strategies and
 by developing the capacity to utilize andconduct relevant research, especially inrelation to
 monitoring the quality o f care andservice providedby graduates and inmeasuringthe impact o f
 changesthat occur inthe country as a result o fthe educational contribution providedby the
 university.

 The AKU School o fNursing(AKU-SON), which beganoperations in 1980educatesnurses to
 provide exemplary nursing care and demonstratesleadership innursingeducation, practice,
  administration and research. The School offers programs inGeneral NursingDiploma, Post R N
  BScN, BScN andMScN. In2001, AKU-SON introduced anAdvanced NursingStudiesprogram
  inKenya, UgandaandTanzania. Developedatthe request ofnursing leadersandthe respective
  governments o fthe three EastAfrican countries, the programoffers continuing and higher
  education up to BScN level to working nurses, allowing them to remainat their workplaces as
  they pursueprofessional development.

  The regional nursingleadershipplayed akey role inpromoting the establishmentofthe ANS
  PrograminEast Africa. Their input andparticipationwas sought at eachlevel o fplanning, from
  the conduct o f a feasibility study, through the formation o f a steering committee, to the
  development o fthe curriculumand the planningo f course content.

  Principal aim:AKU, through the A N S program aims to become a premier center o f learning for
  practicing nurses andmidwivesinEastAfrica. This will be achieved by:
      Providing quality programs inadvancedand continuing education;


                                                    - 70 -

   Utilizing innovative curriculum andprogram delivery strategies;
   Developing an international level capacity to conduct relevant nursingandhealth related
   research
   Educating nurses to provide exemplary nursingcare
   Providingleadership innursingeducation, practice, administration and research.
   Developingthe ability of graduate nursedmidwivesto pursue further higher education
   programs at tertiary education institutions
   Providingcontinuing education opportunities that will meet the needs o f nursesand midwives
   intheregion inthe specific, aswell ashealthsystems ingeneral.

Expectedresults o f the AKU-ANS include:
   Improved quality o fpatient care and health status o fcommunities throughout the region.
   Linkages with the Aga Khan Health Services and other hospital facilities enablesthe nursesto
   develop clinical competence inhospital settings;
   Enhanced status o f female professionals;
   Increasedmanagerial andclinical skills o fnurses at all levels o f service inboththe public and
   private sectors;
   The development o f a regional approachto nurse credentialing for healthmanagement and
   care while safeguarding essentialcountry specific traditions.

Recent Developments in Distance Learning Initiatives:            InKenya, AKU-SONhasbeen
identified as one of six pilot institutions to introduce the distance learning (DL)programfor
EN-RNconversion onbehalfofthe NursingCouncilandthe MinistryofHealthinKenyain2004.
This program was introducedinresponseto the desperateneedto get a critical masso f
adequately equipped nurses inKenya to assist instrengthening the health system o fthe country.
The DLprogram is the idealway o f achieving the ultimate objective ofthe ANS Programto reach
nurses inall parts o f the country. Similar programs are also expectedto commence inUganda
andTanzania.


CourseModulesfor ARCAN-financed Training-of-Trainers NurseProgram
(course duration: 2 weeks)

Unit I:Fundamentals of HIV/AIDS
   ExplainHIV/AIDSorigins and effects.
   Describe transmission o fHIV/AIDS.
   Describe HIV/AIDSrelated symptoms anddiseases (including T.B. and STD's and other
   opportunistic infections).
   Discuss diagnosis o fHIV infectionandAIDS.
   Describe the managemento fHIV infectione.g. anti-retroviral therapy inline with the National
   Guideline, strengthening the immune system andtreatment o fopportunistic infections.

Unit 11:       HIV/AIDSPrevention
   Discuss principles and strategies o fbehavioral change.
   Discuss the gender dimensions to HIV/AIDS


                                                   - 71 -

  Explainprinciples o f adult education.
  Discuss HIV/AIDSprevention ina traditional African context.
  Explore changing of unsafe sexual anddrugusebehavior.
  Discuss sexuality, education andlife skills trainingfor youth.

Unit 111:      HIV/AIDS Counseling
   Explaincounselingprinciples and skills.
   Discuss counseling indiverse context (e.g. cross-cultural counseling) and systemic counseling.
   Explain the process and importance o fpre andpost HIV test counseling.
   Discuss the principles andfactors involvedincounseling HIV infected individuals, their
   caregivers andsignificant others.
   Discuss spiritual, emotional andbereavement counseling processesto include importance o f
   disclosure to significant others andpossibly the wider community, makingreferenceto the
   memory book.

Unit IV: Care and Supportfor theperson living with HIUAIDS
   Explore the extent o f family and community involvement inthe care and support o fpersons
   livingwith HIV/AIDS.
   Explore strategieso fhow to involve PeopleLivingwith AIDS (PLWAs) inprevention, care
   andsupport o finfected andaffected.
   Discuss issuesrelated to home-basedcare andAIDS orphan care.
   Explaininfection control inhospitals/clinics/homes.
   Discuss issuesrelated to strengthening the immune system e.g. nutrition (balanced diet, food
   safety and clean water) andpositive living.
   Describe the nursingprinciples inhospital andhome-basedcare o fpersonslivingwith
   HIV/AIDS.


Unit V: Legal ethical and management issues
   Discuss legal ethical and managementissues o fpersons affected and infected by HIV/AIDS.
   Identify available guidelines on confidentiality o fHIV/AIDS anddiscussthe importance of
   informedconsent.
   Identifyand discussexistingHIV/AIDSpolicies inboth government andprivate sector.
   Explainthe process o fpolicy development on HIV/AIDSat work place, schools, and other
   institutions
   Discuss the impact o f HIV/AIDSon development




                                               - 72 -

Course:                 Counselor Supervisor Training
Institution:            Kenya Associationof Professional Counselors
Course Location:        Nairobi, Kenya
Duration:               4 weeks

Background
KAPC was registered in 1991andprovided assistance, inthe first instance, by conducting
counselor-training courses. Ithas subsequentlyfocused upon a numberof activities including:
counselor supervision, training counselor supervisors, counselor research, adolescent studies,
reproductive health education, counseling services and an adolescentnewspaper, Straight Talk.
KAPC is now seen as an authority figure inProfessional Counseling not only inKenyabut also in
the Easternand Southern Africa region. Many organizations and countries consult KAPC on
counseling andcounseling supervision services andtraining. KAPC is famous for its annual
International Counseling Conference, which hosts participants from as many as 15 countries every
year. Currently KAPC i s chairing the committee inKenya that is developing the schemeo f service
for the cadre o fProfessional Counselors inthe Ministry o fHealth. KAPC has intemational
recognitionandinMay 2004 KAPC will be co-hosts o fthe BritishAssociation o f Counseling and
Psychotherapy (BACP) on their ResearchConference inLondon. KAPC i s provingto be an
authority inthe area o fAdolescent Reproductive HealthinKenya through its 'Strength Talk'
project. Currently KAPC is amember o fthe RATNand the Africa Regional Sexuality Resource
Center. KAPC has a staff establishmento f 34 full time members and about 65 parttime
consultants.

KAPC was registered as a Non- Governmental Organization (NGO) in 1991. The core missiono f
the organization has beenthe promotiono f counselling as illustrated through its mission
statement, "to facilitate the creation o f a social climate where society, communities, organizations,
families or individuals can consider the opportunities o f change". This hasbeendone over the
past fourteen years through:
    Counsellor training courses- Skills levels, Certificate, Higher Diploma and a Masters Degree.
     Counsellor researchon areas o f sexuality, reproductive health, STD's, HIV/AIDS and
    Voluntary Counselling andTesting
    Adolescent studies peer education, reproductive healtheducation, counselling services and an
     adolescentnewspaper, Straight Talk.
    Annual International Counselling Conference andProfessional Development Programs

ExperienceinTraining
KAPC's core programs inrelation to training have included; Training counsellors, counsellor
supervisors, andpeer education, on area o f sexuality and counsellor supervision. As KAPC have
developed, programs have been addedand strengthened interms o f quality. KAPC i s regarded as
both a national and international organization with a structure that is inkeepingwith its diversified
activities. From 1994 - KAPC offered a 4-week certificate course incounselling to the general
public. This coursehas attracted over 3000 participants drawn from Kenya and 18 other countries
inthe sub-SaharanAfrica region(fromNigeriato SouthAfrica). Majority oftheparticipants from
other countries didthe course inNairobi while KAPC transferred the training to particular


                                                    - 73 -

countries in- Uganda, Tanzania, Eritrea, Rwanda, Somali and Sudan. The participants have came
from: NGO's; religious denominations; government departments; local councils; businesses; UN
agencies and some students registered as private individuals.

The range o f courses offered since 1994has increasedandnow includes Peer education,
HIV/AIDSTOT Counsellor Training Courses, a HigherDiplomainCounselling Studies anda
Master's Degree inCounselling Studies taught incollaboration with University o f Durham.In
addition a number o f short courseshave beendeveloped on Stressmanagement, child
                                                             -
counselling, loss and grief, marriage and guidance counselling andretrenchment. Although the
geographical distribution o f students centersonNairobi an increasingnumberhave come from
other parts o fKenya. KAPC courses have also attracted a number o f international students and
these have come from 14 countries ineasternandsouthern Africa, also from Nigeria.

KAPC has a history as well as experience incounsellor training, Peer Education, Adolescent
Reproductive HealthPrograms and supervision. Currently the Association holds; A series of peer
education programs, counselling certificate courses for participants from Kenya and the Eastern
and SouthernAfrica Region. Others are a HigherDiploma incounselling studies, a Masters
Degree Program incollaboration with DurhamUniversity, UK.

KAPC has successhlly been involvedinthe following range ofprograms over the years:
    1994to date runninga regular counsellor's trainingprogramme bimonthly at certificate level
   inNairobi, KisumuandMombasa.
    1997 initiated and since then conduct a HigherDiploma inCounselling trainingprogramme in
   Nairobi, KisumuandMombasa
    1998 to date hosts a Masters degree programme incollaboration with DurhamUniversity
    1992 - 96 conducted adolescentresearchesandbehavior change programs with support and
   collaboration with the Ford foundation and Rockefeller Foundation
    1995 to date - Publishes an adolescent sexuality and reproductive health newspaper 'Straight
    Talk' anddistribute360,000 copies to young people nationally every month. Have been
   supported inthe initiatives by, the FordFoundation, DSW, UNICEF, Pop Council, Futures
    Group International andEquality Now
    1998 to date - Initiated andrunning'Straight Talk Clubs' inschools incollaboration with the
   Ministry o f education. Currently about 700 clubs with an average o f 35 students.
    1996to date - conducting a two weeks (10 day) peer education programme inwork place,
    schools and on a regular calendar over the school holidays. Trained peer education
    counsellors for UNICEF staff, UNDP, World Bank staff, World Vision, FamilyPlanning
   Association o f Kenya, KenyaPorts Authority, Kenya Revenue Authority, various churches
    supported programs etc.
   From 1999 - holding an annual trainingprogramme for self-select counsellors interested in
   developing a career as counsellor supervisors.
   From 1995 - conducting a monthly support supervision programme for the association
   members inNairobi, KisumuandMombasa
    1995-98 - a three year AIDSCAP Counselling andTesting multi-sitestudy, the Nairobi site
   that KAPC hosted and offered regular supervision to all its counsellors
    1997 to date supervision and evaluation o fMSF-Belgium HIV/AIDScare and support


                                               - 74 -

programme inNairobi;
1998 - 2001 - Supervision o fthe City Council o fNairobi, University of Gent and Washington
university counsellors inthe City council clinics
1999-2001 Establishment o fa by-weekly support supervision for Liverpool University
(HAPAC Project) counsellors inThika andNairobi.
2001 -2003 Training of support supervisorsand establishment of support supervision for
KAPC Futures Group International supported HIV/AIDS counsellor's programme inthe 12
districts inNyanza province, Kenya. A total o f24 counsellor supervisors were trained.
2001 -2003 Training o f support supervisorsand establishment of support supervision for the
Family HealthInternational (FHI), HIV/AIDS,VCT supported programs inNairobi, Thika,
Mombasa and Western Kenya. A total o f24 counsellor supervisors were trained.
2003-2005 - Training and establishment o f support supervision programme in5 countries in
Eastern and South African Regionincollaboration with the Regional AIDS Training Network
(RATN). A total of 12 students are currently beingtrained.




                                             - 75 -

Course:                Physician Training
Institution:           Kenya MedicalAssociation
Course Location:       Nairobi, Kenya
Duration:              2 weeks


Background
Kenya Medical Association is a voluntary membership organization open to all medical
practitioners registered in the Republic o f Kenya. It is organized into 14 Divisions around the
country. Founded in 1968, K M A ' s main objectives include promoting the practice o f medicine in
Kenya; upholdinghighstandards o fmedical ethics and conduct; to advise the Government and the
general public on matters related to health; fighting for the welfare o f doctors; and to support
continuing medical education (CME) through its periodic publications, seminars and scientific
conferences.

The day-to-day running o f KMA is vested under a National Executive Committee (NEC) which
consists o f the Chairman, Vice - Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, all
elected biannually by its registered members. The Association runs most o f its activities through
thematic standing committees such as Reproductive Health, HIV/AIDS, Social Welfare and
Responsibility, East African MedicalJournal (EAMJ), HumanRights, DrugPolicy and Continuing
Medical Education (CME) among others. All these Committees report to NEC through their
chairmen. The members o f NEC, chairmen o f standing Committees and elected representatives
from all 14 Divisions form the National Governing Council (NGC), the decision makingorgan o f
KMA.

Inline with its objectives, KMA has implemented several donor hdedprojects. Currently, it is
involved in the training o f health workers on the rational use o f anti-retroviral drugs (ARVs), a
project h d e d by World Health Organization through the Ministry o f Health (MoH).
Negotiations are underway to expand the scope o f this program to cover all cadres o f health
workers in a self-inclusive ARV Training Program. KMA i s implementing a GTZ financed
measure to promote the role o f ProfessionalAssociations inEast Africa to strengthen civil society
inEastAfrican Community (EAC).

As an Association, KMA hasjoined the sister organizations inthe East African regionto forge a
cooperation inthe HealthSector together with the medical regulatory bodies and the Ministries o f
Health. It is under this initiative that the three East African Associations formed the Federation o f
East African Medical and Dental Associations (FEMDA) which was launched during the 2004
KMA Annual Conference. KMA works closely with the Medical Practitioners and Dentists
Board (MP&DB), the statutory body that regulates the practice o f medicine inKenya. One o f the
major achievements o f this was the development o f Fee Guidelines by members o f KMA for use
by the Boardto govern the fees chargedby providers (doctors). Recognizing the pivotal role of
continuing education in the profession, KMA i s working to develop a National Continuing
Professional Development (CPD) Structure that will ultimately make Continuing Medical
Education (CME) mandatory for all health workers.


                                                   - 76 -

Physician Training Course Modules (course duration: 2 weeks)

Module 1: History andEpidemiologyo f HIV/AIDS
Module 2: Preventive Interventions against HIV/AIDS
Module 3: HIV/AIDSImmunobiology and the Laboratory
       Use inDiagnosis andFollow up o fPatients with HIV/AIDSincluding ARV Treatment
Module 4: Medical Management o f HIV/AIDS
Module 5: Surgery inthe HIV/AIDSEra
Module 6: ARV Drugs andtheir Characteristics
Module 7: Guidelines on ARV DrugUse
Module 8: Pharmacy andDispensing o fARV
Module 9: PMTCT Transmission o fHIV/AIDSand support
Module 10: The Use o fARV drugs inChildhood-HIV/AIDS
Module 11:Clinical PackagesandARV inHome BasedCare
Module 12: Legal Framework inHIVIAIDSandinARV DrugRational Use inSpecial
Circumstances

2.     Modules to be developed are:

Vaccine Development for fight against HIV/AIDSTransmission and infection
HIV/AIDS:ClinicalFeaturesandDiagnosis
Opportunistic Infections, Clinical FeaturesandManagement
ARV DrugChemistries, PharmaceuticsandDrugReactions
HIV/AIDSAdvocacy, Behavior Change Communications (BCC) andVoluntary Counseling.




                                              - 77 -

Course:                LaboratoryTechnicianTraining
Institution:           EthiopianHealthandNutritionResearchInstitute
CourseLocation:        Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Duration:              2 weeks


Background:
The EthiopianHealthandNutrition ResearchInstitute (EHNRI), established in 1950, i s a unique
researchinstitutionwithinEthiopia, recognized nationally and internationally as a center o f
excellence. The breadth andrelevance ofthe institute's researchagenda, andthe ability o fthe
institute to work closely with government ingetting researchinto policy, have all contributed to
this reputation. The institute i s staffedby nearly400 employees rangingfrom scientific, technical,
administrative and supportive personnel, involvedwith numerous projects that are at the cutting
edge of HIV/AIDS, STD, TB, traditional medicine, andnutritional healthresearch. Currently,
there are 10 Senior Researchers, 15 Researchersgrade 11,8 Researcher grade -I,    35 Associate
Researcher grade 11, 10Associate Researchergrade I,35 ResearchTechnologists (rangingfrom
grade I1to VII) and20 ResearchAssistants.

The senior staff are recognizednationally for their expertise, andtherefore serveonmanycritical
national structures. Inaddition, they are consultedby and support the government inthe
development o fhealth policies andprograms. Currently, the institute i s governedby Boardo f
Directors (BOD) andthe Minister o f Healthi s the Chair o f the BOD, the institute's director
serving as its secretary. The institute collaborates with Ministry ofHealth, HIV/AIDSPrevention
andControl Office, the EthiopianScience andTechnology Commission, Regional Health
Bureaus, the EthiopianRedCross Blood Banks, Addis Ababa University, Non-Governmental
Organizations, WHO, UNAIDS, and other groups which aim to combat the HIV/AIDSepidemic
inthe country. The institute hasreceivedvarious awardsandhonors for its contribution bothfrom
national and international organizations.

The institute hasthe following objectives:
    Enhancing the capacity o fthe EHNRIto support surveillance o f HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, VCT
     andprovide referral servicesfor diagnostic andother diseasesrelatedto HIV infectionand
    transmission inEthiopia.
    To strengthen development o f a national quality assurance program for HIV/STI/TB.

EHNRI, incollaboration with others, also hasthe objective ofenhancing its capacity to support
and strengthen HIV/AIDS/TB/STI surveillance andprogrammatic services including: -
    validate HIV/STI/TBalgorithms to support sentinel surveillance andprogrammatic services
     (VCT, MTCT)
     develop standardized operation procedures (SOP)
    provide quality assurance
    provide continuing diagnostic training
    establish drugresistancesurveillance for TB and STI


                                                  - 78 -

   establish laboratory referral diagnostic and monitoring facility for HIV/AIDS/TB/STI and
   other opportunistic infections


The institute provides short-term training inthe following: -

                -Training o f laboratory technicians on HIV testingalgorithms inEthiopiafor the
purposes o f surveillance [two weeks] and.                    VCT programs, including PMTCT
programs
                -Screening for bloodsafety
                -Training on Good Laboratory Practices (GLP)
                -Integrated Laboratory Training on HIV/STI/TB/malaria
                -Training on laboratory aspectso f antiretroviral monitoring, including CD4 cell
counting and viral loaddetermination methodologies
                -Introduction to epidemiology and statistics




                                                 - 79 -

Course:                Program Managers Training
Institution:           Eastern and Southern ManagementInstitute
Course Location:       Arusha, Tanzania
Duration:              3 weeks


Course Objectives
HIV/AIDS progrdproject managers face a number of constraints in their day-to-day duties
including limited financial resources, lack o f political will to support programs at national and
decentralized levels, stigma and denial, corruption, misuse o f resources among others in addition
to general inadequate technical and managerial skills. The overall objectives o f the course are to
enable HIV/AIDS program managersto perform effectively intheirjobs.

Participants o f this course offered by the Eastern and Southern Management Institute (ESAMI)
willbe able to:
    Explainthe generalmanagementandtechnical issues inHIV/AIDS programs andequip
    participants with such skills
    Develop programs and projects to combat HIV/AIDS
    Describe the role of InformationManagement inHIV/AIDSprograms
    Provide anoverview o f change management
    Appraise HIV/AIDSprograms and projects
    Plan and implement HIV/AIDSprograms andprojects
    Share national andparticipants' experience inthe managemento f HIV/AIDS programs and
    activities and
    Prepare action plans to resolve programs/project managementproblems and for integration of
    learnedprinciples back to work
    Monitor and evaluate HIV/AIDSprograms andprojects

The coursewill cover the following modules:

Modulel: Foundation Module
    Introductionto ProjectProgram Management
    Introduction to HIV/AIDS
    Socio-cultural aspects o f HIV/AIDS
    HIV/AIDSProject/Program Management

Module 2 -Program/Project Formulation and Planning
    ProgradProject Planning
    Data collection analysis
    Project design
    HIV/AIDSPrevention, Mitigation Care andSupport

Module 3 -Program/Project Appraisal
    Introductionto appraisals


                                                - 80 -

  Assessmento f financial feasibility
  Assessment o f Socio-economic Impact
  Assessment o f Institutional and Organizational Impact
  HIV/AIDSandFinancing

Module 4 -Program/Project Implementation and Management
  Introduction to implementation
  Project planningandimplementation techniques
  Recruitment and selection of staff
  Leadership and team building
  Financial resourcesmanagement
  Procurement and supplies management
  Changemanagement

Module 5 -Program/Project Evaluation
  Introduction to monitoring and evaluation
  Monitoring and Evaluation Planning
  ImplementingEvaluationPlan

Module 6-Integration and Transfer of Learning
  Country profile andpersonal experiencewith HIV/AIDSprograms
  Action Plans
  Transfer of learning


The target candidatesfor this course include
  HIV/AIDS program leadedmanagers ingovernment, private sector, parastatals and civil
  society at local, national andregional level
  Politicians, policy makers andmiddleto senior level decision makers ingovernment and civil
  society to create an enabling environment for program and PLWHA
  Trainers inHIV/AIDSandmanagementprograms
  Program Officers of Donor funded HIV/AIDSprograms




                                              -81 -

- 82 -

MAP SECTION


