ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                        AWorid Free oi POv*rty  3
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/22/2003                            25369
Section I - Basic Information                               January 22, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFRICA                               Project ID: P080406
Project: African Regional Educational Center for  Task Team Leader: Sheila Dutta
HIV/AIDS
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 1, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 17, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFRHV                          Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the Africa Regional Educational Center for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care
(AREC) project is to expand access to comprehensive and evidence-based HIV/AIDS prevention,
treatment, and care programs by supporting a subregional "center of excellence" for the training
of health care professionals. This project will focus its initial support in supporting a primary
training center housed Makerere University in Uganda and subsequently in creating a sustainable
subregional network of satellite training capacity in other AREC partners countries. The project
will utilize a training facility constructed for this purpose and fully funded by a private sector
partner. The first phase of this project will support HIV/AIDS-related human resource capacity
building in Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, and Eritrea using a "training-of-trainers" (TOT) model. It
is expected that, as a result of increased capacity and leadership among health care professionals
in the subregion, this project will contribute to the improved management of HIV/AIDS and its
related opportunistic infections, in addition to the enhanced delivery of and linkage to preventive
interventions.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component #1: Training for Health Care Providers
The project will support the development of both short and long-term training courses for health
care professionals at various levels, including modules on topical cluster training and joint
trainings for teams.
la) Training program for African physicians. The purpose of this four-week training program
would be to develop the capacity of African physicians to provide enhanced care for



2
ISDS
HIV-positive adults and children, and implement prevention strategies, by providing participants
with both the most current knowledge and best practices in the clinical management of
HIV/AIDS. In order to ensure optimal use of resources, the program has been developed based
on a "training-of-trainers" (TOT) format. AREC graduates are mandated to transfer knowledge
acquired to other physicians and the team of health care providers with which they work. It
should be noted that this subcomponent has already initiated implementation with support from
other partners. To date, four training sessions of between 10-12 students each have been
conducted and the curriculum for this four-week course has been finalized. The proposed project
would support the expansion of this program to the subregional level.
lb) Health care providers training program. A program is being developed for health care
providers including nurses, clinical officers, counselors, dispensers and laboratory technicians.
The purpose of the program will be to provide these groups of health care providers with an
opportunity to strengthen their practical skills in the delivery of HIV/AIDS care and prevention
services. Lectures will be delivered to the group as a whole, followed by practical sessions for
each of the different provider categories. All training will be delivered in Kampala in order to
utilize existing training resources available through partner organizations including the
following: adult and pediatric infectious diseases clinics at Mulago Hospital, TASO, Hospice
Uganda, The Collaborative Core Laboratory at Mulago Hospital, The Joint Clinical Research
Center, and MildMay.
]c) Topical cluster training. The purpose of the topical cluster training sub-component is to
deliver short courses on specific topics to teams of health care providers (e.g. implementation of
programs preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV infection, determination of optimal
testing strategies). Within the AREC, topical training will be delivered to teams who will act as
future trainers with a particular area of expertise.
Component #2: Infectious Disease and Clinical Pharmacy Fellowships. As a complement to
short term training programs, long-term investment in clinicians and scientists is an essential
component of capacity building. Long-term investment in health care providers will ensure a
strong base of clinicians and scientists, in terms of both service delivery and research, and the
development of future mentors and leaders.
2a) Post-doctoralfellowship in infectious diseases. Only a small number of African physicians
obtain fellowships in Europe or North America and receive quality training. The training is often
inappropriate for the requirements of clinical practice in African countries, and applicability is
limited. Additionally, a minimum of 50 percent of individuals who receive advanced training
outside of Africa are recruited to positions in the countries in which they trained. As a result,
their skills and leadership potential are lost to Africa. In response to these issues, AREC will
sponsor a three-year training program for physicians who have completed post-graduate training
in medicine or pediatrics. The objective of his program is to train the future Infectious Diseases
Specialist and research leaders in Africa.
2b) Clinical pharmacy graduate program Clinical pharmacists play an integral role in patient



3
ISDS
care in health care systems. The aim of clinical pharmacy is to ensure the safe, effective and
cost-effective use of medicines in order to optimize patient outcomes. The practice of clinical
pharmacy includes: distributive functions, prescription review; selection of appropriate therapy;
monitoring of adverse drug reactions; identifying potential drug interactions; ensuring
appropriate administration schedules; provision of medicines information; patient counseling;
and monitoring of adherence to drug schedules. With support from AREC, the School of
Pharmacy, Makerere University proposes to develop a Master of Science in Clinical Pharmacy.
The aim of this degree is to provide African pharmacists with the appropriate knowledge base
and skill mix to enable them to impact positively on the clinical outcomes for HIV infected
individuals. Implementation of the program will be done in collaboration with the established
MSc program in Hospital Pharmacy at Trinity College, Dublin.
Component #3: Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and Knowledge Sharing. In order to
facilitate on-going education of graduates and to support its training of trainers approach, the
AREC project proposes to actively develop distance learning, telemedicine, and knowledge
sharing .
3a) AIDS Treatment Information Center. HIV/AIDS care is a rapidly changing area of clinical
practice. Strategies to maintain health care provider competencies are essential. Dissemination
of information and linkages to experts in the field of HIV/AIDS are needed in Uganda and other
African countries. Through AREC, an AIDS Treatment Information Center addressing these
needs and based within the existing facility will be supported.
3b) Distance Learning and Telemedicine. As an extension of its continuing education emphasis,
AREC will explore options for developing satellite training networks in certain African countries
to maximize resources and to ensure a broader regional approach. AREC aims to pilot the
development of an Satellite Training Network that will host train-the-trainer programs on certain
topics, specific instruction of former trainees in learning theory and methods to enhance their
effectiveness, central development of syllabus material, and structured course evaluation and
training quality assurance.
3c) "Refresher" courses and meetings. Within each of the proposed training programs
for AREC, provisions to foster on-going learning activities will be developed.
In support of the continuing education needs of graduates, the AREC project proposes to develop
and provide opportunities for graduates to refresh their skills and acquired knowledge-base, using
short "refresher" courses and occasional meetings.
Component #4: Overall program coordination and monitoring and evaluation
This component would support the development of strong coordination and capacity building
between both AREC's partner countries and its implementing partners. In addition, this
component would provide the AREC Secretariat with support to conduct its administrative and
fiduciary responsibilities. It is anticipated that the requisite administrative offices will be housed
in an existing facility and/or rented should more space be required. The proposed project will
prioritize the establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation that would enable the rapid



4
ISDS
extraction of lessons and also their application to the continued strengthening of the program.
Support for catalyzing the conduct of priority operational research, pilot activities, and the
coordination of requisite working groups (e.g. curriculum development) will also be included in
this component.
Components:
Training for health care providers
Infectious disease and clinical pharmacy fellowships
Distance learning, telemedicine, and knowledge sharing
Overall program coordination and monitoring & evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project will be housed within an existing center within Makerere Medical School in Kampala, Uganda.
B. Chleck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. The proposed project is a capacity develoment effort which will support subregional capacity
building through training in WHV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care services. The program will be
housed in an existing building in Kampala. Neither new construction nor rehabilitation of the existing
facilities is anticipated.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes * No    C- TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            O Yes * No    O TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No    C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    'J TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               O Yes * No    CTBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes * No    0 TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    ')TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 O Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         C Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes * No    O TBD
*By supporting the proposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If inforrmation Is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A



5
ISDS
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area
N/A
HI.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
II.D 3 Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Partner countries and all key stakeholders are directly involved in the design and implementation
of this project. Implementing partners will include government health centers, NGO/CBO
programs, and private sector entities.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable



6
ISDS
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Sheila Dutta                                January 13, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         Janaury 14, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Dzingai Mutumbuka                           January 14, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LSAeiFi    R    ObCi_           E _ -5r_ S    OWCiE



