                                               CONFORMED COPY



                                             Grant Number H129 TA




Development Grant Agreement
     (African Regional Capacity Building Network for
    HIV/AIDS Prevention, Treatment, and Care Project)


                        between


       THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA


                          and

   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                Dated January 25, 2005
                                                                Grant Number H129 TA


                      DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 2005, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
         WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
"Bank"), pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of its Executive Directors,
established the Global Environmental Facility (the "GEF') to assist in the protection of
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable
economic development;
        (B)      following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);

        (C)     the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under
Resolution 94-2; and

        (D)      the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the Republic of Kenya
(together with the Recipient, hereinafter referred to as the "Participating Countries") have
addressed a letter to the Association, confirming their commitment to the objectives of
the Project and to its implementation, and that the GEF funds available for financing the
Project may be allocated directly to the Recipient, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement; and
         WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement;
        NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                             -2-

                                         ARTICLE I
                            General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this
Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

                (i)      Article I;
                (ii)     Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12),
                         (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;

                (iii)    Section 3.01;

                (iv)     Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06;

                (v)      Article V;

                (vi)     Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;

                (vii)    Section 8.01 (b);

                (viii)   Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;

               (ix)      Article X;

                (x)      Article XI; and

               (xi)      Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.

       (b)     The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:

               (i)       the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions,
                         means the Recipient;

               (ii)      the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the
                         General Conditions, means this Agreement;

               (iii)     the term "Credit" and "credit", wherever used in the General
                         Conditions, means the Grant; and

               (iv)      the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General
                         Conditions, means the Grant Account.
                                            -3-


       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

        (a)      "AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome;

         (b)      "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the
table in Part A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

        (c)      "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works,
consultants' services and training referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

        (d)      "Financial Procedures Manual" means the manual referred to in Section
5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in agreement
with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Financial Procedures
Manual;

       (e)      "Financial Monitoring Report" or "FMR" means each report prepared in
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

        (f)      "HIV' means the human inununo-deficiency virus;

        (g)      "NGOs" means nongovernmental organizations established and
operating under the laws of the Participating Countries;

         (h)     "Participating Countries" in addition to the Recipient, means the Federal
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, the Republic of Kenya, and such additional countries
as the Steering Committee and the Association may agree;

        (i)        "PLWHA" means people living with HIV/AIDS;

         (j)      "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan, dated
May 7, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation,
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of
Project implementation;

        (k)     "Project Coordination Unit" or "PCU' means the project coordination
unit housed in the Prime Minister's Office of the Recipient, in charge of the day-to-day
management of the Project;

         (I)      "Project Operational Manual" means the manual in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, setting out details of (a) the Project implementation plan;
(b) Project procurement arrangements; and (c) such other administrative, technical and
organizational arrangements as shall be required for the Project, as the same may be
                                           -4-


amended from time to time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes
any schedules to the Project Operational Manual;

         (m)    `Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on
behalf of the Association on February 27, 2004, and on behalf of the Recipient on March
3, 2004;
        (n)    "Project Year" means the first period of twelve (12) months following
the Effective Date of the Project (First Project Year) and each subsequent period of
twelve months thereafter until the completion of the Project;

       (o)      "Report-based Disbursements" means the Recipient's option for
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
         (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and

        (q)     "TB" means tuberculosis.

                                     ARTICLE II

                                       The Grant

        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand SDR's
(SDR 6,900,000).

        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant
Account is requested.

        (b)     Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to the Bank the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
                                            -5-

         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such
later date.
        Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

         (b)      The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

         (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. (a) Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15
and November 15 in each year.

       (b)      The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.

                                      ARTICLE III

                                 Execution of the Project

        Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

        (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                           -6-


        Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.
        (b)     The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the
Association's approval.

        Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:

         (a)     prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and

        (b)     afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Recipient on said plan.

                                       ARTICLE IV
                                  Financial Covenants

        Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
        (b)     The Recipient shall:

                (i)     have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                        Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the
                        Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
                        withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made,
                        audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
                        standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors
                        acceptable to the Association;
                (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
                        not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such
                        other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies
                        of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                        Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the
                        Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such
                                            -7-

                         statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the
                         Association; and

                 (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                         such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial
                         statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may
                         from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
                (i)      retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
                         the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last
                         withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
                         (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                         evidencing such expenditures;

                (ii)     enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                         records; and

                (iii)    ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the
                         audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the
                         Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.

          Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:

                 (i)    sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds
        provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned
        uses of such funds;

               (ii)     describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances
        between the actual and planned Project implementation; and

                 (iii)   sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the
        end of the period covered by said report.

         (b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar
quarter.
                                          -8-


                                     ARTICLE V
                              Effective Date; Termination

         Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:

       (a)     the Financial Management and Procurement Agency has been
contracted in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;

        (b)     the Recipient has adopted the Financial Procedures Manual and the
Project Operational Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;

       (c)     the Recipient has established the Project Coordination Unit, with a PCU
Coordinator with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and
employed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3; and

       (d)     the Recipient has furnished terms of reference for the appointment of an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Association.
        Section 5.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                           -9-

                                      ARTICLE VI

                      Representative of the Recipient; Addresses

        Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
        Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

        For the Recipient:

                Ministry of Finance
                P.O. Box 9111
                Dar es Salaam
                Tanzania

                Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile

                Treasury                41329                    (255) 222 11 77 90
                Dar es Salaam

        For the Association:
                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America


                Cable address:                   Telex:                  Facsimile:
                INDEVAS                          248423 (MCI) or         (202) 477-6391
                Washington, D.C.                 64145 (MCI)
                                         -10-



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above
written.




                        THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA




                        By /s/ G. S. Mgonja
                                                             Authorized Representative




                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                        By /s/ Judy O'Connor
                                                             Authorized Representative
                                         -11-


                                    SCHEDULE 1
                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.      Disbursement Table

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                       Amount of the
                                      Grant Allocated                  % of
                                       (Expressed in               Expenditures
       Category                       SDR Equivalent)             to be Financed

(1)   Works                                     21,000          100%

(2)   Goods                                     41,000          100%

(3)   Consultants'                         6,100,000            100%
      Services and Training

(4)   Operating Costs                        110,000            100%

(5)   Refunding of                           220,000            Amount due pursuant
      Project Preparation                                       to Section 2.02 (b) of
      Advance                                                   this Agreement

(6)   Unallocated                            408,000


            TOTAL                     SDR 6,900,000


2.       For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means incremental
costs incurred under the Project on account of fuel and maintenance for vehicles,
equipment operation and maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses,
staff travel, subsistence and representation allowances, salaries for contractual and
temporary staff, management fees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's
civil service.

3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
                                           - 12 -

690,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after January 1, 2004.

4.       The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods and
works costing less than $100,000; (b services for consulting firms costing less than
$100,000; (c)services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; and (d)
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Recipient.

5.       The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the [six-
month period] following the date of such request.

B.Special Account

1.      The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.

2.      After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:

         (a)     if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

       (b)      if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

3.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

4.      Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
                                             - 13 -


        (a)      if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;

       (b)     if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the
Grant Account; or
         (c)     if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may
be.

5.       The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall
notify the Recipient of its determination.

6.      (a)      If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

        (b)     If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.

        (c)      The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
^   ._
                                           -15-

                                         Annex A

                                             to

                                      SCHEDULE 1

                              Operation of Special Account
                               When Withdrawals Are Not
                              Report-based Disbursements

1.     For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount
of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.      Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

        (a)      For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall
have requested.

         (b)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

3.     The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
                                         -16-

                                       Annex B

                                           to

                                    SCHEDULE1

                             Operation of Special Account
                               When Withdrawals Are
                             Report-based Disbursements

1.      Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

2.      Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month
period following the date of such reports.
                                            -17-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                Description of the Project

        The objective of the Project is to expand access to comprehensive and evidence-
based HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs in Participating Countries by:
(a) supporting a network of learning sites for the training of health care practitioners; (b)
increasing the capacity of health care practitioners; (c) enhancing the delivery of
HN/AIDS-related services; (d) strengthening linkages between prevention and care
interventions; and (e) expanding South-South partnerships.

         The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Health Care Practitioner Training

         Carrying out short-term (non-diploma) training courses for health care
practitioners, including physicians, nurses, counselor supervisors, laboratory technicians,
and HIV/AIDS program managers, in primary areas of "thematic" training focus,
including TB/HIV programming, using a training-of-trainers approach.

Part B: Monitoring_
                  Evaluating and Knowledge Sharing

1.      Establishing a monitoring and evaluation, system to enable rapid synthesis and
sharing of lessons for continued strengthening of the Project.

2.     Dissemination of HN/AIDS-related program information to ensure greater
knowledge sharing between and within Participating Countries.

3.     Developing a continuing education program, including distance learning
approaches to share experiences and enhance skills.

Part C: Project Coordination

1.      Developing the capacities for strong coordination among implementing,
coordinating, and governing agencies in Participating Countries.

2.      Strengthening the capacities of the PCU to carry out its administrative, fiduciary,
and technical responsibilities under the Project.



             The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008.
                                           - 18 -

                                     SCHEDULE 3

                                      Procurement

Section I.      General

A.      All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with
the provisions of this Schedule.

B.      All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV
of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this
Schedule.
C.      The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts,
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.
Section II.    Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other
               than Consultants' Services)

A.      International Comoetitive Bidding.

         Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Participating Countries
and works to be carried out by domestic contractors of Participating Countries.

B.      Other Procurement Procedures

1.      National Competitive Bidding

        Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and works
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding.
2.      Shopping

       Goods and civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping.
P                                               - 19-

    3.      Procurement from UN Agencies. Goods may be procured directly from the
                                       ncies.
    United Nations Development Programme Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office,
    United Nations Children's Fund Procurement and Assembly Center, United Nations
    Population Fund or World Health Organization in accordance with the provisions of
    paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines.
    Section IIl.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

    A:      Duality- and Cost-based Selection
    1.       Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants' services shall
    be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection.
    For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants
    for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise
    entirely consultants from Participating Countries.
    B:      Other Procedures

    1.      Duality-based Selection. Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet
    the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured
    under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the
    provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
    2.      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications

            Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
    procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1,
    3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines.

    3.      Least-cost Selection.

             Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements of
    paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on
    the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and
    3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

    4.      Single Source Selection

            Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph
    3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the
    Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
    paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.
            Individual Consultants
                                            -20-

         Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a
sole-source basis.

Section IV:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisio

1.      Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient,
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) each contract
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (c) each contract for
consultants' services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more; and (d) each contract for individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more.

2.      All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
                                           -21-


                                     SCHEDULE 4

                                Implementation Program

A.      Overall Project Implementation Oversieht

1.       The Steering Committee shall be responsible for supervision and monitoring of
Project implementation, and shall consist of representatives of the Ministries of Health,
National AIDS Councils/Commissions, Ministries of Finance and Civil Society
Organizations of the Participating Countries. For the first Project Year, a representative
from Kenya shall be chair of the Steering Committee, and a representative from Tanzania
shall be vice-chair. These positions shall rotate among the Participating Countries in
subsequent Project Years. The Steering Committee shall meet bi-annually.

2.      The Recipient shall host the Project Coordination Unit in a form and with
functions satisfactory to the Association, including a coordinator and four program
officers. Staff of the Project Coordination Unit shall be appointed by, and under the
supervision of the Steering Committee, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association.

3.       Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project Coordination Unit
shall: (a) apply the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project
Operational Manual; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit the Project Operational
Manual to be amended or waived, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association,
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.

4.     Within six months of the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Steering
Committee shall appoint an independent auditor on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including the terms of reference approved in Section 5.01 (d), and in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

B.Work Plans

5.      The Project Coordination Unit shall cause all public and private institutions
participating in the Project to prepare and furnish annual work plans in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.

C.Reports

6.      The Recipient shall:

        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
                                           -22-


         (b)     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about November of each year, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a)
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and

         (c)     review with the Association, by December of the second Project Year, or
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b)
of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
     Q   VELOP4f 4,

                  ^


   7
Ou'

                          CERTIFICATE
 ^Mr
         IDA      '




I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.




For Vice President and Corporate Secretary
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
