                                 Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                               Report No: AB170

Project Name                    AFRICA - African Regional Capacity Building Network for HIV/AIDS
                                Prevention, Treatment, and Care
Region                          Africa Regional Office
Sector                          Health (100%)
Theme                           HIV/AIDS (P)
Project                         P080406
Borrower(s)                     UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Implementing Agency(ies)        OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
                                Government of Tanzania, Office of the Prime Minister
                                Address: P.O. Box 3021, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
                                Contact Person: ARCAN Project Coordinator
                                Tel: 255-22-724-951          Fax: 255-22-121-981          Email: ps@pmo.go.tz
Environment Category            C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared               June 23, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date             April 19, 2004
Bank Approval Date              September 21, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background

Background

Despite increased levels of political commitment and financial investment at both national and
international levels in recent years, there still exists substantial deficiencies in the development and
provision of relevant and comprehensive training for health care practitioners involved in the
design and implementation of HIV/AIDS-related prevention, care, and treatment interventions.
Experience has demonstrated that the impact of such intensified investment and advocacy efforts
will be constrained, however, without improved capacity and training among health care
practitioners, particularly among those already heavily engaged in HIV/AIDS-related service
delivery.

There is a consequent need to develop human resource development/management strategies that
take into account the impact of the epidemic on national health systems. Basic pre- and in-service
training, as well as continuing education, will be necessary to produce qualified health personnel
in sufficient numbers to effectively respond to HIV/AIDS. Given maturing epidemics and
increasing demands on the health sector across the African continent, the development of high
quality and regionally-relevant curricula, training materials and programs (including distance
learning modules) for health care practitioners at all levels can be viewed to be a public good.
The development of ARCAN as a subregional project enables the potential harmonization of
approaches, with respect to improved HIV/AIDS-related capacity development, and greater
knowledge-sharing across countries. The ARCAN Project will place particular emphasis on
ensuring that its training programs are fully delivered by recognized subregional institutions,
working in close partnership with the public and private sectors, civil society organizations,
intersectoral programs, and with a wide range of technical partners.

                                                   2
                                                                                                   PID




Health Sector Capacity Gaps

Countries receiving support under the MAP program, including Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania,
currently possess limited ability to provide prevention, care and treatment services for people
living with HIV/AIDS, including the management of simple opportunistic infections. Issues
surrounding the ability to provide comprehensive HIV/AIDS-related services in resource-limited
settings require substantial capacity enhancement among health care practitioners at all levels.

Part of this capacity gap results from the fact that an effective response to HIV/AIDS requires
additional skills and approaches that have not always been characteristic of traditional health
systems. Additionally, in most developing countries, health systems were relatively weak and
under-resourced prior to the advent of AIDS, which has since served to exacerbate these
institutional and financial vulnerabilities. Maturing epidemics are now placing greater strains on
these already over-stretched systems, as the demand for health services continues to grow in
parallel with increasing morbidity and mortality. HIV/AIDS also has led to a resurgence in
tuberculosis, a lethal synergy which urgently requires additional efforts and resources to redress.
The combined impact of this "dual epidemic" at country-level generally includes a dramatically
increased workload for health care practitioners, over-crowding of health facilities at all levels,
high hospital bed occupancy rates, and more frequent shortages/stock-outs of medical
commodities and basic pharmaceuticals.

In addition to the above complexities, the output of health care providers in high prevalence
countries can be substantially reduced due to attrition/burn-out, morbidity and mortality among
co-workers, personal illness, illness among family members/relatives, frequent absence to attend
funerals, and perceived risk of occupational transmission of HIV infection. Two decades of
experience with HIV/AIDS has clearly indicated that the "business as usual" approach to
addressing such health sector challenges will not suffice. A more comprehensive, coordinated,
and inter-sectoral response to health sector capacity development will require greater government
stewardship, particularly with respect to Ministries of Health and National HIV/AIDS
Councils/Commissions, in close partnership with private sector and civil society entities.




Epidemic Status in ARCAN Countries


Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania are among the most heavily affected countries by the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. UNAIDS estimates that as of December 2001, the national adult prevalence rate in
Ethiopia was 6.4 percent indicating that 2.1 million Ethiopians (adults and children) were living
with HIV/AIDS. There were also estimated to be nearly 1 million AIDS orphans (under the age
of 15 years) in Ethiopia at this point. The national adult prevalence rate in Kenya was estimated
to be 15 percent in December 2001, with 2.5 million individuals living with HIV/AIDS and nearly
900,000 orphans. In Tanzania, the corresponding adult prevalence rate was estimated to be 7.8

                                                  3
                                                                                                   PID


percent, with 1.5 million individuals living with HIV/AIDS and over 800,000 orphans, to date.


2. Objectives
The development objective of the ARCAN project is to expand access to comprehensive and
evidence-based HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and care programs by supporting a network of
subregional "learning sites" for the training of health care practitioners. The project will support
HIV/AIDS-related health sector human resource capacity building in Kenya, Ethiopia, and
Tanzania using a "training-of-trainers" model. It is expected that, as a result of increased
capacity among health care practitioners in the subregion, this project will contribute to the
enhanced delivery of HIV/AIDS-related services, stronger linkages between prevention and care
interventions, and expanded South-South partnerships.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's support to this project brings a broad development perspective to addressing
HIV/AIDS, experience in designing and implementing national HIV/AIDS project in more than 25
African countries, a knowledge sharing platform with the network of practitioners from all
approved and pipeline MAP projects, expertise from other relevant development sectors,
partnerships with numerous regional and international technical bodies (including UNAIDS and
the Global Fund for AIDS, TB, and Malaria), and the potential to address HIV/AIDS-related
resource gaps at both the national and subregional levels. The development of new means of
sharing knowledge and building capacity in client countries is also a core function of the Bank.


4. Description
The ARCAN program aims to achieve an optimal balance between addressing prevention,
treatment, care, and support issues. In the development of the project sub-components,
prevention and care have been explicitly treated as part of a continuum, versus as competing or
discrete entities.

The proposed ARCAN project components include the following:

(1) Health care practitioner training. The project will support the implementation of short-term
(non-diploma) training courses for health care practitioners at various levels, including physicians,
nurses, counselor supervisors, laboratory technicians, and HIV/AIDS program managers. All
programs will follow the training-of trainers (TOT) approach in order to maximize the impact of
this capacity-building project.

(2) Monitoring and evaluation and knowledge sharing. The proposed project will prioritize the
establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) that would enable the rapid
synthesis and sharing of lessons and also their application to the continued strengthening of the
program. Routine dissemination of HIV/AIDS-related program information would also be
financed under this component to ensure greater knowledge sharing between and within countries.
As part of its continuing education emphasis, ARCAN will explore options for distance learning
to maximize resources and to ensure a broader regional approach for sharing experiences and

                                                   4
                                                                                                  PID


enhancing skills.

(3) Program coordination. This component would support the development of strong
coordination and capacity building between ARCAN countries and its implementing,
coordinating, and governing agencies. A major focus of this component would involve providing
the ARCAN Project Coordination Unit with support to conduct its administrative, fiduciary, and
technical responsibilities.

1. Health care practitioner training
2. Monitoring and evaluation and knowledge sharing
3. Program coordination
Unallocated

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IDA ($10.00)
Total Project Cost: $10.00

6. Implementation
The multi-country nature of this "learning" project necessitates the development of institutional
and implementation arrangements that are simplified and flexible to as large an extent as possible.


Structure of the Steering Committee: The Steering Committee (SC) represents the highest policy
and governance body for the ARCAN network. Key features of the SC include:

        i) A composition of 14 members, four each from of Ethiopia and Kenya, and six from
        Tanzania (four from the Mainland and two from Zanzibar); further details regarding the
        SC composition are presented below;
        ii) The head of the ARCAN Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to serve as SC secretary;
        iii) The position of SC chairperson, and vice-chairperson, to be rotated between member
        countries and meeting locations to be rotated between ARCAN countries;
        iv) SC meetings held twice each year; the first meeting would specifically review and
        approve the annual work plan and budget, and provide overall policy guidance; the
        second meeting, at mid-year, would review and discuss progress with implementation,
        financial and other technical reports, as required.


Project Coordination Unit

A small Project Coordination Unit (PCU), of five full-time professional staff, is responsibility for
the coordination of all ARCAN activities. The PCU, reports to the Steering Committee, and is
responsible for the daily management and coordination of the overall program. It will operate as
an autonomous body. The ARCAN Project Coordinator (i.e. the PCU head) will act ex-officio as
Secretary of the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee will select the head of the PCU

                                                    5
                                                                                                   PID


and the four PCU Program Officers based on a competitive process to which candidates from all
ARCAN countries are invited to apply. Nationals of other African countries are also eligible to
apply, although preference will be given to candidates from Ethiopia, Kenya, and Tanzania.

In order to maximize efficiency, the project will adopt a faire-faire philosophy, contracting-out
services when possible, rather than cultivating in-house expertise. As a result, a number of key
project management functions will be contracted out by the PCU (to independent firms, agencies
and/or independent consultants) on the basis of one-year, renewable, performance-based
contracts, in accordance with Bank guidelines. This out-sourcing will include financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, the annual audit, and specific technical
assessments.



7. Sustainability
The project is likely to be sustained to the extent that there is strong ownership, participation and
commitment from ARCAN countries. It is unlikely that the Government of the partner countries
will be able to fully finance ARCAN in the medium-term, and consequently it is likely that
multilateral, bilateral, and/or private sector financing will be required for program continuation
and expansion beyond the four-year implementation period of the project. The overall project risk
is considered to be substantial because of the multi-country nature of this project and its
innovative nature.


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Some of the key lessons of learned over the past three years of MAP implementation, include the
following:

         Genuine stakeholder involvement in both preparation and implementation is
        fundamental to effective programs. Programs are more effective when people living with
        HIV/AIDS, health professionals, program managers, suppliers, civil society members and
        others touched by the disease are actively engaged in deciding what is to be done and then
        ensuring that it is done. The project preparation process for ARCAN has been highly
        participatory in nature and has involved on-going dialogue with a broad range of technical
        and implementing partners.

         Capacity building at all levels is critical to the development of a long-term and
        sustained response to HIV/AIDS. The ARCAN project is focusing its efforts on the
        expansion of capacity within various levels of the health sector.

         Addressing subregional or cross-border HIV/AIDS needs are critical to a
        comprehensive response to the epidemic. Such programs, promote a public good of
        regional scope, provide services to communities/populations that may not be reached as
        effectively or quickly through national-level efforts alone, and realize economies of scale
        that would not be practical to attain solely through country-level action. Such efforts also

                                                    6
                                                                                                    PID


        can serve to catalyze expanded South-South sharing of lessons and experiences.

         Management of HIV/AIDS programs calls for exceptional measures. The initial
        response to the MAP program in many countries has been to treat these projects as any
        other, when the urgency of the problem and its devastation call for unconventional
        responses. Implementation of key aspects, including financial management, procurement,
        monitoring and evaluation and selected service delivery, have usually been more effective
        when they are "contracted" rather than done "in house." This out-sourcing principle has
        been kept foremost in mind in designing the project coordination mechanisms for
        ARCAN.

         Scaling up existing programs and building capacity for HIV/AIDS activities have been
        more difficult than originally expected. Capacity building needed for scaling up has two
        distinct components: enhancing skills; and increasing the quantity of existing skills and
        institutional infrastructure. Through its explicit focus on human resource capacity building
        and the use of a "training of trainers" model, the ARCAN project will address these
        constraints to the best of its ability.

         Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems are the key to effective implementation. In
        an experimental and learning process, a good M&E system is absolutely essential. The
        ARCAN project will focus on ensuring that strong and flexible M&E arrangements are
        developed during the project preparation period.

         Partnerships matter. Addressing HIV/AIDS effectively can only be done by genuine
        collaboration--within government, between the public and private sectors and civil
        society, among donors, and specialized technical agencies. Effective partnership involves
        sharing power and responsibility during program design and implementation. The ARCAN
        project has already established strong partnerships with a number of partners from the
        private sector, academia, civil society, in addition to a regional and international technical
        entities. This process will be actively continued and the potential for other strategic
        partnerships, particularly with respect to distance learning and telemedicine will be
        examined during project appraisal and implementation.


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues    : Given that the project content will consist of training which will take place in
pre-existing training institutions, the ARCAN project is not anticipated to have adverse
environment effects. The project has been classified as Category C by the Africa Safeguard
Policies Enhancement Team (ASPEN), as per OD 4.01.



10. List of factual technical documents:

                                                  7
                                                                                                 PID


11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Sheila Dutta
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: (202) 473-8390
      Fax: (202) 522-7396

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

