FILE COPY
ite,Jor No. 13i'9a~MLI
Appraisal of a Second Educatior- and
T-rair-ing Project in Mali
lune 24, 1977
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
orily in the performance of their official duties. its contenits mnay not
other,xise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malian Franc (MF)
US$1.00        X MF 490
MEASURES
l m      -  3.28 ft.
i m2     =  10.76 sq. ft.
2
1 ik     =  0.38 sq. mile
i hectare - 2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...... ...........................        i-v
I ,   INTRODUCTION ............................                          1
II.   THE SETTING          .............................................  2
A.   Development Setting and Prospects .2
B.   Organization and Efficiency of the Education System.          3
C.   Output of the Education System
and Employment Potential .........................          7
D.   Government's Plans for the Development of Education
and Training .....................................          8
E.   The Role of the Project ............................          8
III.   THE PROJECT ...........................                             9
A.   Summary        ................................               9
B.   Project Components .................................          9
C.   Project Costs ............................... * ......       13
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION .......       ...................................   16
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................    ..      18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mali in June 1976. The mission consisted of Messrs. M. Wilson (general
educator), D. Brewin and J. Crosnier (agricultural educators), all Bank
staff, and Mr. P. Bussat (architect), UNESCO consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oicial duties. lIs contents may not otherwiae be diulosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
l    Comparative Education Indicators
2    Population
3    Recurrent Expenditures for Education and Training
4    Primary and Lower Secondary Projected Enrollments
5    Summary of Estimated Project Costs
6    Summary of Technical Assistance Requirements
7    Implementation Schedule
8    Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1   Organization Chart of the Education System
2    Organization Chart of the Project Unit
3    Organization Chart of the Ministry of Rural Development
MAPS
IBRD (1) Mali: Second Education Project - Project Item Locations (12697)
IBRD (2) Mali: Major Rural Development Operations (12698)



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Opérations de Développement:                  State Development Corporations
ADF:                                          African Development Fund
DNAFLA:  Direction Nationale de l'Alphabé-  National Directorate of Functional
tisation Fonctionnelle et de la    Literacy and Applied Linguistics
Linguistique Appliquée               (MEN)
DNFAR:   Direction Nationale de la Forma-   National Directorate of Rural
tion et de l'Animation Rurales      Training (MDR)
FAC:     Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération       French Bilateral Assistance Fund
FED:     Fonds Européen de Développement    European Development Fund
IPGP:    Institut de Productivité et de       National Institute for Management
Gestion Prévisionnelle
IPN:     Institut Pédagogique National        National Pedagogical Institute (MEN)
IPR:     Institut Polytechnique Rural         Rural Polytechnical Institute (MEN)
(Katibougou)
MDR:     Ministère du Développement           Ministry of Rural Development
Rural
MEN:     Ministère de l'Education             Ministry of Education
Nationale
OACV:    Opération Arachide et Cultures       Groundnut/Foodcrop Development
Vivrières                            Scheme (MDR) - a Bank-financed
agricultural project (Credit
491-MLI)
USAID:                                        United States Agency for
International Development






MAL1
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                      1.24 million km2
Population (1975)                         5.7 million
GNP per capita (1975)                     US$90
Education
Full-Time
Teachers
Teacher:
Pupil      %
Level                             Enrollments   Total    Ratio    Malian
(i)  Primary (A)                        261,000 /1   5,393    48.0        100.0
(ii)  Lower Secondary (A)                  36,800 /2   1,730    21.0        98.0
(iii)  Upper Secondary (B)                   7,464         550    13.0       54.0 /3
General                            3,264          225      -        41.0
Technical/Scientific               4,200          325      -        59.0
(iv)  University                            2,736         222       -       35.0
Engineering (B)                       322          50     6.0       10.0
Agriculture (B)                       523          29    18.0       70.0
Administration (B)                    488          33    15.0       66.0
Medicine (B)                          158          45     3.5       69.0
Education (A)                       1,200          65    18.0       32.0
Other (B)                              45          -       -         -
(v) Vocational Training (B)
Agriculture
Lower                              461           39    12.0      100.0
Middle                              782          -       -         -
Teacher Training
Lower                            1,058           67    16.0       87.0
Middle                              783          69    11.0       74.0
Industrial/Comm.
Lower                               692          -       -         -
Middle                            1,024          -       -         -
/1   22% of 6-13 age group.
/2   6% of the 4-18 age group.
/3   Technical assistance:  56% France, 31% USSR, 13% other.
(A) 1975/76 data.
(B) 1974/75 data.






MALI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Mali, for which
an IDA credit of US$10.0 million is proposed.
Background
ii.       Like many West African countries, Mali has made significant progress
in developing its formal education system since independence. Perhaps more
than any other country in the region, it owes its development to self-help,
the majority of primary and lower secondary schools and rural adult education
centers having been constructed and financed by local communities. With the
help of external donors, the Government has built and equipped most of the
schools and facilities required for upper secondary and higher education.
Now scarce resources, together with the progressive saturation of the modern
sector, impose slower overall growth for the future. At the same time, there
is a need to improve the quality of those levels and branches of education and
training which are important for economic development, to strengthen planning
and management to make the system more efficient, and to continue research and
development of low-cost basic education to provide a greater proportion of the
population with the opportunity to be literate and numerate. At the primary
and lower secondary levels, enrollments remain low, 22% and 6% respectively of
the age groups concerned, and present expansion is limited to keeping pace
with population growth. Illiteracy is an estimated 85%-- an obstacle to the
country' s development.
Progress in the First Education Project
iii.      The first Bank Group education project (Credit 420-MLI of July 1973)
provided US$5.0 million to assist the Government in improving the quality of
science and technology education in lower secondary schools and of technical
and vocational education. It also financed technical assistance in planning,
including a preinvestment study to help the Government identify low-cost
literacy and numeracy programs for children and adults. At the lower secondary
level, 11 science/technology centers, serving groups of urban schools, were to
be built. In the area of vocational and technical education, classrooms and
workshops serving the country's middle-level industrial and commercial vocational
institute and the technical high school were to be renovated and re-equipped.
However, inflation caused a substantial cost overrun, and only 6 of the 11
science/technology centers can be built under the project. While the Government
seeks further IDA financing for science and technology education in the
proposed second project, it has now decided to concentrate its efforts on
improving the programs of rural lower secondary schools, since it considers
employment opportunities to be greatest in the rural sector. Of the five
urban centers which were deferred, the Government seeks financing under the
second project for only two, to serve urban areas where the lack of facilities
for science and technology instruction is serious.



iv.       While it is too early to assess the educational impact of the
project, progress in its implementation is good. All construction and equip-
ment contracts have been awarded, and the project facilities are expected to
be completed by mid-1978. The first phase of the preinvestment study, iden-
tifying specific basic education programs, has been completed and the Govern-
ment seeks financing to develop and test these programs under the second
project.
v.        Experience in the First Education Project has made clear the need
to develop a government service responsible for educational buildings and
equipment procurement. For this reason, the Government intends to make the
Project Unit established under the first project an integral part of such a
service. At the same time, this experience has emphasized the importance
of ensuring good communication with all government services involved in the
project, and therefore a liaison committee will be established to advise
on the implementation of the proposed second project.
Objectives and Description of the Proposed Second Project
vi.       Consistent with the objectives established for the first project,
the second project would extend the reform of science, technology and related
instruction to rural lower secondary schools, and would finance the develop-
ment of low-cost basic education programs. In addition, the project would
seek to meet specific manpower training requirements by: training and up-
grading managers and planners for priority sectors; training an increased
number of junior agricultural and livestock technicians; and extending the
functional literacy and numeracy programs first supported by a rural develop-
ment project (Credit 491-MLI).
vii.      To meet these objectives, the proposed credit would assist in the
financing of:
A.   Science/technology education by:
(i)  constructing, furnishing and equipping two
laboratory/workshop complexes to serve urban
lower secondary schools in Gao and Kayes, and
technology and science facilities for about
20 rural lower secondary schools in the Sikasso
region;
(ii) providing 11 man-years of specialists for cur-
riculum development, program evaluation and
teacher training.
B.   Basic education by:
providing equipment, materials and about 5 man-
years of specialists to develop and implement low-
cost basic education programs identified by the
preinvestment study financed under the first proj-
ect; and 3 man-years of fellowships for training
staff.



- iii -
C.   Agricultural education and training by:
(i) constructing, rehabilitating, furnishing and
equipping a lower level junior agricultural
technician training center, a livestock tech-
nician training center, and a center for ex- J
tension workers specialized in food crops;
f inancing about 15 man-years of specialists
and the costs of instructor upgrading courses,
program evaluation and follow-up studies on
graduates of the centers;
(ii) constructing and equipping three regional
inspectorates and equipping about 1,600 func-
tional literacy centers; financing the train-
ing of instructors and about 56 man-years of
local specialists for the supervision and
evaluation of the programs and for the pro-
duction of instruction materials and radio
programs for graduates of the programs;
D.   Management and planning by:
constructing, furnishing and equipping a
National Institute for Management to train
managers, planners and administrators for
priority sectors of the economy, including
education administrators and planners;
financing about 14 man-years of specialists
and consultants to permit the Institute to
implement new courses, together with 10
fellowships for training Institute staff.
E.   Project administration by:
providing 10 man-years of specialists and
18 man-years of support staff, together
with equipment, vehicles and the operating
costs of the Project Unit.
Project Implementation
viii.     The Project Unit created under Credit 420-MLI has proved effective
and would administer the project on behalf of the Ministries of Education
and of Rural Development. The project director is ably assisted by an archi-
tect, an administrator, two educational specialists and local support staff.
These full-time staff would be reinforced to meet the additional tasks im-
posed by the proposed project (architectural design and supervision of con-
struction) by two building engineers, two draftsmen, three site supervisors



- iv -
and a senior accountant. The Unit would design and supervise all project
construction, and would be responsible for procurement and accounting. An
advisory committee, representative of agencies and services concerned with
the project, would be established.
Project Costs
ix.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$12.0 million, of which
US$0.8 million are taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of
US$7.1 million. Contingencies are estimated as follows: 9% for civil works,
and 10Z for furniture, equipment and materials. The overall provision for
price escalation is 16%. Construction costs have been estimated on the basis
of recently awarded contracts for similar works, adjusted for price escalation.
Space and other standards are comparable with those of similar facilities
financed by the Bank Group. The average cost per square meter would be
US$290, which is reasonable given the paucity of local materials, the disper-
sion of the sites and Mali's remoteness from the coast. Expatriate personnel
costs have been estimated at an average of US$50,000 per man-year, inclusive
of contingencies, which reflects UNDP and government experience in Mali. The
recurrent expenditure incurred by the project institutions is expected to
constitute about 1.5% of the Governnent's budget for education and training in
1981, when they will be in operation.
Procurement and Disbursements
x.        Civil works and furniture contracts, estimated at US$4.5 million,
would be for small and widely dispersed buildings at some 26 sites. Such
contracts would be awarded in accordance with local competitive procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Small scattered buildings, totaling US$0.4
million, would be constructed by force account. Orders for equipment and
materials, estimated to cost approximately US$2.1 million, would be grouped
wherever possible in lots of not less than US$50,000, and contracts would be
awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Small equipment contracts, amounting to less than US$50,000, would
be awarded on the basis of quotations or through local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
xi.       Funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 75% of total expenditures for civil works - US$3.4
million;
(b)  75% of total expenditures for furniture - US$0.10
million;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for equipment and mate-
rials - US$2.1 million;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for personnel and foreign
expenditures for fellowships - US$2.9 million; and
(e) revolving fund - US$0.2 million.



US$1.3 million of the proposed credit, or 13%, would be unallocated to cover
contingencies and price increases. Funds amounting to about US$1.0 million
for the functional literacy program would be disbursed direct to the Opéeration
Arachide et Cultures Vivriëres (OACV), which would administer them.
xii.      To avoid delays in the progress of work under this project due to
the Government's difficulties in prefinancing the expenditures to be reim-
bursed under the credit and in order to provide working capital, a revolv-
ing fund of US$200,000 will be opened in a local bank immediately after the
effectiveness of the credit. The Government will be allowed to use this
account for project expenditures eligible for financing under the credit.
The revolving fund will be administered by the Project Unit.
xiii.     The Project Unit, together with the OACV, would maintain detailed
project accounts in accordance with accepted accounting principles, and an
annual audit of all project expenditures would be conducted by independent
auditors and submitted to the Government and IDA within three months of the
end of each fiscal year.
xiv.      The proposed credit of US$10.0 million would finance 89% of proj-
ect costs, net of taxes and duties, or 100% of foreign exchange costs and
71% of local costs.  The project would be implemented over the five-year
period 1977-82.
xv.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$10.0 million.






MALI
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Discussions with the Government of Mali on educational development
priorities began in March 1976, when an IDA mission visited Bamako to iden-
tify a second education project. The first project, appraised in FY 1973,
is discussed in paras. 1.02-1.05. The identification mission reviewed the
Governnent's priorities, which include the further improvement of science
and technology instruction in secondary schools and the development of low-
cost programs for basic education. At that time, the Government also re-
quested that IDA consider assisting the Government in meeting critical man-
power training needs for senior and middle level managers for the public and
private sectors; for junior agricultural and livestock technicians; and in
extending an ongoing functional literacy program for farmers. The proposed
second project is intended to meet these priorities and was appraised in
June 1976 by an IDA mission comprising Messrs. M. Wilson (general educator),
D. Brewin and J. Crosnier (agricultural educators), and P. Bussat (architect,
Unesco Regional Office, Dakar).
First Education Project
1.02      The first project (Credit 420-ILI of July 1973) provided US$5.0 mil-
lion to assist the Government in improving the quality of science and tech-
nology programs in lower secondary schools and of technical and vocational
education. It also sought to help the Government identify low-cost programs
for providing literacy and numeracy to a greater proportion of children and
adults than could be educated through the formal education system. At the
lower secondary level, Il science/technology centers, serving groups of
urban schools, were to be built. In the area of vocational and technical
education, classrooms and workshops at the country's middle-level industrial
and commercial vocational institute and at the technical high school were
to be renovated and re-equipped. The credit also financed technical assis-
tance in planning, including a preinvestment study with the objectives of
assessing the educational needs of the population groups untouched by the
formal education system, evaluating the potential of existing programs to meet
these needs, and, where necessary, identifying new programs to be developed.
1.03      Due to inflation and delays in design which might have led to a
potential cost overrun of 70% on construction, the Government decided to
defer building five of the Il science/technology centers to bring the proj-
ect within the costs foreseen at appraisal. The Government still seeks IDA
assistance in financing two of the five deferred centers which are intended
to serve schools in two towns (Gao and Kayes) where there are pressing needs.
However, it has decided not to proceed with the other three since it consid-
ers urban secondary schools to be relatively well provided for and attaches
a higher priority to the introduction of new programs for rural secondary
students in science, technology and agriculture.



- 2 -
1.04      Construction contracts for six science/technology centers and for
renovation and construction at the vocational school have been let and work
is expected to be completed by mid-1978. Equipment contracts have also
been awarded and delivery will be on schedule. Science, technology and
domestic science curricula have been developed by the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN) with technical assistance financed under the project. In July
1977, the first group of teachers intended to staff the six centers will
undergo courses to use the new curricula and the accompanying instructional
materials and equipment. The national preinvestment study of alternatives for
developing low-cost basic education programs has progressed well. The Mlinistry
of Education's National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied Linguis-
tics (DNAFLA), which is responsible for conducting the study, has completed a
detailed examination of the various formal and non-formal programs that have
already been tried or are being implemented by different agencies in the
country, including functional literacy for farmers and education for young
farmers. From the lessons learned, the team has identified programs for
primary school age children, for illiterate adults, and for graduates of
functional literacy programs which the Government seeks to develop in the
second project with IDA assistance (para. 3.14).
1.05      While it is too early to assess the educational impact of the first
project, experience indicates that the reform of key programs in science and
technology requires a sustained effort and cannot be completed in four to five
years. In terms of improving planning, technical assistance to train local
counterparts on-the-job is not sufficient: there is a need for systematic
training of planners and administrators. In project implementation, it has
become clear that the Government needs a strong service, capable of planning
the provision and location of schools, and of designing and equipping them.
The Government intends to develop the existing Project Unit into such a
service. It has also become clear during implementation that careful coordi-
nation with government services concerned by the project is required. Under
the proposed project, a committee would be created to advise the Project Unit
and provide liaison with these services (para. 3.15).
II. THE SETTING
A.   Development Setting and Prospects
2.01      Mali, one of the poorest countries in Africa (US$95 per capita
GNP), is a landlocked country with some 5.7 million people, most of whom
live in rural areas. Growing at about 2.3% annually, this population will
double by the year 2000, when the under-25 years age group will represent
about 50% of the total population of Il million. Although there are several
major ethnic groups--Bambara, Peulh, Songhai and Tuareg--Mali has a high
degree of social unity. Undoubtedly a contributing factor in this sense
of unity is the Bambara language, the lingua franca of commerce, which is
spoken readily by most Malians. French, the official language, is spoken only
by a small minority.



- 3 -
2.02      The country's economy is dependent on agriculture and livestock,
which generate about 43% of the GDP (1972) and most of its exports. Ground-
nuts and cotton are the main cash crops. Rice production is being developed
in the Niger Valley, complementing the other major food crops, millet and
sorghum, which account for 85% of the two million hectares under cultiva-
tion. At least 90% of the work force is engaged in rural activities.
2.03      Agriculture and livestock will continue providing the main develop-
ment possibilities for Mali's largely rural population and some ten major
development projects are under way in agriculture, including four financed
by IDA. Geographically, these projects cover most of the country's cultivable
area and concern the majority of farm families. The Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment (MRD) is the agency responsible for these projects and has entrusted
those concerned with cash crops such as groundnuts and cotton to large-scale
semi-autonomous state development corporations (Opérations) such as the Ope'ra-
tion Arachide et Cultures Vivriëres (OACV), which is implementing Credit
491-MLI. As a result of the droughts in the 1968-74 period, these corpora-
tions have broadened their activities to include food crops and livestock.
The Opérations provide a reliable means for communication and logistics in
remote rural areas, and the Government is relying increasingly on them as a
vehicle for delivering other services at the village level such as functional
literacy for farmers (para. 2.10).
2.04      Industrial development, largely the responsibility of state-owned
corporations, is limited mainly to import substitution, including textiles,
matches and beverages, and to the processing of local products such as
cotton, sugar, tobacco and fish. Few additional opportunities have been
identified at this stage for the creation of other industries.
B.   Organization and Efficiency of the Education System
Primary Education
2.05      The six-year primary school program seeks to give children a ground-
ing in French, math and social studies. Access is strongly in favor of the
urban population, who are better able to finance school construction; Bamako
has an enrollment ratio of about 80% and, nationwide, towns with over 8,000
inhabitants account for about 35% of total enrollment. Overall, only 22%
of the 6-13 age group attends school, and as few as 10% in some rural areas.
The average percentage of girls in primary education is about 36% (para.             'j
2.12).  Dropout and repetition rates are high and it may take the equiva-
lent of 12 instructional years to produce a graduate. Since unit costs are
already relatively high for the region (approximately US$30 per student year),
primary education in its present form cannot be provided to a significantly
larger proportion of school-age children. Some improvements that might re-
duce costs and improve effectiveness are: the use of local languages, more
efficient pedagogical methods, and a concentration on teaching basic skills
in arithmetic, reading and writing. The Government is considering these
possibilities and the preinvestment study of basic education (para. 1.04)
would seek to develop and test programs based on such approaches.



- 4-
Lower and Upper Secondary Education
2.06       Social pressure for education is strong at the secondary level.
About 50% of the grade 6 students enter lower secondary schools and enroll-
ments have increased from about 18,700 in 1967 to about 38,600 in 1976
(Annex 5), with girls representing about 25% of enrollments at this level
(para. 2.12). Growth in enrollments has not been accompanied by sufficient
improvements in teacher training, programs and facilities for key subjects
such as science and technology, and therefore the achievement in these sub-
jects of students entering upper secondary schools or vocational programs
suffers. An indication of this is that all high school students are now
obliged to take a remedial course in math and science in grade 10.
2.07       The Government has taken steps to improve lower secondary programs
in key subjects such as science and technology (para. 1.05), and complementary
programs to improve instruction in math and foreign languages are also under
development. In addition, the Government has been working since 1972 to adapt
the program of rural lower secondary schools to meet rural employment require-
ments. New programs in applied science, technology and farming are being
introduced into the curriculum with the help and encouragement of the local
development project staff. The school year is also being changed to permit
students to carry out agricultural practical work as part of the school pro-
gram. The Government is carrying out the first phase of this reform in the
Sikasso region, where the largely farming population provides strong financial
support for the schools. Moreover, development projects in the region such as
Mali-Sud (Credit 669-MLI) should offer good prospects for economic development
and employment.
Higher Education
2.08       Social demand for higher education remains high and most qualified
upper secondary graduates enter the university. The university, increasingly
overcrowded, is hampered in its efforts to address national manpower needs by
the inflexibility of its programs and by its selection methods, which provide
insufficient opportunities for public or private employees to continue their
education and to improve their job-related skills. The Government recognizes
the dangers implicit in increasing enrollments and plans to bring the intake
of higher education institutes in line with employment possibilities. It is
also developing institutions designed to meet specific needs. One such insti-
tution is the Institut de Productivité et de Gestion Prévisionnelle (IPGP),
which the Government seeks to extend and diversify to provide training and
upgrading courses in management for senior and middle level staff in: (a)
the public enterprises, (b) major services of government, and (c) development
projects. The IPGP will receive UNDP technical assistance up to 1978. How-
ever, the IPGP requires additional technical assistance to develop new
courses. It also lacks adequate teaching and office space and teaching
materials. The staff are housed in cramped offices in town, and the make-
shift classrooms are located several kilometers away.



- 5 -
Agricultural Training and Farmer Education
2.09      In 1975 the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD, Chart 3) estab-
lished a National Directorate of Rural Training (Direction Nationale de la
Formation et de l'Animation Rurales - DNFAR) to improve training for junior
agricultural and livestock technicians. The junior technician program,
available in four regional centers, recruits mostly lower secondary graduates
(para. 2.07). With USAID assistance, the DNFAR plans to improve facilities
and modify programs in the junior technician program so that it can increase
output to meet the needs of the Opérations (para. 2.03) and the Ministry.
Supply is currently far below demand (para. 2.18). To do so, it must first
recruit better qualified instructors. Barriers to this are the presently
inadequate salaries and benefits.
2.10      Mali has also developed functional literacy programs for farmers
and their families.  They are financed and supervised by the Opérations and
aim to make the farmers better able to manage their own affairs. The MEN
assists the Opérations in developing, supervising and evaluating the pro-
grams. The Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI) has pro-
vided some support to the OACV in a functional literacy scheme which has
been operational since 1967, and has financed an evaluation of the scheme.
In 1976 this scheme served some 14,000 adults in 476 centers and the prelim-
inary results of the evaluation are encouraging. A successful completer can
read the local language newspaper and keep simple accounts. The OACV pro-
gram compares favorably with those of other development projects because
it is directly managed by the OACV and its staff is an integral part of the
extension services. This ensures that the program's content is well adapted
to both the farmers' and the OACV's needs and that its operation is well
supervised. Participation of a village in the functional literacy program
depends on (a) identification of the village by the local agricultural exten-
sion officer of OACV as one likely to implement new agricultural techniques,
and (b) a voluntary commitment by the village to provide trainee teachers
and to build, furnish and operate a simple center.
2.11      Middle and higher level training for agriculture and related
fields is the responsibility of the Rural Polytechnical Institute (IPR),
which is part of the university system and is administered by the MEN.
There were 1,300 enrollments in 1976, and output at both the middle and
higher levels will meet needs through 1980. The IPR is being developed
with a grant of US$5.0 million from the African Development Fund (ADF) and
US$7.5 million from the European Development Fund (FED).
Education and Women
2.12      Girls are generally under-represented in the formal education sys-
tem. Their participation is 36% in primary education, 25% in lower secondary
and progressively less in the upper levels of the system.  While distribution
data are not available, it is likely that the participation of girls in rural
areas is generally less than in urban areas. Vocational training programs
are limited to secretarial, nursing and teaching programs. In terms of



-6-
economic development, rural women are the priority since they are active in
production and in the position to change child rearing, nutrition and family
consumption patterns. The Government recognizes this and has initiated a
program with the aid of UNICEF to study the life styles of rural women with a
view to improving their impact on development. The basic education program
(para. 3.14) to be financed under the project would be carefully coordinated
with the UNICEF-aided project and draw upon its experience. The functional
literacy program to be financed under the project (para. 3.12) also addresses
the needs of women, but local custom tends to restrict participation to un-
married women.
Administration
2.13      The Ministry of Education (MEN) administers all non-agriculture-
related education and training programs. National directors are responsible
for teacher training and curriculum development, primary and lower secondary
education, upper secondary and technical education, and higher education.
A recently created directorate is responsible for educational planning and
for school construction and procurement; however, it lacks trained personnel
in all areas. The First Education Project Unit (para. 1.05) will become an
integral part of this directorate. The MEN's field organization is based
on the regional inspectorate. The regional inspectors, who have a team of
teaching advisers as well as an administrative and accounting staff, run
the primary and lower secondary schools. The lycées, though supervised by a
national directorate, have their own budgets and are administered by their
headmasters, who generally have business managers and support staff. The
majority of the ministry's administrative personnel have no formal training
in administration and management, and have acquired their experience on the
job. The Government recognizes that improving the efficiency of the education
system requires extensive upgrading of these personnel and plans to organize
courses at the IPGP (para. 2.08).
Financing of Education
2.14      Actual recurrent expenditures for 1973/74 and projected expendi-
tures for 1977/78, for all educational levels, are given in Annex 3. They
amount to about US$24.0 million, or about 30% of total Government recurrent
expenditures in 1973. Salaries account for about 60% of the entire budget
and represent about 75% of expenditures for the primary and lower secondary
levels. Compared with other countries in the region, salaries represent
a smaller allocation of the budget, and provision of simple instructional
materials is possible. Nevertheless, the salary bill remains the principal
constraint to the extension of education in Mali and is particularly signif-
icant for primary education (para. 2.05). The preinvestment study financed
under the First Education Project (para. 1.04) focuses on the financing
issue; possible solutions are community financing of salaries and structural
changes in existing programs to enable them to handle more students while
holding down costs. This is a promising approach, since communities already
finance construction of all schools through grade 9 and rural communities
build, furnish and staff functional literacy centers.



- 7-
C.   Output of the Education System
and Employment Potential
2.15      In Mali, modern sector employment opportunities lie mainly in
the civil service, the state enterprises and the agricultural development
projects. The personnel are generally young and, as elsewhere in the West
African region, the annual replacements are small. New jobs are most likely
to be created in agriculture and related industries.
2.16      While information on overall manpower requirements is limited to a
1973 study by the Government, the general indications are that the education
system is producing more graduates than there are identified needs at the
middle and higher levels (para. 2.08), with the exception of agricultural and
livestock technicians. For example, in the period 1974-78 the expected annual
output of graduates from higher education is 500, compared with identified
needs of about 350. At-the middle level there are about 2,000 graduates
annually, while identified needs are about 700. The education system's needs
for modest growth and replacements, in the 1974-78 plan, are for about 560
primary and lower secondary school teachers per year and are likely to be
met by existing programs. The general implication of this situation is that
the educational level of the work force is likely to improve.
2.17      There are some qualitative deficiencies in the output of the system
which may mean that jobs are not filled or are inadequately staffed. Despite
the Government's emphasis on science and technology in lower and upper sec-
ondary education (para. 2.07), lack of practical instruction at the lower
secondary level reduces the number of upper secondary students who study these
subjects. The consequence is that too few university students study scientific
and technological subjects. Another major deficiency of the formal education
system is that its institutions do not address the problems of training
and re-training employed workers and civil servants. This is a particular
problem at senior and middle levels. Mali has taken some positive steps to
alleviate this problem by creating the IPGP (para. 2.08) and by carrying out
an in-depth analysis of civil service personnel requirements.
Manpower Needs in Agriculture and Livestock
2.18      Recent analysis by USAID of sectoral manpower requirements reveals
specific needs for junior technicians in agriculture and livestock which
are not being met by the system. While the annual needs of the Operations
for junior agricultural technicians are about 200 through 1986, mainly for
existing posts, annual output is only 90. In the livestock sector, the out-
put from the country's only training center for livestock technicians (Ecole
des Infirmiers Vétérinaires - EIV) is less than 50% of the demand. On the
other hand, the needs for the middle and higher levels are already being met
(para. 2.11).



-8-
2.19      Success of the agricultural and livestock projects also depends
on improving farmers' knowledge and skills. At present, most farmers are
illiterate. A higher rate of literacy and numeracy would help farmers to
accept new techniques more readily, budget their revenues better, and pro-
gressively assume a more active role in managing their own development.
The Government attaches a high priority to functional literacy and farmer
training programs (para. 2.10) which address these objectives.
D.   Government's Plans for the Development of Education and Training
2.20      Planning and Management.  The Government recognizes that the growth
of enrollments will have to be carefully controlled and resources efficiently
allocated to priority programs for manpower development. In terms of higher
education numbers, the Government will try to adapt numbers and types of
graduates to the economy's needs (para. 2.08). The principal instrument
for improved planning and control of the education system will be the MEN's
national directorate for planning (para. 2.13). Complementary to thqse
measures, the MEN plans to offer upgrading courses at the IPGP (para. 2.08)
for headmasters, inspectors and school business managers with a view to
improving the efficiency of the system.
2.21      Improvement of Existing Education Programs.  The Government' s chief
priorities are: to improve instruction in science, technology and p actical
subjects for lower secondary students (para. 2.07); and to develop mcre effec-
tive programs of basic education (para. 2.05). With regard to the former,
the Government now seeks to emphasize programs which are better adapted to
the needs of rural students.
2.22      Priority Programa for Manpower Development.  The major priorities
are in the rural sector, and consist of the training of junior technicians for
the agricultural and livestock Operations (paras. 2.09, 2.18) and the comple-
mentary extension of existing functional literacy programs to farmers (paras.
2.10, 2.19). In the area of management, the Government seeks the further
development of the IPGP to enable it to offer upgrading courses for employed
senior and middle level staff in all sectors, with priority given to public
enterprises and the key government services (paras. 2.08, 2.17).
E.   The Role of the Project
2.23      Consistent with the Government's plans and the objectives established
for the first project, the second project would extend the reform of science,
technology and related instruction to rural lower secondary schools, and would
finance the development of low-cost basic education programs. In addition,
the project would seek to meet specific manpower training requirements by:
training and upgrading managers and planners for priority sectors; training
an increased number of junior agricultural and livestock technicians; and
extending the functional literacy and numeracy program first supported by a
rural development project (Credit 491-MLI).



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Summary
3.01      The project would be implemented in the period 1977-82 and would
comprise:
(a) Construction or conversion of buildings, equipment and
furniture for:
(i) two science/technology centers, originally pro-
grammed under the first project and serving groups
of urban schools; science/technology facilities
for about 20 rural lower secondary schools; and
renovation of a teacher training college special-
izing in science, technology and agriculture;
(ii) two agricultural and one livestock training center
for junior technicians;
(iii)  a national management institute;
(b) Construction, equipment and materials for a functional literacy
program.
(c) Equipment, materials, and operating expenses for the Project
Unit and for the development and testing of programs identi-
fied by the preinvestment study of basic education.
(d) Provision of 129 man-years of specialist services and
13 man-years of fellowships for items (a) i, ii, iii, (b)
and (c) above.
B.   Project Components
Lower Secondary Science and Technology Programs
3.02      The project would provide for the construction, equipment and fur-
nishing of science and technology laboratories and workshops for about 2,000
urban and 3,000 rural lower secondary students, thus increasing participation
of lower secondary students in new practical programs to about 13% of enroll-
ments at this level. The urban component would comprise the construction of
two science and technology centers at Gao and Kayes (para. 1.03) comprising
laboratories and workshops, together with office and storage space for the
center directors, teachers and support staff. The centers would serve the
needs of neighboring schools. Teachers would be trained by an existing team
of instructors in accordance with training programs and curricula designed
for the first project. The working drawings for the centers have been pre-
pared by the Project Unit, and are satisfactory.



- 10 -
3.03      The Government's current pilot program for rural schools in the
Sikasso region (para. 2.07) would be extended to provide about 20 rural
lower secondary schools with simple multipurpose science and technology
facilities, equipment, and adequate water supply. An existing teacher
training college at Louloumi would be renovated and equipped for upgrading
courses for teachers of science, technology and agriculture. In line with
existing practice, physical facilities would be constructed by local masons
or building cooperatives, employed by parents' associations, to which mate-
rials financed under the project would be supplied. The Project Unit would
be responsible for purchasing and allocating these materials, and for site
supervision. Specialists (11 man-years) would assist the National Pedagogi-
cal Institute (IPN), responsible for curriculum development and evaluation,
in developing and testing science, technology and agricultural programs
adapted to the region and in training teachers. Programs for technology
are already under preparation. Under the guidance of the IPN, the regional
inspectors would implement the program and would be provided with equipment
and vehicles to enable them to supervise the ongoing programs. During negotia-
tions the Government agreed to evaluate the new curricula to be developed
under the pilot program.
Agricultural and Livestock Technician Training Centers
3.04      The project would assist the DNFAR, the training service of the
MDR, in the improvement and expansion of junior agricultural and livestock
technician training (paras. 2.09, 2.18) by renovating an existing 120-place
training center (Samanko), by constructing a new field training center (Kita)
in the heart of the OACV project zone (Map 1) for extension workers respon-
sible for food crop production, and by constructing a livestock training
center (Sotuba). In addition to construction, the project would finance
equipment, instructional materials, and six vehicles for field work.
3.05      The Samanko center's increased capacity would, together with the
upgrading of two other centers to be financed in parallel by USAID, enable
the MDR to meet the annual requirement of 200 junior technicians at this
level (para. 2.18). The livestock center would increase annual output to
the estimated 55 required to meet Mali's needs.
3.06      The Kita center, staffed by OACV personnel, would give practical
field training for third-year trainees from the agricultural training cen-
ters to be assigned to agricultural development projects, and would provide
in-service training for employed personnel in bookkeeping, stocktaking and
purchasing.
3.07      The new Sotuba center would be the only center for training junior
livestock technicians in the country (para. 2.18). In addition to providing
buildings and equipment, the project would finance the development of pro-
grams, together with the training of instructors. An important component of
the new programs would be the organization of practical on-the-job training
for students.



- il -
3.08      The project would finance three man-years of an agricultural train-
ing specialist to evaluate and design training programs for the agricultural
training centers; six man-years of specialists to establish training programs
for the Sotuba livestock technician training center; and six man-years of
specialists to establish programs for the Kita center.
3.09      To ensure that the centers financed under the project will meet the
demands for technicians required by the Operations and the MDR, the DNFAR
would collaborate closely with these clients. To this end, it would be a
condition of disbursement for the construction of the three centers that
an advisory committee, with terms of reference and membership acceptable to
IDA, be created to advise on admissions, programs and the placement of train-
ees.  The committee would be chaired by the Minister of Rural Development or
his representative. The Government would also ensure that the necessary
technical assistance for the junior agricultural technician training center is
provided by a competent agency. This would also be a condition of disburse-
ment for the construction of the Samanko center. An important condition for
the success of the centers is the availability of qualified Malian instructors;
to ensure this, the Government has agreed to accord MDR instructors the same
benefits and advantages already received by MEN staff of the same grade.
National Institute for Management (IPGP)
3.10     The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment for
the IPGP (paras. 2.08, 2.22) at Bamako, providing about 90 places for full-
time students and serving about 400-500 part-time students per year. The
project would also finance 10 man-years of specialists and consultants in
the fields of manpower planning, project management and budgeting techniques,
educational planning and administration, together with administrative posts
for a librarian and for a business manager (4 man-years). Not all teaching
needs can be met by full-time staff, and to give the Institute maximum
flexibility in the design and implementation of new courses for employed
personnel, US$100,000 for outside consultants to develop such courses would
also be financed. Ten fellowships for training lecturers overseas would be
provided under the project, to accelerate the Malianization of the teaching
staff.
3.11      In order to reserve a sufficient number of places in full-time
training courses for employed personnel (paras. 2.08, 2.17), the Government
will reserve about two-thirds of the places for managers or other staff,
sponsored by their employers, deemed to have management potential. The
remaining one-third of the places to be filled by qualified university
graduates selected by an entrance examination. The Government will conduct
a study of the training requirements of employers by September 1, 1978.
The study will be updated every two years, evaluating ongoing programs and
courses and making recommendations to the Institute's advisory committee
on programs.
Functional Literacy for Farmers
3.12      The project would build on the experience acquired in the Inte-
grated Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI) to improve the farmer



- 12 -
functional literacy programs and to extend them to new areas of the Project
(paras. 2.10, 2.19). It would finance the costs of inspectors and supervisors
(34 man-years) required to staff the three new regional inspectorates respon-
sible for administering the program and supervise the 1,600 village-financed
centers in the project area. The project would also finance the costs of
technicians (22 man-years) for creating a service to produce instructional
materials and radio programs, equipment and materials for the inspectorates,
together with the six vehicles required for supervision. Houses for senior
staff would also be provided. For the centers, the project would finance
instructor training, the initial purchase of radios, blackboards and other
equipment, together with the production of new instructional materials
and radio programs.  The MEN's functional literacy service, the DNAFLA,
would provide pedagogical supervision of the program and would train the
instructors required for the centers. It would also participate in the
evaluation of the program.
3.13      The OACV would be responsible for all field staff and for the
management of the program. Liaison between the DNAFLA and the OACV would
be maintained by the two senior coordinators seconded to the OACV by the
MEN and financed under the OACV project. The present conditions for village
participation in the program would be maintained (para. 2.10). The DNAFLA
and the OACV will conduct regular assessments, acceptable to IDA, of the
progress made by farmers participating in the functional literacy program.
Follow-up of the Preinvestment Study of Basic Education Programs
3.14      The project would build on the work of the preinvestment study
(paras. 1.04, 2.05) by financing the development and testing of programs
for both children and adults, specifically:
(a) more effective formal education programs for primary
school children concentrating on reading, writing and
arithmetic and using national languages;
(b) post-literacy and vocational courses (farm budgeting,
household accounts, crafts, child care and nutrition)
for rural men and women.
In particular, the project would aid the DNAFLA (MEN) by financing the work
of the national research team; a senior specialist and consultant services
(5 man-years) required for developing, testing and evaluating the programs;
three man-years of fellowships for staff training; and the costs of materials,
vehicles and internal travel.  The design and estimated costs of the programs
to be developed will be agreed by the Government and IDA. Considerations to
be taken into account would be that they would have widespread application
and be cost-effective.
Project Implementation Unit
3.15      The Project Unit created under the first project (para. 1.05)
would be expanded to enable it to assume all responsibility for design work



- 13 -
and site supervision (para. 4.02). The project would finance the salaries of
the existing staff, together with those of two building engineers, two drafts-
men, three site supervisors and a senior accountant, for a total of 10 man-
years of specialists and 18 man-years of support staff. The project would
also finance five vehicles for supervision of the widely dispersed building
sites, the equipment and materials required by the Unit, and its operating
costs. An advisory committee responsible for liaison, composed of represen-
tatives of the other agencies and services concerned with the project, will
be established not later than July 1, 1977.
C.   Project Costs
3.16      The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties amounting
to US$0.8 million, is estimated at US$12.0 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$7.1 million. The detailed breakdown of costs, given in
Annex 5, is summarized as follows:



- 14 -
Project Cost Summary
MF (million)             US$ (million)      % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total   Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
Lower secondary
schools               433.0    490.0    923.0   0.9    1.1    2.0         20.0
Agricultural
training center
(Samanko)            300.0    353.0    653.0   0.6    0.7    1.3          14.0
Extension worker
center (Kita)         156.0    182.0    338.0   0.3    0.4    0.7          8.0
Livestock assistant
training school
(Sotuba)              398.0    486.0    884.0   0.8    1.0    1.8         18.0
National Institute for
Management (Bamako)  302.0    400.0    702.0   0.6    0.8    1.4          14.0
Functional literacy
program               255.0    454.0    709.0   0.5    0.9    1.4         14.0
Basic education
study                  55.0    163.0    218.0   0.1    0.3    0.4          4.0
Project Unit           152.0    201.0    353.0   0.3    0.4    0.7          8.0
Base cost estimate  2,051.0  2,729.0  4,780.0   4.1    5.6    9.7         100.0
Physical contin-
gencies (6%)          107.0    216.0    323.0   0.2    0.4    0.6
Price escalation
(16%)                 296.0    550.0    846.0   0.6    1.1    1.7
Total project cost  2,454.0  3,495.0  5,949.0   4.9    7.1   12.0
Total project cost
net of taxes                           5,488.0                 11.2
3.17      Construction costs have been estimated on the basis of recent con-
tracts involving comparable construction standards. The agreed space stan-
dards are within the range of those for similar institutions financed by
the Bank Group. The estimated average unit cost per square meter of gross
constructed area is US$290. This relatively high cost for the region is
attributable to the high percentage of imported materials and Mali's distance



- 15 -
from the coast. The estimated average cost per man-year of technical assis-
tance is US$50,000, of which about US$40,000 would be for salaries, health
insurance and benefits; this estimate is based on UNDP and government ex-
perience. The distribution of costs by categories of expenditure is shown
below.
% of Total      Taxes
US$ Million    Base Cost   US$ Million
Civil works                               4.5            46.0          0.78
Furniture                                 0.2             2.0          0.02
Equipment and materials                   2.1            22.0           -
Personnel and fellowships                 2.9            30.0           -
Base cost estimate                   9.7           100.0          0.8
Physical contingencies                    0.6
Price escalation                          1.7
Total project cost                  12.0
Contingencies and Price Escalation
3.18      The project costs include an allowance for physical contingencies
that averages 6% of total base cost, and is made up as f ollows: 9% for civil
works (sites are well identified) and 10% for furniture equipment and materials.
The allowance for price increases is 16% of the total base cost plus physical
contingencies, and is estimated on the basis of the following trends in
the annual rate of increase in prices of both local and foreign goods:
(Annual percentage increase in prices)
1977    1978      1979      1980
Civil works                               9.0      9.0      8.0        -
Furniture                                 9.0      9.0       -         -
Equipment and materials                   7.5      7.5      7.5       7.0
Technical assistance
and fellowships                          6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0
Financial Plan
3.19      The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would finance 100% of
the estimated foreign exchange component of US$7.1 million and about 71%
of local costs, for an overall 89% of the project costs of US$11.2 million,
net of taxes and duties. The balance of the net costs of US$1.2 million
and US$0.8 million of taxes would be financed by the Government.  Funds
amounting to about US$1.4 million for the functional literacy program would
be allocated to the OACV project (Credit 491-MLI), which would administer
them.



- 16 -
Project Recurrent Costs
3.20      It is expected that education's share of annual government expendi-
tures will remain at about 35% of the national budget. On this basis, the
additional direct costs imposed by the project in 1980/81, the second year
of operation of the project institutions, would amount to about US$0.4 million,
or 1.5% of total recurrent costs for education and training.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation and Execution
4.01      All project sites have been identified and are state owned.  Sites
have been assigned to the ministries and services concerned with the proj-
ect. The Project Unit architect has prepared final drawings for the two
urban science/technology centers, which are ready for tender. Sketch draw-
ings for the other items have been reviewed by IDA.
Administration
4.02      The Project Unit (Chart 2), established under Credit 420-MLI and
an integral part of the MEN school construction and procurement service,
would be responsible for all design work, procurement and administration
of all contracts, with the exception of the functional literacy program,
which would be administered by the OACV (Credit 491-MLI). The Unit would
also supervise the civil works for the rural lower secondary schools in the
Sikasso region (para. 3.03). A site supervisor, responsible for allocating
building supplies, would be stationed in Sikasso and would carry out weekly
site visits to advise and supervise the local artisans.
Specialists and Fellowships
4.03      The project would finance 142 man-years of specialists, fellow-
ships and support staff, (Annex 6). The expatriates and senior Malian
specialists indicated in Annex 6, to be financed under the project, will
be qualified and experienced and their terms of reference and conditions
of employment vill be satisfactory to IDA. Candidates for overseas fellow-
ships (13 man-years) at the National Institute for Management and for basic
education (paras. 3.10 and 3.14), and their program and place of study, will
be satisfactory to IDA.
Evaluation
4.04      The Government will establish and implement procedures, accept-
able to IDA, to evaluate the impact of the institutions and programs to
be financed under the project. Specifically, it has agreed that:



- 17 -
(a) the IPN will evaluate the urban and rural lower
secondary school programs (para. 3.03);
(b) regular assessment of progress made by the farmers
attending the functional literacy centers will be
carried out by the OACV and DNAFLA (para. 3.13);
and
(c) with regard to the basic education programs, the DNFLA,
with the aid of the consultants to be financed under
the project, will evaluate the programs selected for
implementation (para. 3.14).
Procurement
4.05      Civil works and furniture contracts, estimated at US$4.5 million,
would be for samall and widely dispersed buildings at some 26 sites. Such
contracts would be awarded in accordance with local competitive procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Small, scattered buildings totalling US$0.4
million would be constructed by force account. Orders for equipment and
materials, estimated to cost approximately US$2.1 million, would be grouped
wherever possible in lots of not less than US$50,000, and contracts would
be awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Small equipment contracts, amounting to less than US$50,000, would
be awarded on the basis of quotations or through local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
4.06      Funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 75% of total expenditures for civil works -
US$3.4 million;
(b) 75% of total expenditures for furniture -
US$0.10 million;
(c) 100%,of total expenditures for equipment and
materials - US$2.1 million;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for personnel and
foreign expenditures for fellowships - US$2.9
million; and
(e) revolving fund (para. 4.07) - US$0.2 million.
US$1.3 million of the proposed credit, or 13%, would remain unallocated to
cover contingencies and price increases. Disbursements would be fully
documented and this documentation would be available for IDA's i1spection
during supervision missions. Estimated schedules of implementation and
disbursements are given in Annexes 7 and 8.



- 18 -
4.07      To avoid delays in the progress of work under this project due to
the Government's difficulties in prefinancing the expenditures to be reim-
bursed under the credit and in order to provide working capital, a revolv-
ing fund of US$200,000 will be opened in a local bank immediately after
the effectiveness of the credit. The Government will be allowed to use
this account for expenditures for the project eligible for financing under
the proposed credit. The revolving fund will be administered by the Proj-
ect Unit.
4.08      Accounting.  The Project Unit, together with the OACV, would
maintain detailed project accounts, in accordance with accepted accounting
principles. With regard to the accounts of the functional literacy com-
ponent which is managed by the OACV, separate books would be maintained.
An annual audit of all project expenditures, by a firm of independent audit-
ors acceptable to the Government and IDA, would be conducted and submitted
to the Government and IDA within three months of the end of each fiscal
year.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following issues:
(a) National Institute for Management (para. 3.11)
(i) Approximately two-thirds of the places in
full-time courses will be reserved for
employed or potential managers, selected
and sponsored by their employers;
(ii)  The Government, with the assistance of
specialists, will conduct by September 1,
1978, a study of the training requirements
of employers. The study will be brought up
to date every two years, will evaluate on-
going programs, and will contain recommen-
dations to the Institute's advisory commit-
tee.
(b)  An advisory committee responsible for liaison with
other agencies and services concerned with the
project will be established not later than July
1977 (para. 3.15).



- 19 -
(c)  The Government will carry out regular eval-
uation of the basic education, functional
literacy and lower secondary school programs
to be financed under the project (para. 4.04).
(d)  Candidates for senior posts to be financed under
the project will be qualified and experienced
(para. 4.03).
(e)  Candidates for fellowships at the National In-
stitute for Management and for basic education
will be acceptable to IDA, as will their programs
and place of study (para. 4.03).
(f)  Detailed project accounts will be maintained, in
accordance with accepted accounting principles.
The OACV will maintain separate accounts of ex-
penditures for the functional literacy program.
An annual audit of all project expenditures, by
a firm of independent auditors acceptable to
the Government and IDA, will be conducted and
submitted to the Government and IDA within
three months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 4.08).
5.02      Conditions of disbursement would be as follows:
(i)  For construction of the agricultural and livestock
training centers, the creation of an advisory com-
mittee, with terms of reference and membership
acceptable to IDA, to be chaired by the Minister
of Rural Development or his representative, to
advise the centers on admissions, programs and
the placement of trainees (para. 3.09);
(ii)  For construction of the junior agricultural tech-
nician training center (Samanko), assurance of
adequate technical assistance by a competent
agency (para. 3.09);
(iii)  For financing the development of basic education
programs, an agreement between the Government and
IDA on their design and estimated costs (para.
3.14).
5.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA
credit of US$10.0 million.






COMPARATIVE EDUJCATION INOICATORS                                                 ANNEX I
Usous" wU.eUuggU
CJUNE 15#i977
* GNP/ oX Z  NP   :X TOTAL#X  DP PUBLIC s                    t                    PMI,  IAV.PRI,   t              I        sSEC   s        s
3       SCAPITAI OEVOTEOOPUBLIC s EDUCAVION    sLITER.  O PRI,  SCONPLE.  387TU- taCM.,TEACNtPRDGREDS-î  SEC, a87(4'.                          t
tsATIs TO EOU.,   EXP. s RECURRENt    SACY                   tENROLLiTION        RDENT8I8ALARY INgION RATE tENROL.LiDENTSoI44H6ERs
IMARKETI (PUBLICtDEV4CTED,EXP ALLOCATEOs   RATE (RATIO &RATE FORÎPER   SRELATION mEROM PRI,,RATIO sPER   *ENROLi,
IPIP, IPRICES: EXP.    g  TO                TOI        (  0    NET ORl8C44,gTEAC4't TO CNP/ gTO SEC.   I NET   ITEACN.  RATIOS
YVOINLLSi.l 0(US8)  ONLV          ECU, :PRI. SEC. Mlg:A(DULOTPI)a N(K)   SCYCLECS)8ER    s CAPITA   s  (11               s (X)   zER    s Cx) 
(1C) 21   (2) s  (3)    s(4)   I            (5)       s (6)    I (7)   i  (8)    i (9        Q) I   II     (3Il      "(12)   8<13>  3(1(4)   t
A40VA NCE 
AUSIRIA          73    7.5E 4,410E        4.3     9,9      476   2541  Zut    99        98        93        Z6        2.0        99        si       19       8.0 0
CANADA           72  22,5f. 6,190E        7,7    19,4      30    38    19      98       89        98        214       2,0        99        82       17       9.00
GERMANY F.REP.72  62,44E 6,260E           4.2    14.2      ...  74** 26        99       91        99        33        Il.        99        91       22      17.0015
JAPAN            71 109.7E 4,470E         4.3    20.7      39    38    52      99       99D       991       25C       2.0        991       940      201    28.O0D
NETH4ERLANDS    72  13.SE 5, 250E         m,5    19,36    32    45    19       99       95        95        29        3.0        97        73       20      41.00
NEW IEALAND    73    3. DE 4,310E         5,2    et.       39    24    29      99       99        99        26        *,,        99        67       19      24.00
NURW4AY          72    4.OE 5,860E        7.0    15.2      58    23    13      99       99        98        au        1.9        99        76       14      11.00
SWEDEN           73   8.2E  7,240E        8.9    36.0      36   144   13       99       99        99        i7        ,.,        90        as       10      30.00
U.4<.            72  55,9E 3,590E        6.3    12.7       26    39    22      98       99        ..,       26        2.0          ,       63       17      11.00
U.S.A.           72 211.4E 6,670E         6.0    15.4      ...  73** 27        99       99        99        25(U      2.0         ,        93       19(4    29.0 0
;iREEC                 9'OE 2,0944)E      2.2    13.1      54V   29V   14V    82A       95V        .        32V       .          7044      58V      435    11.00
IRELAND          72    3,3E 2,320E       5,.3    13.90    43V   43V   145    98         97        9944      35        .          9544      75       19       7.0044
P444R14GAL       72    9.0E  1,630E       ,,,    .,..,     ...  ...   ...    ,,,        91(4       ,,       .,       ..           ,        65XY     .,       7.605
RUMANI A         75  21.3   1,3500        4.0     6,4      36    19    13      98       100        .        2         ,,9                  49       22     :10.00
SP'AIN           71  35,142 2,490E        2. '48  1.5.244    49V   22V   15V    94A     91A       ...       35A       ...,                 29A      30       6.0OA
(4407;0        75  15,7       778       7,5      ,       41G  32G  186    30          76        62E       42E       6,Q6       49E        17      25       4.00
AENIN            73    3.oE    320E       5,3    32.0      417   23    10      il       3208      708       54)8     25.08       438         78     398      0.4(410
B4ITSWANA        741   0,7      240       5.0    20.4)     38    20    15      2s       700       75        39        5.0        24        13(4     18       0.30V
Oi4RUNII         714   3.6       90       2.5    19.40    47R  43R   128    1o          20(4      30?       sa       10.0        14          20     18       3.0
CAMERiIUN        73    7,142    244E      5,4    20.0      38Y  29Y  17Y        .       74         Il       510V    f. .,                   9       23CY    0.90EV
C.A.R.           70    t.7E    2444E      4.ON  20.0       56    19.         .,         64CV      25        651V                 le 1       5CV    278Y    0.07Y
CHAO             75    4. DE    100E      3,o    10.0      78    22      -     1        29X8V    30         6S87    35.0           a        200V   30        0,018V
CtJNG4(ffl       741   3.3      470       6,0    19,3      40    32    21      50?    1330        63        63        6,0        448       33X      22       3.00
42042V)          714  36.4      2(0       5;, 3    ,.      29    36    24      40       7430      45        40       .,.         64        39X      28      13.00
421H40441(       73  27.2t    lou0e       3,1   eu.0       42    29    la       7       171       42        40        3.0        63         2       30       0,20
GABOJN           73   (4. 5   1,460E    -5.0    20.6       25      9    il     ,       18408V    25E        46C       5.0        1844      20E      21E      1.40EV
GHANA4<          71   4.6E    430E    '4.7   24.4D4   386   159  230    ..,              6(41     62        30EVy   1.            4        130      161V    0.748V
IV4)14Y CUAST    72    b,4E    460E       6.3    24.7      278V  338Y 13Y       Q44    52         5744      46                   Il .,     la       25       i.206y4
KENYA            73  12.9E    200E        6,ilN  27.0      63    il    il      40       73        .,,       40        8.0        14        12       23       1.038V
LESUTHI)         75    3,2      140E    12.05   23,0       49    la    20      40       85        50        52        7.QN       80        10       26       1.00
LIBERIA          75    il,5     110       2.4    13,2      27    tg    au      73       58        ...       35i       2.0        ...       12       26       1.3047
MADAGASCAR       7(4   8,6      3440      3.2    22,1    si   24    25         40       68X4      30        63       15.0        48          90     26       1.00
MALAW4I          74    4,9      130       3.5    20,9.,.....25                          560       60        'Su       7.0        40         40      20       0,26CY
MAI             75    5.7F      90F      4.2M4  33.0F    45F  37F   38F    10F         22XF      ,..       48F      9.5E        50E        60      21         ,
MAURITANIA41(    70    1.3E.    290E      4,5    21,0     ...         .. ,.    10      15(4      ...       22         .          .         3       24)       .
MAURIIIUS        72    0,9E    980E       3.7    11.700   71    I0o      4     80       86        99        31        .,          ,        31       30       1.47EV
MURUCCI)         714  16,3      3140      5,0C1  6.5       44    47      9     26?    534(        21        '37       ,.         31        130      21       2,00
NIGERIA          71  73. DE    327F2    3,2N   , .         40A  214A  20A    .,,        lxc  3(V  ,..       34EV      ..          ,          4      20EV    0.37EV
RW4ANDA          73    4,0E      80E      3.2C  2i9.00     ...     ..          2  . 3   52        ...       53        ..   ...              2       1 3      0.23CY
SENEGAL          7 1 4'49E    330E        4,0(N  2?, 5DR   38A4  42A    54    1 0       38(4      . ..      46        ...        ,,,       31       25       1,.7115
SIERIRA LEONE  73    2,9L    490E         3.11   23.4      30    36    30      151      340       45        32        4.0E       68        130      21       0,5387
SUMALIA          75    3, 2     1 00      3.70   10,80    496   160  199    s0?    134(4          86        35       10.0        60          3      15       0,00
SUDAN            72  15.2E.    230E       41,5   133,2     43    29    as      15       38        75        45        4.0O       25        1 l      2(4      1 .2.3
SWAZILAND        75    0.9      470       3, 8    ---      38    31    19      50       73        71        358       3.8        si        24       22       1 .00
TANZANIA         74   14.4E    160E       5, 1N   17,u     36    .,.   12      63       44X4       . ,      49        -.,         7          2      21C      0.30
TUNISIA          73    5.542    650E      6, 3    23. 4    37    43    18      55       72        si        41        6.0        31        14       21       3 0 0
UGANDA           70  1 1,242    2140E     5.2N   17.6CR  40Q  220  250    25A           480EV      ., -     36        I,.         14A        40EV   2 1      0.589V
UP4'ER VO~LEA    72    SIRE      90E      4,0    23, 9     65r    1 0    6      5       1 0       .,        45       18,0        20          2      23       008
ZAII4E           73  24,4IE    340E       5.2CN 21,31    54C  17C  29C    15            63        38        440       6. 0       43          8      2(4      0.968V
218M14)         714   4,A       12 0      5.3    34,2      34    38    36      43       Be        8         47        9.0        20        13       22       1,0 0
CENTRAL AMERIEA AND THC CARIOBEAN
iU7;- RICA       7      .9E    8440E      S.?   22.7       57    25    12      89       86EV      65        29        3, 0       se        22EV    25       12, 131C
DUMINICAN RE4',72   '4,6E    640OE        3.0    13.9      42    an    22      si       80        37        sa        3,00       63        13.5    2(4       7.0 0
EL SALVADOR    75    3,0E    430E         3,6    23.8      61      S    22     608      651       ,.-       3915      ,,,        39        1330     21EV    4,358Y
GUATEMALA        73   5,3E.   580E        1,9    16,0      55    23    1 4     47       64        26        Ili       3, 0       69          8      25       4.09Y
HAI ri           72    4.542    170E      0,9     6.60    6 1    I       8a    20       22        25?       45        5,0        5 0         3      2 3      1 .00 7
HONDURAS         75    2,9      350       4,36   14,40    62    1 5     22    618       76        30        35        3, 0       80         1 3      1 7     4,00u
JAM<AICA         72 2,104  1,3 90E        6,55   39,7      33V   22V    7V    86       106XY      ,,        5   2     ,,         ,,,I1     32XYV   19        4,79V
MEXICO           70  157.94 1 4,4490E     2.6     9. 3     54    24    t?2    7,6       71        3 1       46        3,0        63        1 9      23       6.32EV
NICARAGUA        741  2,44E    670E       2,5    14.2      63  1  3    13      57       65        a21       37        2,0        93         1 7     24       7,0 0
TRINIDAD0 a T, 76    1 .00 1,875E         3.qN   30.86    50E   25E   13E    901        a81       93        34        2, 09      49        44       25          ,
sour00 AMERICA
BOLIVIA     ~~76    5,8     315F E   5.0    17.5E........   38                      178       29D       24        SF         .,         48      180      ...
BRAfIL           75 107, 0   1 ,4 10 o    5,0    12. 4     42E  20E    37E  644A        860        ,        27EV      .,          ,        260      13CV    6.008
CHILE            72  14,4E    830E        4,6Y  10.6AY  36Y  14Y  36V              ,,  111x00V    ..        18         ,           ,        48X(Y4   ..
COLUMBIA         70  23, 1E    500E       f4.0    10,9     35    38    20      73       67        20        36        4,0        90         1 7      14      40
ECUADIOR         72   6,9E    480E        3, 7    27,71    4567 429(4 100y  69           2        ,.        3          ,          .         8       1        4,9787
GUVONA  74    0.8    500       5,84~~~~SIO    14.70   4 7 35    1 4  OSA     920       39         33        6,0        1 9       62X4    24        1,00
PARAGUAY         74    2.5      Il10      1,8    34.0      55    1 3    22    à83       82        26        lu        0,9        65         1 7     1 2      5.00
PERU             71  14,9E    7'40DE      4,5    24,30    50      22    1      72       se        38        390V      3,0         70        30      23DY  12,00
VENEZUELA   ~73  11,6E  1,960E       4,6    19,9       306  280   359    77A        ai        ,,        3         2,4        ,,        33        ,      126V



COMPARATtIVE EoUCATlON INSICATORS  (CONYD)                                 ANNEX 1  PAGE 2
t JUNt 15"977 à
s      I       I          I        I              I         3      I          I      t          3           I       I      I       I
t       I GNP I  S C FP  1S TOTALIE  Of PUBLIC I            1       1         gPl!. IAV,PRI.  t             1       1S(   1        t
t CAPliAI DEVOTEDtPU8LIC t ECUCATION    tLITER- t PRI, sCOMNLE.  OiTU-                                SEC, #STU- e         s
a   a  AT  a TO EDU.1  EXP. 1 RECURRENT   SACY    ,ENROI.IION            ONSALR   INIION RATE IENROLLaOENTStHIGHE1S
à      ttiNARKETI (PUILIC5DEVOTEDtEXP ALLOCAYEDI  RATE IRATIO IRAT111   RÏPEU  #R[ELATION lgPSON_g FRlRATIO tPER   SENROLLI
PO1P, IPRICES  EXP1,   5  TO   t        Tot      ts(  or  a NET  IPRJI,OCN,t£TACM  TO SfPf/ $TO SEC,      NET  ,TEÀCH. RATIOt
YP%s2LLs.t <USS)o  ONLYI  a  EDU, sF1R. SCC. Hl.tADULTS)s  (X)  iCYCLkEigIgR    1 CAPITA  ts  F2                s     I5ER    s (2)  t
I  5  I   3  I               t        S       5          *     S~~~~~~~~~8CA'IA   im  I       I9 3E  5x
t (11 55  (21 t  (31    t  (4)  t        (5)       t (61    a (71  t  (e)    . (91 s   solM    t (185       5(32)  3(13) 8<ac)   I
AS1A AND OCEANIA
AFIIHANISTAN   7l  16.3    ttO        ,,    "         39P  23P  16P   10        26X      24       41       5.s        78        SE    si       1.00
BANGLkDESm    73  76.2f   tOOE    t.2   20*2             ,,,     " l,.   23     s6x       .."     48        ".                 di5x   2a s      ..
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  15,7E   610E        3.2   14,0    as   41   22    S2          9SC      94       40      140         C4       6bat    26    20,o0C
INDIA          7 1 59.6E   140E    2.6VY .,           ",  ,,. ",   29           79s      ,..      431A       ..       ... *    2tX     20AY   4,00AY
LNDUNESIA      74 136F       220C     3.9F  tt,OF   649   21   l0    60t    J9X          43       30       2.0C      52        19X    14       2.00
IRAN           73 133.11 1 ,250E    3.3   12.6 b       5   l8es  128   50       77       74A      82       5,0      BOA       24      32      4.32CY
IRAe           72  tO,81 l,l10of    6.7   16.3DR ..  ...  ..    26    6bCY               ...      22       le.        .".      2tXCY  26       8.2SCY
JURDAN         73   2.6E   430E       7.0    fi     52   15   21    59          91X      76       38       5.0        E4       50X    22       4,00
KOREA          75  35.3    530        2,9   16,OR   65   33    2    92D    104X          98       iJ2      3,5        77       SSX    38       7.8
LEBANON        72   3.1E l,oJoE    3,5   ti. 0    39   40   10    68            86       65       19       d.0       6t        26u     25    2s.00
MALAYSIA       74  11.7    680        6.4   2t,o    44   31   Il    60C         96F      90       32       4,00       a3i      44U    27F      300or
OMAN           72   U.7E 1,660E       1,7N   3,8    96b          *      20      24X      99       33       ?.O        ..       0,4X    9       .,
PAK3SIAN       75  b9.0    130t       1.6   16,2    45   25   l8    21          47X      50       19       2, 0       ..       151x    la      6.0b
PAPIJA N.G,    75   2.6    410        5,6   16,1    38   16   24    32          97?      73P      3l      itou        90       t2X?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINEs   74  41.4E    330E    2.5   14,9    73   tg   12    87    104X               ,,      34      15.0        ",       46X      "    21.00
SINGAPORE      72   2.2E 2,240E       3,t   16,2    44   Sl   Io    756    96Y           72      33       "..        99A      57Y    24       e,25Y
SYRIA          75   7.4    660        3.6   6,9       39   25   26    53        89       70       t5       2.0        92       45      21     12.0o
THAILAND       73  40,7E    3t0E      4.QNF 20.7F   65    9   15    82          87X      93e      32       3.0 U    9tc        21X    24       2.00
TURKEY         72  37.90   60bO       ...   13.ODR ."+        . ,,,    .,   IosXcV  .*.           340Y    .,.         ...      22xr   27DY   5.31B5
YEMeN          73   6.4E    180E    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   1o            itX      18       36       s,0        75        ZX    19       0.0s8y
YEMEN P.D,R.  72   1.61    220E    2.3A  12,6    79   12    *    1a             7ox      31       2Y9      o,l       99        12X    20       0.08AY
SUMMARS fOR DEVE.IIPINC CO3UNTRIESt
NUMBER OF COUNrRIE3I                  75    73       70   69   69    71        89       55       78          53     55        79      7S      7l
:ANGE:                             <0.5-  13.8.  s25- tow  (.   (g5'    (10-           l7-*   tl9.       (1.6-   (17 (t4.   C9,              .02.1
12.0P )  32.31  96 ) s)  40)   981    184X)   99 )    69 )              25.0)   995        75.0)  43)    23.0)
QUARTILES5UPPER t                   5.2   22,1    55   31   22    75          e7       75       46         a       BO        29      26      6.0
MEDIANI                 4.0   18.0    45   23   IS    50           71       50       38         S       63        16     23       2.00
LUWER t                 3.0   13,9    38   16   12    21          52        30       33         3       25         9     20        *9
SYH8OLSî... DATUFt JNAVAILABLE               688970 OR SECFORE          FthCURRENT PRICE8                       SOUltCISI
MAGNIUOE NIL OR NEGLIGIsLE  01.971                        NUSFP                                   ......
t  0ULSTIONABL.E                   C1597Z                     PiINCLUDINB PORIQSN AID                  COLUMNS#l AND 2 W0110 BANO ATLAS
*  INILUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS o 1973                         *CENTRAL  O,YONID                                         OR OBRD BISStONS
**  CtlHt11NED 217H PRIHAIY         111974                     RUMXNIsTRV oF EDUCATION (NOEl ONCV                3 TO 14 IORD MISSIONS
Fu197s                     3.MOE AND $TATE 602r, 0NLY                                 AND/OR UNESCO
651976                     TOEXCLUDIN& CENTRAL 50V7,                                  STA7ISTIcAL
UPUSLIC   1 O5LY                                           YEARoo(
VOINCLUDINS FR1VAMI EttPENDITURE
5AINCI,UDING OVERtAGED STUDENTS
Y*UNE8CO SouRCg8
--------------  -------------    ..............__.__._.___..................._____.__.___....................................  ,. . ..______..___________
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN T£EVALUATION OF VARIUOU  EDUCATrON SVStEsA AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STASES 0F EDUCATIONAL
DEVE8LOPMENT 4(ETW1EN V611005 COUNTRIEO. NOWEVER,0N THF, 86818 OPITNt FRIEeNT DATA,CROSS.NATIONAL CONFARISON SHOULO SE APPROACHED WITH
rREAr CAUTION, DATA FRESENTEO IN TH11 6801E TAISIE HAVE BEEN COL.8.ECTED LARGELSL a'11   AAMSIOSFO   OENEN    OREJ7
AC ÛRACY OFTE  DTAF   EVTRTEORA F               UN O       FR DAVA8en M601  FO STANOAROZE OEFINITZONS AN  WITHIN LIMITT, TO CHEE8K THE
PCCRACRSVELF 11DAANEETESSUCDTAARE 51011 IHFERFECT IN SEVERAL. RESPECTS ANOb THi OANA 15 WORIIKNO TO IMFRO)VE THEM
MRONRs  IETUN THE OCCASION 0F ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THIE USEr OF THESE 0ATA, TMg POLL.ONINq SUALIFJCATION&S SOLO SE SONNE JO
(I)OEDUCATILJN. AS DEFINEO IN THE1 TABLE INCLUDES AL. EBUCATION 4N9 TRAININS, FORMAL AND NON.FORNUAIfouI 
(2)OPRINARY EDUCATInN REFERS TO EDUCATION At TE   118                 AN                                                      AT THE  ECONDAR
LEVEL  REGAROLE8S 0F TYPE <E*G. GENERAL,TENCA,SIUTJRL
(3L1TERA(T RATE$P'CCo.6) ARE OFTEN 0876A2N10 FR02M COUNTIS CENSUBeS, IN NANYCOIJNTRIE3 72115 ARE ONLY APFROXINATIONS AND IT 15
DOUBTFUL THA6  ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION or 'LITE RATE# MAS SrEN  OL1O0CD CON3 JTENTLVI
COPUBLIC EXPES DITURE  N1 EPUCATIONO(COLO.3,O AND 5) RCER TG ALLL CAPITAL AN RECURR NT EX NENDITURES DEVOTEEN TO EDUCATION OY
PULC  N   UASI-PUOLIC AGENCIES,
(S) ENRULLMENT RATIOS-(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TC 8CHfOOL SEAN AND MEAN THE FERCENTAGE 0F ELISIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL.TIME
IN TRI APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND FARIVATE SV LEVEL.9 72EV ARE OFTEN SUDJECI TO A RIDE 26161N 0F ENNUR IN T2E DEVELOPINS
COUNTRIES [32126 TC VARIATION IN 1WE ACCURACY 0Fir 11  DATA(I,E. AGEr.PEFCPOUAIN60NRLMTS. NOLENFIRS
FREGUENTLY ARE IlIGNER TNAN THE1 NUMBER 0F STUDENT  ACUALLYIN 1    CNOOI  OVERABEDOSTUDENTS W2051 INCLUSION  la INDICATED   $y
FO(TNsTE  ALOCAN INFLATE THE1 RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
MALI: POPULATION 1970-2000
(7oos)
1970        1975        1980         1985        1990        1995        2000
Tot. Pop.        5,047        5,697       6,470        7,374       8,454       9,746     11,257
Tot. Males       2,516        2,834       3,214        3,660       4,194       4,835      5,586
Tot. Females     2,531        2,863       3,256        3,714       4,260       4,911      5,671
Tot. 20-49       1,838        1,947       2,299        2,580       2,916       3,355      3,881
M         916         918        1,145       1,286        1,454      1,668       1,925
F         922       1,029        1,154       1,294        1,462      1,687       1,956
Tot.  5-24       2,257        2,496       2,892        3,327       3,858       4,491      5,217
M       1,135       1,271        1,449       1,663        1,924      2,237       2,602
F       1,122       1,225        1,443       1,664        1,934      2,254       2,615
Tot. 14-18         533          592         665          761         905       1,045      1,216
M         269         298          335          382         450         521        606
F         264         294          330         379          455         524        610
Tot.  6-13       1,029        1,156       1,345        1,574       1,813       2,098      2,440
M         518          583         674         783          903      1,047       1,219
F         511         573          671         791          910      1,051       1,221
Source:  IBRD Population and Human Resources Division, Development Economics
Department, 1976.



ALIEX 3
MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ACTUAL 1973/74 RECURRENT EXPENDITURES AND PROJECTED 1977/78 EXPENDITURES
DEPENSES EFFECTIVES DE FONCTIONNEMENT 1973/74 ET BUDGET DE FONCTIONNEMENT 1977/78
(Thousands MF/Milliers de FN)
BASIC EDUCATION/ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL                          ACTUAL/EFFECTIVES             PROJECTED/PREVUES
Primary Education/Premier Cycle                                 1973       %
Personnel 1/                                                 2,879,082    73.0             3,713,740      72.0
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                 359,338      9.0              444,714       8.6
School Canteens/Cantines                                       555,100    14.0               797,100      15.4
Community/flDpenses communautaires                             145,962      4.0              189.006       4.0
Sub-total/Total partiel                                      3,939,482   100.0             5,144,560    100.0
Lower Secondary Education/Second cycle
Personnel 2/                                                 1,361,242    81.0             1,805,400      77.0
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                 302,642    18.0               496,799      21.0
Community/Dépenses communautaires                               25,758      1.0               33,354       2.0
1,689,642   100.0            2,335,553    100.0
UPPER SECONDARY EDUCATION/ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE
Teachers/Professeurs (Malien/Maliens - 171) 3/                 188,100    26.0               541,200      49.5
(Foreign/Expatries)                       15,000      2.0                5,000       0.4
Other Personnel/Autre personnel                                177,600    25.0               157,200      14.4
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                   26,117     4.0               41,400       3.8
Scholarships/Bourses                                           314.835    43.0               348.800      31.9
721,652   100.0            1,093,600    100.0
IPN & TEACHER TRAINING/IPN ET FORMATION PROFESSEURS
Personnel                                                      220,000    58.2               313,060      54.4
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                   25,200     6.7                40,600      7.1
Social 4/                                                      1322700    35.1               221,500      38.5
377,900   100.0               575,160    100.0
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION /FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
Personnel                                                      111,800    52.2               230,100      48.0
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                    9,635     4.5               32,010       7.0
Social                                                          92,839    43.3               217.958      45.0
214,274   1000,              480,068    100.0
HIGHER EDUCATION/ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
Personnel                                                      226,027    15.0               503,765      25.5
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                   39,954     2.6                76,543      3.9
Social                                                         508,100    34.0               794,855      40.2
Scholarships Abroad/Bourses à l'étranger                       730Q000    48.4               600,000      30.4
1,504,081   100.0            1,975,163    100.0
FUNCTIONAL LITERACY/ALPHABETISATION FONCTIONNELLE
Personnel                                                       50,000    90.7                92,670      77.7
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                    5.124     9.3                26.625     22.3
55,124   100.0              119,295    100.0
YOUTH AND SPORTS/JEUNESSE ET SPORTS                                165,720*                     220,500
MIN] STRY SERVICES/SERVICES MINISTERIAUX
Personnel                                                       58,000    80.0                80,000      77.7
Materials/Matériel pédagogique                                   14.500    20.0                23_000     22 3
72,500*  100.0              103,000    100.0
TOTAL:                                                          8,740,375                    12.046,899
*Estimated/Estimé
1/ Average cost per teacher increasing from 531,000 to 580,000 in 1978/coût moyen par enseignant augmentant de
531,000 i 580,000 an 1978.
2/ Average cost per teacher increasing from 823,000 to 900,000 in 1978/cout moyen par enseignant augmentant de
823,000 à 900,000 en 1978.
3/ Average cost per teacher increases from 1,100,000 to 1,230,000 in 1978/cout moyen par enseignant augmentant de
1,100,000 a 1,230,000 en 1978.
4/ "Social" indicated mainly scholarship/indique surtout bourses.



MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY AND LOWER SECONDARY PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS
PROJECTION EFFECTIFS DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL
1974 - 1984
Nouveaux                                            Premier Cycle
Inscrits                                             First Cycle                                                          Nouveaux
New       NE as                                                                                                         Inscrits            Second Cycle
Enrollments  % pop                                                                                          ah of 6-13        New
(NE)      age 6-f       1           2           3           4           5           6           Total   age group/   Enrollments    7           8        9        Total
groupe age
1974    44,400                  57,750      50,350      46,250     36,400      28,350      24,000        243,100                     10,500   12,850  10,100  11,000   33,950
1975    45,800      28.0        57,300      50,850      46,400     38,700      32,350      26,600        252,200      22.0            11,500   13,800  11,200  11,800   36,800
1976    47,000                  57,450      50,860      47,000      40,400     35,100      30,300        261,110                      13,050   15,250  12,150  12,900   40,300
1977    48,580                  57,700      51,200      47,200      41,700     37,450      33,500        268,250                      15,150   17,300  13,600  14,000   44,900
1978    50,500                  57,908      50,700      48,150      43,150     39,450      36,500        275,850                      17,400   19,500  15,500  15,500   50,500
1979    54,000                  59,800      51,400      47,900      45,250     40,600      38,850        283,800
1980    57,800      35.0        63,800      53,000      48,500      45,250      42,500     40,300         293,350      21.8
1981    61,850                  68,200      56,300      49,900      45,700      42,700      42,100        304,900
1982    66,200                  73,000      60,200      52,900      47,000      43,150      42,600        318,850
1983    70,800                  78,100      64,400      56,500      49,600      44,250      43,000        335,850
1984    75,800      39.0        83,600      68,900      60,400      53,000      46,600      44,000        356,800      22.6
Sources (1) A. Lemay, UNESCO, 1974
(2) IBRD Population Data 1976



MALI - Proposed Second Education Project
MALI - Deuxième Projet Education Proposé
Summary of Estimated Project Costs as of April, 1977
Tableau Sommaire des Coûts Estimés du Projet à partir d'avril 1977
('000s/US$ milliers de FM)
Site
Development/                     Equipment/Materials  Furniture/ Specialists/
VRD    Construction  Total Equipement/Materiaux  Mobilier  Specialistes   MF'000s  US$ million
A.  Lower Secondary Schools/
Ecoles second cycle de
l'enseignement fondamental                63.500      571.000    634.500     96.500             20.400      171.500      923.000      1.9
B.  Junior Agricultural Training Center/
Centre d'apprentissage agricole (Samanko) 45.000    407.000    452.000        83.600            14.500      102.900      653.000      1.3
C-  Livestock Technician Training Center
(?otuba)]Ecole d'infirnjers v6térinaires 48.000    430.000    478.000    208.000                27.000      171.500      884.500      1.8
D-  Specialized Agricultural Training Center
(Kita)/CS        .                         29.000     257.000    286.000     28.600              9.200       14.700      338.000      0.7
E. Functional Literacy Program
Alphabétisation fonctionnelle                --       190.000    190.000    432.000                --        86.730       709.000      1.4
F- National Institute for Management/
MIFrP                                      19.000    170.000    189.000       16.000             10.700     486.374       702.000     1.4
G.  Basic Education Study/Etude de
l'éducation de base                          --         --         --        135.000               --        83.300       218.000     0.4
H.  Project Implementation Unit/
Bureau du projet            --                          --         --        100.000              3.200     249.900       353.000    .0.7
S/TOTAL MF 'O00s                    204.500  2.025.000  2.230.000  1.100.000              85.000   1.366.904    4.780.000       9.7
S/TOTAL US$ '000s                   417.0    4,130.000  4.547.0    2.200.000              170.0     2,790.0            --         --
Physical contingencies/MF 'O0Os        22.500    182.000    204.500    110.000                8.500       --          323.000      0.6
Imprévus quantites/US$ '000           46.0       370.0      416.0       220.0               17.0         --      --                --
Price Escalation/MF '000s              30.000    313.000    343.000    201.000                9.800      292.000      846.000      1.7
Augmentation prix US$ 'OOs            60.0       640.0       700.0      411.0               20.0        600.0            --        --
GRAND TOTAL   MF'OOOs                 257.000  2,520.000  2.777.500  1.411.000              103.300   1.660.000    5,.950.l80       --
US$ millions             0.524       5.0         5.5         2.9               0.2          3.4            __       12.0



ANNEX 6
MALI: Second Education Project
Specialists and Fellowships
Total or Equivalent
Specialization      No. Specialists  Years    in man-years
1. Lower Secondary Schools    Technology*                1            2             2
Science*                1             2             2
Family Education*           1            2             2
Agricultural
Education*                 1            2             2
Evaluation*                 1            3             3
S/TOTAL           11.0
2. Agricultural and
Livestock Technician
Training Centers      Rural Economy*              1            2              2
Feeding/Pasturage*          1            2             2
Communication techniques* 1              2             2
Extension techniques*       3            2             6
Evaluation*                 1            2             2
Consultants*                _            _             1       15.0
3. Functional Literacy       Coordinators                2            2             4
Regional Directors          3            2             6
Supervisors                12            2            24
Editors                     5            2            10
Radio Programmers           2            4             8
Printing Technicians        1            2             2
Radio Technicians           1            2             2
56.0
4.  National Management
Institute             Manpower Planning*          1            3             3
Project Planning and
Implementation*            1            3             3
School Administration*    1              3             3
Librarian                   1            2             2
Business Manager            1            2             2
Fellowships*               10            1            10
Consultants*                      -                    1
24.o
5. Basic Education Study   Coordinator*                  1            2             2
Consultants*                -            -             1
Fellowships*                -            3             3
Economist*                  -            2             2
8.0
6. Pro.ject Unit             Architect*                  1            3             3
Implementation         Building Engineer *         2            2              4
Procurement Specialist*   1              3             3
Draftsmen                   2            2             4
Site Supervisors            3            2             6
Accountants*                2            3             6
Quantity surveyor           1            2             2
28.0
Total specialists/consultants                     129 man-years
Total fellowships                                  13 man-years
*Agreement of the Association on qualifications and experience  is required.



AN511X 7
MALt S1ECoID EDUCA5ION PROJECT/DEUIXImEM PROJET EDUCATION
IMPL08ENTATION SCHEEULEICALOE8,RI0  DE EEALISATION
1977                   1978                   1979                   1989 -                981I                   1982
Inleeda  Te.r/Anee C.Iedrier       2    3                                    1  2     3    4     1    2     3     41   2           3     4    T     2 I         4
Centrs deSciene etTeCheîoOl G<s  et Kayen)                      CeX& .~iiI-                                                                                    fEt-   Ti-n pe-iod. inelede 9.8k  Pp.ppr 1
(Li) *qntpe....t/.obilier                                                                      33  444 k59   5                                                                                                                  C .. trrtiee
(01  Ctnîe  AT (4)                                                                  BB  CE   888BB   888  B8E                                                                                                                        E   nkcciO.rt.n/Eqh..
Cn...t-ictine
1119 5qlipeeECtICCbî1îEr                                                              i  223,~~~~~~~~~~~~111   334  445  55                                                                         s,dentScBln
(ILI9  "trnnee  AT                                                                              OA    AAA  888~ 88    0    M 88    88888 EB
BBB  BBa   BBB   BBE EBB   BBB   BBB   BBB                                                         f-~~~~~i qicpeet Scyit-c  liEt./
C. Teacher TIrsi-j  COllege/I.P.L.G. (touîcnsiî                                                                                                                                                                                                Lt.blinel.t li.tee  691p-.t et -abili-r
9i    -ntrcionOEne    0    +4-i. ...                                                                 --         .-----2 Tdl~  ,P.i
P,dp-rtin appels d'offres
(ii) eqeipseent                                                                                            12 3335 553   T..der/Appne1 dloffres
112  233  345  555                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Contr-t aende&/M.sh.c6
9 DeIi-rey/Liorei...
(119 4tnîpesCeneinci~~~~~~~~~~~~îîier                                          il~~1  223  334~ 55                                                                                                            A   Entian/erneta
(19peCEenECl AT                                                                                              7.4  AAA  49B  EBC  888  Enc  88E  88E  888  888  88  B8E  EES  E88  88                                                       SperatiEz enst.Icflts  nednnex
-1cl trein-                                                               07E  OiE  no            00I-- 
;iî  4L.pnOEn/nbili.e                                                                                           111  222  445  555
(19peronene  AT                                                                                            f                 AA  OAA  88BEB88   888  888  B00  888  885              BBB88
IV. Aruln.TeniieTileCeirCA4 (S-c U)en 
(i9  C~~~~~ese1rnCi1en ~~~~~~~~000  n---nn---& III
(119 ~~~~qcipeeenî/mnitiEior ~~~~~~~111  223  334  455  5l
(Liti             DNeetlBFAR                                                           OA    AAA   85   8858   885  88   88   8   85
V. Srec11ieiid ArCioa   riinCnel..(1.
(in> ~~~qc1peeeciIecki1itr ~~~~~111  223  334  459  Il
(lit) Perecetei                                                                                                                      SES  888  EBB  B88  BB8  888  888 88 
VI. Fun-ti-1n LEt.rscy/Alph.b~tieef0 t          neîore
(il)                                                                                           fflî~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
(lii) pEeCeiBEi  88   EBE  888  888  888  888  88    8809   E   55
VII. BEe,, Bd ... ien Stndy/Itnd. de l'Edn-tîicn de B-e[                                                             .                                                                      
(i) cq.ip.-enn/_oii_e                                                                  Ili  223  33                                                            r                      f        
<lit) peBeel                                                                                    8   888  888 iREBE  888  BBB  888  80E  88E  888  888  E88  888
VIII.                                          d                                                                                                                                      f
(19                                                                                    Ilipeet  1   223  334  55                                                                                             r
(IL>  stOr~i... d.c    ioîin233  445~ 
(I)p.rînnel AT                                                                      r 8          BE 888880    8    8   18E  888  888I "B  BOB



ANNEX 8
MALI:  Second Education Project
Cumulative Disbursements in Millions us$
IBRD
Fiscal
Year                                                     % Disbursed
1               0.25                            2.5
2               0.62                            6.o
1978         3                1.03                          10.0
4               1.57                           16.0
1               2.18                           22.0
2               3.12                           31.0
1979         3                5.01                          50.0
4               6.44                           64.4
1               6.8o                           68.o
2               7.4o                           74.o
1980         3                9.00                          90.0
h               9.30                           93.0
1               9.4o                           94.0
2               9.50                           95.0
1981          3               9.60                          96.0
4               9.70                          97.0
1               9.90                          99.0
2              10.0                          100.0
3
Source:
Date:   January 1977



MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM (FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL)
FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
_  FARMER
TRAINING
NON-FORMAL         RURAL YOUTH CENTERS
SECTOR                    i                                           G    VARIOUS COMMUNITY TRAINING PROGRAMS
INA
12
ENSEC/ENETF                                              CFP   VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER
I  2  3  4                                                CAA   AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN TRAINING CENTERS
INA    ART INSTITUTE
FORMAL                                      i   2 YEAR COURSE                                         ENSEC LOWER SECONDARY TEACHER COLLEGE
SEC TOR Rr 
IPEGS                                                ENETF DOMESTIC SCIENCE COLLEGE
1  1 EAR COURSE    UNIVERSITY( LEVEL
IPEG   PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE (1 AND 2 YEAR COURSESI
LOWER                                        ENA
PRIMARY           SECONDARY                                                                    ECICA CENTRAL SCHOOL FOR INDUSTRY, COMMERCE
---------------.-- -----------  LYCÉE                                                     AND  ADMINISTRATION
l2   3  4  5     6I  7                                                                            ENPT  POSTS/TELECOMMUNICATIONS SCHOOL
Il ------------------------------  TECHNICAL LYCÉE  ENIESS   NURSING SCHOOL (MIDWIVES AND NURSES PROGRAMS)
_  2  3  4        DOCTORAL          IPGP  NATIONAL MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (ENTRY FROM UNIVERSITY AND
PROGRAMS          ENA   NATIONAL SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION       FROM EMPLOYMENTI
E-ICA | | 2 | 3 | 4 |    <!L   iENI   NATIONAL SCHOOL OF ENGINEERS
-3 2 | J | 4 | 5 |           ENS   HIGHER TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
IPR                  IPR                               ENM   NATIONAL MEDICAL SCHOOL
ENPT                               VETERINARIAN
_£CP E                                    TRAINING            |          PROGRAMS FINANCED BY FIRST PROJECT (CREDIT 420-MLII
ESS
PROGRAMS IN SECOND PROJECT
CFP                                                               N. SOME ARE IN FIRST AND SECOND
-L   |L2-LE                                                               PROGRAM IN FIRST AND SECOND
jfCAA
2   VARIOUS SECTOR SPECIFIC VOCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AGE 6/8                  12/13           15/16                     18/20
Wo Id B.nk 16913



MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
..........Minister of Education
Director of Planning
and School Equipment
Liaison with other
Ministries or Technical Divisions
Advisory        1Directo Project                                                                Advisor in
|Comrmittee                   1- Unit                                         ......       .......... .  pr
|  Secretariat                           1                               Asitn
Implementation Unit        .Personnel, Accounting&
Logistical Services
Cons ruction                                              Programs
Division                                                Division
X                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Personnel:                               ~~~~~~~~~~Personnel:
Building Engineer (1)                                   Educator                                                     Personnel:
Architect (1)                                           Technology Specialist                                          Chief Accountant
Civil Engineer (1)                                      Science Specialist                                             Accountant
Draftsmen (2)                                           Home economics specialist                                      Bookkeeper
Site Supervisors (3)                                    Secretary                                                      Secretary
Quantity_Surveyor                                      Tasks:                                                         Tasks:
Secretary                                             Curriculum Development                                           Financial Reports
Tasks:                                                  Criuu    eeomn
Design work                                        Preparation of Equipment lists                                   Control of Unit Costs
Tendering                                              Teacher upgrading                                                Maintenance
Programming                                                                                                            Transportation
Supervision of Construction
Maintenance
11 The Advisory Committee would consist of representatives of the relevant technical divisions reponsible for decisions
and policy content concerning all aspects of the project. For example: OACV for the functional literacy component;
DNFAR for policies and curricula of rural training centers; the Directorate of Higher Education for the IPGP. Other
concerned services are the Directorates of Rural Works and Public Works.
World Bank-16915



MALI: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the
Ministry of Rural Development
Minister
Cabinet
R u r a l  A g ri c u l t u r e  A n i r n a l  R u r a l   D e v e l o p m  N a t i o n a l   D i r e c t o r a t e   O M B E V I   W a t eI
WRural      |           rc  3ur               Husbandry           Institute               Extension and Farmr                                       c  es            Cooperatives
Works                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training                        adFrestry
Development Projects                                                 Division o
Agricultural      _Division of
(OACV, Riz Mopti,                                                    Education and                  Farmer Training
Mali Sud, etc.)                                                     Training
Agricultural|
Traini                     I                 I
|    C;R  l           l    ~~~~~~~E.S.
|    CAA    t |  |  CAA    t       CAA*                                 Specialized Centers:V
Sarnmé           Mpessoba           Samanko  E|V|                       Baguineda, Sotuba,
Dioo, Taba Kora,
Kita
Divisions of the Rural Development Institute
Agronomic Research |   [                3         |Planning and Territorial   Technical Studies
ch           Development                       I
Key:
CAA - Junior Agricultural Technician Trng.
EIV - Livestock Technician Trng.                                                         16 -Evaluation Unit
CAR -Farmer Training Center
E.S. - Rural Youth Training Center                  proposed project institutions
t USAID-financed institutions
1/ Centers located in development project areas providing practical field training to 3rd-year students of the CAAs
and upgrading for extension workers.
Worid Bank-16914



i
M             A  U  R  I T  A  N  IA                                                                                  i
X ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~~~~ - - -         - -     - J' i,  -- - ---- - - - -
-I~~~~~Ni
0 t   \i   Oyelîmore   oNioro                                 oN-                                                                                    MALI
SECOND EDUCATION
A  ~ ~ ~ <~~c~~~rt7\ ~~AND
_ «4                E                            <t-> ;J `'   r i FgT\O- 1\  1it   < '~             MOURDIAH/                         'S;                                TRAIN ING    PROJECT
* SADIOLA (       BAFOULABE                \n     ,                                                                                                            SITES   AND   AREAS
MAHINA                                                       DIDIENI                                                  SAY
t  BATIMAKANA                                        ARK                                                         Science/Technology Centers
(D*KUNDIA                                         -OLOtANI 
yKASSAN -^                                           FALADIE                                             _                                             National Management Institute
<   )  \  ~~~~~~~ \            ~ KTA S, ShKR                  ~      /SROKOROL                              j ,-ve          S*    *TOMbINIAt$f               giutrlTcncoTanngetrSmno
OKO<5/ ITL                       < SRC                                                 A                              Agrctural Technician Training Center (Sonaia)
7 >KENIEBA \`_z~~ 5 *KOKOFATA  t             I BAMAKO\',----<  î  \                                 )st                                     UcniagratLnt CemerS  Sotba)
_   ,r-_  oJ   FARABr                                                                                                    2.                      Teacher Training  Center (Louloumi)
r  c   ~~~~~~.                                                                                                                             Nec Esinctiaral Literocy Regional Inspectorates~~~~~~~~~~~~~N. FnciooiLie,cyRegolI .secorte
12'                 G           <>         j 7 /           _  _      7         <           g                      C           X         X       a °    ,            v   °     OAC V Z 0N  Funcrional Literacy Progam Zone (1600
&                                     jKnngalse ~~~~~~~LOACV ZONEVilgCetrs
12-                                                                                                            SIKASSO ZONE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 Rural Lamer Secondary Schools
'I                                 ® I   Nx   J   /   0  4   <  0Sector AdmstIravtie Center (9)
r              "N   A ER           M8YA                                                 Bovnun.D                                         >PAGEI                              *  Sub-Sector Adm, nîstrative Center (24)
MAURITANIA       REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                            Secto> IAdi   k  j  * Sector Aindstrative  Center aisc
MALI               N I G E R                                                                                                                                - - - - Sector BouTdac ,es
3 G~~~~~~UPPER4                                                               V                                                                                                       m ~/^v;ttg~    . ne,nor,ono1 Boundor,es
-E)  f IVORY       iN<                                                                                                                .                                          Rivets
ARE*:~h r                                             rndvrsrrvi <i iOIN -10p  mis                            Pdobof   I O                                                               50      100               200
impiy  i   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                       KIL~~~~~~~~~~OMAETERS
C C  0;   WvrROOpldevnkndbrics rhtiwnaonfiivt    mrp dbv rr r 5                   I V  O    R  Y         C  O  A    S T                                                         KIL
v O c ~~~~~~~~~~~~wIan. lo                                                                                                                                                                                   0ol kZd1^ lfrle  g7/4\r
_                                                                                                     6I  I                           L,      ,,91






-Qp .rt  r4e . ,  .*~~~           ,            . NL.;-       
'~~Qo  'aVà4                           '                 '    y  C      A   -L  -  f   R -   I-: :1:     A
I                          Né
:-~A  R`5 r$g                                                     N!> '-,
,  4 ,  _              § ,,    
Nicro~~~~~~~~
.. .         . . ., , $ ,j - ., j 0. Xa;  }                    1a ..              s-
;  < a  >    , g  - .           ~~~~~~~~Tombouctu  o; {   
, M A-0 VR -j1T ,A  n: 1'A1           Gûundom    NGa f0 
Kaye                                                                           t
f  "i' /  °oro                                                                 -71_____g;b
t         ,                       J                  <               --<  E        S\s-1~~~~~~~~~~~~P E 
TA\
SE anaD E           wD >UCAEN PROJECT
STItUATION DES OPERATIONS DE   1EPPEMENt RURAl2'
MAJOR RURAL DEVELOPMENTOPERATIONS
'}                                          N 1N_ , _
( 1 X ,i /v I V O R Y C O A S TsW   N   G H A N A\           N NIG E R IA 
S T ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ --4



