FILE  co~~~~~~~               Document of
Fas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r 
The World Bank                  |        p7          4
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             l                            I
Report No. P-2118-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
June 24, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Malian Franc (MF)
US$1.00               =       MF 490
MF 1 million          =       US$2,041
MEASURES
Im2                            3.28 ft.
I m2                          10.76 sq. ft.
1 km                 =         0.38 sq. mile
I hectare            =         2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Operations de Developpement:                     State Development Corporations
ADF:                                             African Development Fund
DNAFLA:  Direction Nationale de l'Alphabe-       National Directorate of Functional
tisation Fonctionnelle et la            Literacy and Applied Linguistics
Linguistique Appliquee                  (MEN)
DNFAR:   Direction Nationale de la Formation     National Directorate of Rural
et de l'Animation Rurales               Training (MDR)
FAC:     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation          French Bilateral Assistance Fund
FED:     Fonds Europeen de Developpement         European Development Fund
IPGP:    Institut de Productivite et de          National Institute for Management
Gestion Previsionnelle
IPN:     Institut Pedagogique National           National Pedagogical Institute (MEN)
IPR:     Institut Polytechnique Rural            Rural Polytechnical Institute (MEN)
(Katibougou)
MDR:     Ministere du Developpement Rural        Ministry of Rural Development
MEN:     Ministere de lEducation                 Ministry of Education
Nationale
OACV:    Operation Arachide et Cultures          Groundnut/Foodcrop Development
Vivrieres                               Scheme (MDR) - a Bank-financed
agricultural project (Credit 491-MLI)
USAID:                                           United States Agency for
International Development



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MALI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Mali
Amount:                  US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The project would be implemented in the period
1977-82 and would comprise:
(a) Construction or conversion of building, equip-
ment and furniture for:
(i)  two science/technology centers, originally
programmed under the First Project and serv-
ing groups of urban lower secondary schools;
science rooms and technology workshops for
about 20 rural lower secondary schools; and
renovation of a teacher training college
specializing in science, technology and
agriculture;
(ii) two agricultural and one livestock training
centers for junior technicians;
(iii) a national management institute;
(iv) offices and houses for a functional literacy
program.
(b) Equipment, materials, and operating expenses for
the Project Unit, for a functional literacy pro-
gram, and for the development and testing of new
programs identified by the preinvestment study
of basic education.
(c) Provision of 142 man-years of specialists, fellow-
ships and support staff.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:         The estimated cost of the project, including taxes
and duties of US$0.8 million is US$12.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$7.1 million.
Details are as follows:
Project Cost Summary
Local   Foreign    Total   % of Total
---- US$ (million) -----   Base Cost
Lower secondary schools                       0.9       1.1      2.0        20.0
Agricultural training center
(Samanko)                                    0.6        0.7      1.3        14.0
Extension worker center (Kita)                0.3       0.4      0.7         8.0
Livestock aide training school (Sotuba)       0.8       1.0      1.8        18.0
National Management Institute (Bamako)        0.6       0.8       1.4       14.0
Functional literacy program                   0.5       0.9      1.4        14.0
Basic education study                         0.1       0.3      0.4         4.0
Project Unit                                  0.3       0.4      0.7         8.0
Base Cost estimate                            4.1       5.6      9.7       100.0
Physical Contingencies (6%)                   0.2       0.4      0.6
Price Escalation (16%)                        0.6       1.1      1.7
Total Project Cost                            4.9       7.1     12.0
Total Project Cost
Net of taxes                                                  11.2
Financing Plan           The proposed Credit of US$10.0 million would meet
about 89% of the project's total cost, net of taxes,
and finance all foreign exchange requirements plus
some US$2.9 million of local costs. The Republic of
Mali would provide the remaining 30% of the local
costs plus US$0.8 million for taxes and duties.



Estimated                                               Cumulative
Disbursements:             IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursements
1978                      1.57
1979                      6.44
1980                      9.30
1981                      9.70
1982                     10.00
Procurement
Arrangements:          Civil works and furniture contracts, estimated at
US$4.5 million, would be for small and widely dis-
persed buildings at some 26 sites. Such contracts
would be awarded in accordance with local competitive
procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Small,
scattered buildings totalling US$0.4 million would be
constructed by force account. Orders for equipment
and materials, estimated to cost approximately US$2.1
million, would be grouped wherever possible in lots of
not less than US$50,000, and contracts would be
awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for
international competitive bidding. Small equipment
contracts, amounting to less than US$50,000, would be
awarded on the basis of quotations or through local
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA.
Technical
Assistance:           Expatriate personnel costs have been estimated at an
average of US$50,000 per man-year. Technical assist-
ance would be needed for specialized fields such as
architecture, curriculum development and agricultural
training methods.
Appraisal Report:        1379-MLI
Map:                     IBRD 10704



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Mali in an amount equivalent to
US$10 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Education
project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report on "Recent Economic Developments in Mali" (233a-MLI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 27, 1973. An economic
mission visited Mali in March 1976 and again in February 1977. Its con-
clusions are reflected in the following paragraphs. An Economic Memorandum
will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly.
3.        With a per capita GNP of $95 Mali is one of the poorest countries
of Africa and amongst the 29 least developed countries identified by the
United Nations. It is handicapped by serious obstacles to development. The
extreme variability of rainfall causes sharp fluctuations in crop and live-
stock production. Access to foreign markets is made difficult by its land-
locked position and the long distances - more than 1000 km - to the nearest
seaports, Abidjan and Dakar. Development is also constrained by the short-
age of skilled manpower and the narrow domestic market for industrial pro-
ducts. About 90% of the population depends for livelihood on crop farming,
animal husbandry, forestry and fishing. Exports consist almost entirely of
agricultural commodities and livestock. In 1972, the primary sector accounted
for 43% of GDP. The relative contribution of the primary sector declined in
1973 and 1974 owing to widespread drought; in 1975 it was somewhat lower than
in 1972.
4.        Over the fifteen years following independence economic growth has
barely kept ahead of the growth of population. During the 1960s GDP, in real
terms, increased at an average annual rate of 2.8% as compared to the average
population growth rate of 2.1%. During the drought of the early seventies,
GDP declined; and Mali's problems were further aggravated by international in-
flation, excessive credit expansion and growing budget and balance of pay-
ments deficits.- The Government has initiated action to redress major finan-
cial imbalances through credit restraint, substantial reduction of the sub-
sidy element in the prices of essential consumer goods, fertilizers and agri-
cultural equipment and improved tax collection. Good crop seasons in 1975
and 1976 facilitated the implementation of these measures. Though the
growth potential is significant, serious structural problems remain.
1/   Substantially identical to the Economic background section of the
President's Report Mali "Third Railway" project dated May 4, 1977.



-2-
The drought years: 1972-1974
5.        All economic sectors have in varying degrees been affected by the
recent drought, and their recovery is following different patterns. The
extent of losses of human lives is not known but has been severe among some
groups, particularly nomads and among them more so the elderly and the child-
ren. From an estimated 5.5 million head in 1971 the cattle herd was reduced
to only 3.5 million head in 1974.
6.        During the drought years the rate of investment was maintained at
about 16% of GDP with the aid of an increasing inflow of external resources.
The resource gap is estimated to have widened to nearly a third of GDP in
1974, an extraordinary level by any standards. In an effort to keep essential
supplies at a sufficient level and retail prices for basic goods low, espe-
cially in urban centers, the government resorted to large imports of cereals,
only partly financed by external aid, and consumption subsidies. Thus,
cereal imports shot up from 64,000 tons in 1972 to 235,000 tons in 1974, at a
time when the average import price trebled and the bill for imported petro-
leum doubled. To finance losses incurred by state enterprises charged with
imports and sales of subsidized goods, growing amounts of bank credit were
used. With the subsidies, price inflation was contained within strict limits,
the GDP deflator varying around 5-6% between 1970 and 1974. As supplies of
exportables were affected by the drought, exports receipts did not increase
as much as the favorable world prices would have permitted and the policy of
price containment and subsidization translated into very large external de-
ficits. At the end of 1974, net foreign assets of the banking system were
minus MF 64 billion (US$133 million) principally in the form of liabilities
with the "operations account" at the French treasury.
Uneven recovery: 1975-1976
7.        Normal rainfall resumed in 1975 and primary production--cereals,
as well as cotton and groundnuts--increased by more than 20% and total GDP
by an estimated 12%. Recovery of physical production, however, has been
accompanied by higher rates of inflation resulting from both the substantial
reduction in Government subsidies and the delayed impact of international
inflation, and the GDP deflator is estimated to have jumped by 18% in 1975.
While the resource gap was reduced it remained high, representing about
20% of GDP and foreign assets declined further to minus MF 90 billion
(US$190 million). Public dissaving continued to increase as growth of re-
venues lagged behind fast rising expenditures, particularly expenditure
on personnel. The wage bill increased rapidly because of cost of living
adjustments and the policy of government to serve as residual employer of
nationals who complete secondary or higher education. Current revenues did
increase as a result of efforts to improve tax collection, but not enough
to keep pace with rapidly growing expenditures. The current budget deficit
widened from 3.6 billion MF in 1972 to 7.6 billion MF in 1975, or about 27%
of total current revenues.



- 3 -
8.        In 1976, real growth of GDP continued though at a moderate pace
(4 to 5%). At the same time, a slower rate of world inflation and redressal
measures by the government have begun to have a favorable impact in the
financial sphere.
9.        Credit expansion was reduced sharply, the overall increase in out-
standing indebtedness of the economy to deposit banks being of the order of
10% over the first nine months of 1976. At the beginning of the year the
Central Bank discount rate was raised from 3.5 to 6.0% with corresponding
increases in the whole set of borrowing and lending rates of deposit banks.
And a new banking law, providing for legal minimum cash reserve and liquidity
ratios, is to be promulgated soon. The rate of inflation slowed in 1976,
even though prices of sugar, soap and groundnut oil had been raised in
1975 and power tariffs as well as prices of gasoline and kerosene were in-
creased last year. Producer prices of agricultural products, with the ex-
ception of groundnuts, remained unchanged. The combined losses of state en-
terprises are expected to have been much lower in 1976 despite marketing
problems still experienced by some of them.
10.       The balance of payments deficit in 1976 is provisionally estimated
to have come down to US$32 million from US$43 million in the preceding year.
As in the past the deficit was largely financed through the "operations
account". The improvement in the balance of payments despite larger imports
is attributable to higher volume and prices of cash crop exports, exports of
foodgrains, some debt rescheduling, larger capital inflows and higher trans-
fer receipts. Despite this, Mali's net foreign assets have somewhat further
decreased, and at the end of 1976 were practically at minus MF 100 billion
(US$200 million). The budget deficit for 1976 was still uncomfortably large
(MF 10 billion) and it is unlikely to be significantly smallet in 1977.
Foreign capital and debt
11.       Public investment is mainly financed by foreign aid.   During most
of the sixties the USSR and the People's Republic of China were the most
important aid donors. At the end of 1973, they held about one-third each
of Mali's external-public debt disbursed and outstanding. Gross disburse-
ments (grants and loans) from DAC sources increased from US$24 million in
1969 to US$108 million in 1974. Roughly 60% came from bilateral sources
(mainly France, United States, Germany and Canada). Since the early sev-
enties the amount of public aid received by Mali has increased very rapidly
and grants account for most of the increase. The average annual gross inflow
of aid was less than US$20 million in the early 1970-71, reached US$50 mil-
lion during the first years of the drought (1972-73), peaked at US$112
million in 1974 and has decreased only marginally since then. Four-fifths of
total aid since 1970 has been in the form of grants.
12.       Mali's external public debt outstanding at the end of 1973 (ex-
cluding drawings on the operations account with the French treasury) was
US$368 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$85 million. IDA's
share in the total amount disbursed and outstanding was 17.4%. Repayments



- 4 -
of principal and interest due in 1973 would have claimed about 19% of for-
eign exchange earnings (15% in 1972), but actual debt service payments
were small (1.2% in 1972, 1.5% in 1973) owing to the rescheduling since
1970 of Chinese, Russian and some other debts under short-to medium-term
arrangements. However, debt service projections indicate that the ratio
may go up to about 19% by 1980, unless some further rescheduling of debt
takes place. Mali received five stand-by credits from the IMF between
1964 and 1971 which have been repaid. Apart from the stand-by credits
Mali drew SDR 5.00 million under the 1974 oil facility and obtained another
credit of SDR 3.99 million (in March 1976) under the 1975 oil facility.
Development prospects
13.       The return of more normal weather conditions has strengthened
the economy's short run position. In the medium and long term, the gov-
ernment must address two sets of interrelated objectives. The first is
the need to correct the profound financial imbalances that have developed
over the years, especially since the early seventies; the second is the
need to accelerate the pace of economic growth against a background of mini-
mal improvement in per capita income since 1960.
14.       The government has, since 1975, begun to tackle its financial
problems and has been relatively successful to re-establishing more economic
price relationships internally and relative to the rest of the world. Thus,
incentives to agricultural production are stronger; consumer prices more
closely reflect economic costs, the burden of subsidies has been somewhat
alleviated and credit expansion has slowed down. Reform of public enter-
prises has been undertaken, but is unavoidably a very gradual task; the
budget is still basically unbalanced but the government is now seriously
reconsidering its employment policy with a view to make it more selective;
the external accounts now benefit from a stronger export performance which
is expected to continue; it would be unrealistic to expect dramatic progress
in the reconstitution of external reserves in a matter of months or even a few
years, but the Franc area arrangements should provide the framework within
which to undertake this long-term task.
15.       Prospects for real long-term growth are probably better than in
other Sahelian countries. Agriculture has considerable potential for ex-
pansion both in the South where rainfed agriculture meets favorable con-
ditions and in the vast inland delta of the Niger river. The river also
offers much potential for power development to support industrial and
mineral development. Planned investment in new capacity for cotton seed
oil extraction, cotton textiles for export and sugar production, together
with growing crop and livestock production, will eventually strengthen the
balance of payments. Mineral resources (iron ore, phosphates) remain at
present unexploited but may offer interesting longer term development pos-
sibilities.
16.       The Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1974-1978)
gives high priority to agriculture, water and power development, industries
processing agricultural materials and road transport. The pattern of in-
vestment is well conceived, and allocation conforms broadly to the re-
source endowment of the economy, but the investment target of MF 395



billion (about US$783 million) in 1972 prices is no doubt over-ambitious,
which means that difficult choices will have to be made. Implementation
of the plan has encountered serious internal and external resource con-
straints, and the objectives for investment outlays are being revised down-
ward. At the same time, with regard to new investments, priority is being
given to projects and policies that will help correct over time the struc-
tural weakness of the balance of payments, with greater emphasis on export
crops, animal husbandry, minor irrigation works and the more efficient manu-
facturing activities. However, the selection of projects, especially capi-
tal intensive undertakings, needs to pay more attention to economic factors.
17.       The prospects for the Malian economy have improved following the
marked increase in output over the last two years and the stabilization mea-
sures taken by the Government. Nevertheless, sustained and viable growth in
the longer run depends crucially on investments that will strengthen the
economy's export base and reduce its dependence on imports. Mali's capacity
to finance new investment, however, is severely constrained by the limited
savings potential resulting from the extremely low per capita income level,
a situation further complicated by serious financial difficulties in the
public sector. Borrowing on conventional terms would add considerably to
the burden of servicing an already sizeable external debt. External aid,
accordingly, should be on soft terms and finance, besides foreign exchange
outlays, a significant proportion of local currency costs.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
18.       The proposed credit would be IDA's fourteenth operation in Mali,
which would bring total commitments of IDA funds to US$129.2 million. Actual
commitments so far amount to US$119.2 million, including the Third Railway
Project recently approved by the Board. Of this amount, US$54.9 million has
been disbursed as of April 30, 1977. Of the thirteen credits already approved,
six have been directed to the transport infrastructure, five to agriculture,
one in telecommunications and one in education. Transportation represents the
largest share (52%) of our past commitments followed by agriculture (nearly
41%). A summary statement of these credits as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects are set out in Annex II.
19.       Experience with most ongoing projects has been satisfactory.    How-
ever, a telecommunications project experienced some difficulties which have
now been remedied as reflected in an amendment which was approved by the Board
on July 21, 1976. The Second Highway Project faced some cost overruns due
mainly to a delay of more than one year, and the Board of Directors approved
in June 1975 a supplementary Credit of US$8.3 million to cover part of these
overruns. In addition, a dispute between the contractor and the Government
was recently settled following extensive discussions between the two parties.
Other items of the project are either completed or well under way.



-6-
20.       The Bank Group and other external aid agencies, have financed some
ten major development projects which geographically cover most of the coun-
try's cultivable area and benefit the majority of farm families, or about
90% of Mali's population. Bank Group's operations in this sector include the
Mopti Rice Project, the Integrated Rural Development Project and the Livestock
Project which were designed to assist the Government in its efforts to achieve
self-sufficiency in food and to improve export earnings. A fourth IDA financed
project, Mali Sud (Credit 669-MLI) for US$15.5 million, was approved by the
Board in December 1976. A Drought Relief Project composed of more than 20 sub-
projects aiding the most adversely affected rural population was approved by
the Board in 1973. In addition three of the five projects financed in the
transportation sector are directly related to the rural sector.
21.       Agriculture and livestock undoubtedly will continue to provide the
main development possibilities for Mali's largely rural population; the
largely semi-autonomous state corporations ("Operations") are the main channel
for external investment in these sectors. Because of the droughts in the
1968-74 period, these "Operations" have broadened their activities to include
food crops and livestock to permit farmers greater self-sufficiency. They
provide a reliable means for communication and logistics in remote rural
areas, as their networks of extension agents reach down to the villages.
Increasingly, these "Operations" are being used by the Government as vehicles
for delivery of social services, specifically functional literacy for adult
farmers and preventive health care at the village level.
22.       The main objectives of Bank Group lending in the future are:    (a)
to promote agricultural development so as to help the country attain some
degree of food self-sufficiency as well as generate adequate supplies of
agricultural materials for processing industries and exports; (b) to
strengthen the infrastructure facilities; and (c) to mobilize resources from
other donors through co-financing. In keeping with these overall objectives
and in line with the priorities established in the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan, Bank Group lending will continue to support the Government
in its efforts to increase agricultural production and rural incomes. Pre-
paration is underway for a Rice Project in FY 78 and a Groundnuts/Cereals
project in FY 79, the former consolidating and extending the first Mopti Rice
Project, and the latter a follow-up of the Integrated Rural Development
Project. As for infrastructure, a fourth highway project which might include
primary road rehabilitation and a program of road maintenance, is being
considered for FY 79. The emphasis on rural development and infrastructure,
however, does not preclude Bank Group financing in other areas. In this
context we are considering an Urban/DFC project for FY 79 designed to improve
living conditions through a basic package of urban services emphasizing
environmental sanitation and rehabilitation of existing facilities, and to
assist Government in creating new employment. Needless to say, successful
achievement of these objectives will depend, to a large extent, on the
availability in sufficient numbers of qualified manpower to design and carry
out development projects.



- 7 -
23.       The first Bank Group Education Project (Credit 420 MLI) assisted
the Government to improve the quality of science and technology education in
lower secondary schools and of technical and vocational education. It also
financed a pre-investment study to help the Government identify low-cost pro-
grams for providing literacy and numeracy (basic education) to a greater pro-
portion of children and adults than can be educated through the formal educa-
tion system. The proposed Second Education Project would build on the work
and on the results of the pre-investment study of the First Education Project.
It would also address priorities manpower needs in the economy, specifically:
the training and upgrading of managers and planners for all priority sectors;
the training of an increased number of junior agricultural and livestock field
technicians; and the extension of functional literacy and numeracy to addi-
tional groups of farmers in the Integrated Rural Development Project area
(Credit 491-MLI).
PART III: THE EDUCATION SECTOR
24.       In structure and organization, the formal education system is based
on the French model and is administered by the Ministry of Education (MOE).
A traditional six-year primary school program prepares for the three-year
lower secondary school program, which offers science, technology and other
foreign languages in addition to subjects taught in primary school. The lower
secondary school prepares for the three-year lycee program, but increasingly
its graduates enter agricultural and other vocational programs or the work
force. Higher education institutions have been created for agriculture,
engineering, public administration, medical training, and for the liberal
professions. Unlike many other countries in the region, the teaching force at
the primary and lower secondary levels is made up almost entirely of local
staff. There is also an institute - the Institut de Productivite et de
Gestion Previsionelle (IPGP) - to provide post-graduate training in business
and in-service courses for managers. Finally, Mali has developed a variety of
non-formal adult education programs, particularly in the area of functional
literacy.
25.       Girls are generally underrepresented in the formal education system.
Their participation is 36% in primary education, 25% in lower secondary and
progressively less in the upper levels of the system. While distribution
data are not available, it is likely that the participation of girls in rural
areas is generally less than in urban. Vocational training programs are
limited to secretarial, nursing, and teaching programs. In terms of economic
development, rural women are the priority since they are active in production
and through them lie the best chances for qualitative change in child rearing,
nutrition and family consumption patterns. The government recognizes this
and has initiated a program with the aid of UNICEF to study the life styles
of rural women with a view to improving their impact on development. The
basic education programs to be financed under the proposed project will be
carefully coordinated with the UNICEF-aided project and draw upon its ex-
perience. The functional literacy program, to be financed under this pro-
ject also addresses the needs of women but local custom tends to restrict
participation to unmarried women.



- 8 -
26.       Recurrent expenditures for education at all levels amount to about
US$24.0 million, or about 30% of total Government recurrent expenditures.
Salaries are lower than in other countries in the region, due to Mali's policy
of keeping public sector salaries low, and account for 60% of the education
budget. They represent about 75% of the primary and lower secondary schools
allocations, but even at these levels funds available for the purchase of
simple materials are reasonable, when compared with other countries in the
region. Nevertheless the salary bill remains the principal constraint to the
extension of education in Mali, particularly for primary education. A pre-
investment study financed under the First Education Project focuses on the
financing issue; possible solutions are community financing of salaries and
structural changes in existing programs to enable them to handle more students
while holding down costs. This is a promising approach, since communities
already finance construction of all schools through grade 9 and rural communi-
ties build, furnish and staff functional literacy centers.
27.       Supply and Demand for Trained Manpower.   In Mali, modern sector
employment opportunities lie mainly in the civil service, the state enter-
prises and the agricultural development projects. The personnel are generally
young and, as elsewhere in the West African region, the manpower requirements
are small in the public sector. New jobs are most likely to be created in
agriculture and related industries. While information on overall manpower
requirements is limited to a 1973 study by the Government, the general indica-
tions are that the education system is producing more graduates than there are
identified needs at the middle and higher levels, with the exception of
agricultural and livestock technicians where specific needs have been iden-
tified by a 1976 USAID executed manpower survey. The general implication of
the situation is that the education level of the work force is likely to
improve.
28.       There are some qualitative deficiencies in the output of the system
which may mean that jobs are not filled or are inadequately staffed. Despite
the Government's emphasis on science and technology in lower and upper secon-
dary education, lack of practical instruction at the lower secondary level
reduces the number of upper secondary students who study these subjects. The
consequence is that too few university students study scientific and techno-
logical subjects. Another major deficiency of the formal education system is
that its institutions do not address the problems of training and re-training
employed workers and civil servants. This is a particular problem at senior
and middle levels. Mali has taken some positive steps to alleviate this
problem by creating the IPGP and by carrying out an in-depth analysis of civil
service personnel requirements.
29.       The recent analysis by the USAID of sectoral manpower requirements
reveals specific needs for junior technicians in agriculture and livestock.
While the annual needs of the "Operations" for junior agricultural technicians
are about 200 through 1986, mainly for existing posts, annual output is only
90 due to lack of capacity in the training centers. In the livestock sector,



- 9 -
the output from the country's only training center for livestock technicians
(Ecole des Infirmiers Veterinaires - EIV) is less than 50% of the demand.
On the other hand, the needs for the middle and higher levels are already
being met.
30.       Success of the agricultural and livestock projects also depends
on improving farmers' knowledge and skills. At present, most farmers are
illiterate; a higher rate of literacy and numeracy would help farmers to
accept new techniques more readily, budget their revenues better, and pro-
gressively assume a more active role in managing their own development. The
Government attaches a high priority to functional literacy and farmer training
programs which address these objectives.
Educational Development Planning and Management
31.       The Government considers the formal education system as the most
reliable means for providing middle and higher level technical manpower. At
the same time, it recognizes that the growth of enrollments will have to be
carefully controlled. In terms of higher education too, it is trying to match
numbers and types of graduates to the economy's needs. The principal instru-
ment for improved planning and control of the education system will be the
MEN's national directorate for planning. Complementary to these measures, the
MEN plans to operate upgrading courses at the IPGP (para. 24) for headmasters,
inspectors and school business managers with a view to improving the overall
efficiency of the system.
32.       The Government's chief priorities are:   to improve instruction in
science, technology and practical subjects for lower secondary students, in
particular for rural schools, and to develop more efficient programs of basic
education. In the rural sector, major priorities are the training of junior
technicians for the agricultural and livestock operations and the complementary
extension of existing functional literacy programs to farmers. In the area of
management, the Government seeks the further development of the IPGP to enable
it to offer upgrading courses for employed senior and middle level managers in
all sectors, with priority given to Government enterprises and the civil
service.
Past Experience in the Education Sector
33.       The first Bank Group Education Project (Credit 420-MLI of July 1973)
provided US$5.0 million to assist the Government to improve the quality of
science and technology education in lower secondary schools and of technical
and vocational education.   It also financed technical assistance in planning,
including a pre-investment study carried-out by local and expatriate specialists
to help the Government identify low-cost programs for providing literacy and
numeracy (basic education) to a greater proportion of children and adults than
can be educated through the formal education system.   At the lower secondary
level, 11 science/ technology centers, serving groups of urban schools, were
to be built.  In the area of vocational and technical education, classrooms
and workshops serving the country's middle-level industrial and commercial
vocational institute and the technical high school were to be renovated and
re-equipped. However, inflation caused a substantial cost overrun, and only



- 10 -
6 of the 11 urban science/technology centers can be built under the project.
The Government has requested IDA financing for two of the remaining urban
centers  to serve pressing needs and they are included in the proposed project.
It has, however, decided not to proceed with the three other centers for the
time being and instead plans to concentrate its efforts on improving the
programs in science/technology and agriculture education in rural lower
secondary schools since the rural sector offers better chances of employment.
Progress in the implementation of the rest of the first project is good. All
construction and equipment contracts have been awarded, and the project
facilities are expected to be completed by mid-1978. The first phase of the
pre-investment study, identifying specific basic education programs, has been
completed and the Government seeks financing for their development under the
second project.
34.       While it is too early to assess the educational impact of the first
project, experience indicates that the reform of key programs in science and
technology requires a sustained effort and cannot be completed in four to five
years. In terms of improving planning, technical assistance to train local
counterparts on-the-job is not sufficient: there is a need for systematic
training of planners and administrators. In project implementation, it has
become clear that the Government needs a strong service, capable of planning
the provision and location of schools, and of designing and equipping them.
The Government intends to develop the existing Project Unit into such a
service. It has also become clear during implementation that careful coordi-
nation with government serv:ices concerned by the project is required. Under
the proposed project, a committee would be created to advise the Project Unit
and provide liaison with these services.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Project Background
35.       In March 1976, an IDA mission visited Bamako to identify a second
education project, and discussed educational development priorities with
the Government of Mali. The Government's priorities include the improvement
of science and technology instruction in secondary schools and the development
of low-cost programs for providing a basic education to a greater number of
Malians. The Government also requested that IDA consider assisting the
Government in meeting specific manpower training needs. The proposed second
project addresses the Government's priorities and was appraised in June 1976.
Negotiations were held from April 18 to 21, 1977, with a Malian delegation led
by H.E. Soumare (Minister of National Education). The Appraisal Report (No.
1379-MLI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objective
36.       Consistent with the educational strategy established for the first
project and the Government's latest assessment of priorities, the Project



- 11 -
objectives are to: extend the reform of science, technology and related
instruction to rural lower secondary schools and to develop low-cost basic
education programs. The project also aims at training and upgrading managers
and planners for all priority sectors; training junior agricultural and
livestock field technicians; and extending the functional literacy and numer-
acy programs first supported by a rural development project (Credit 491-MLI)
to additional groups of farmers.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would include:
(a) Lower Secondary Science and Technology Programs
The project would provide for the construction, equipment and
furnishing of science and technology laboratories and workshops for about
2,000 urban and 3,000 rural lower secondary students. The urban component
would comprise the construction of two science and technology centers at
Gao and Kayes deferred from the first project (see para 33), comprising
laboratories and workshops, together with office and storage space for the
center directors, teachers and support staff. Teachers would be trained by
an existing team of instructors using training programs and curricula designed
for the First Project. The Government's current pilot program for science
and technology in rural schools in the Sikasso region would be extended to
provide about 20 rural lower secondary schools with simple multipurpose
science and technology facilities, equipment and adequate water supply. An
existing teacher training college at Louloumi would be renovated and equipped
for upgrading courses for teachers of science, technology and agriculture. In
line with existing practice, physical facilities would be constructed by local
building cooperatives or parent teacher associations. Specialists (11 man-
years) would assist the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) in developing
and testing science, technology and agricultural programs adapted to the
region and in training teachers. Programs for technology are already under
preparation. During negotiations, the Government has agreed to establish and
implement procedures satisfactory to the Association to evaluate the effec-
tiveness of the institutions and programs included in the project (Section
4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Training Agricultural and Livestock Technicians
The project would assist MDR in the improvement and expansion of
junior agricultural and livestock technician training by renovating an exist-
ing 120-place training center (Samanko), by constructing a new field training
center (Kita) for extension workers, and by constructing a livestock training
center (Sotuba). In addition to construction, the project would finance
equipment, instructional materials, and six vehicles for field work. The
project would also finance three man-years of an agricultural training
specialist to evaluate and design training programs for the agricultural
training centers; six man-years of specialists to establish training programs
for the Sotuba livestock technicians training center; and six man-years of



- 12 -
specialists to establish programs for the Kita center. On a parallel basis,
USAID is financing the construction of two other centers at Same' and M'
Pessoba. Design specifications and staffing requirements were worked out in
collaboration with the Association. To ensure that the centers financed under
the project and by USAID meet the demands of the "Operations" and the MDR, in
number and type of technicians, the MDR would collaborate closely with these
clients. To this end, a condition of disbursement for the construction of the
three centers will be that an advisory committee, with terms of reference and
membership acceptable to IDA, be created to advise on admissions to programs
and on the placement of trainees. The committee would be chaired by the
Minister of Rural Development or his representative (Schedule 1, para. 4,
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government will also ensure that the
necessary complementary technical assistance for the junior agricultural
technician training is provided by a competent agency. This will be a condition
of disbursement for the construction of the Samanko center (Schedule 1, para.
4, draft Development Credit Agreement). The availability of qualified Malian
instructors is an important condition for the success of the centers, and the
Government has decided that these MDR instructors will be accorded the benefits
and advantages already received by similar grades in the MEN.
(c) Training and Upgrading Managers for Priority Sectors
The project would finance the construction, equipment and furniture
for the IPGP at Bamako, to provide about 90 places for full-time students and
serve about 400-500 part-time students per year. The project would also
finance 10 man-years of specialists in the fields of manpower planning, project
management and budgeting techniques, educational planning and administration
together with 4 man-years of administrative posts. Ten fellowships for train-
ing lecturers overseas would be financed under the project, to accelerate the
Malianization of the teaching staff. Since there is a need to reserve a
greater number of places in full-time training courses for managers employed
in public and private enterprises, particularly at the middle level, the Govern-
ment has agreed that it will reserve two-thirds of the places in full-time
courses for managers or potential managers sponsored by their employers, with
the remaining one-third to be filled by qualified university graduates selected
by an entrance examination. (Section 4.03 draft Development Credit Agreement).
To ensure that programs meet the requirements of the Institute's clients, the
Government has agreed to conduct a study of their training requirements by
September 1, 1978. The study will be updated every two years, evaluating ongoing
programs and courses and making recommendations to the Institute's advisory
committee on programs (Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
(d) Functional Literacy Programs for Farmers
The project would build on the experience acquired in the Integrated
Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI) to improve and extend the farmer
functional literacy programs of the Groundnut/Food Crop Development Scheme
(OACV). It would finance the costs of inspectors and supervisors required to
establish the three new regional inspectorates responsible for administering
the program and supplying materials to 1,600 village-financed centers. The
MEN's functional literacy service would provide pedagogical supervision of the
program and would train the instructors required for the centers. It would



- 13 -
also be responsible for evaluation of the programs. The OACV would be re-
sponsible for all field staff and for the management of the program. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the DNAFLA and the OACV will
conduct regular assessments of the progress of farmers participating in the
functional literacy program and provide annual financial reports to IDA in the
third quarter of each calendar year (Section 4.04 draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(e) Developing Low-cost Basic Education Programs
The project would build on the work of the first project by financ-
ing the development and testing of basic educations programs for both children
and adults, specifically; (a) more appropriate formal education programs in
reading, writing and arithmetic for primary school children, using national
languages; and (b) vocational courses in farm budgeting, household accounts,
crafts, child care and nutrition for rural men and women. In particular, the
project would aid the MEN by financing the national specialists and consultant
services (5 man-years) required for developing and testing the programs, three
fellowships for staff training together with the costs of materials, vehicles
and domestic travel costs. The design and estimated costs of the programs to
be developed will be agreed on by the Government and IDA to ensure that they
may be subsequently extended at reasonable cost (Schedule I, para. 4, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(f) The Project Implementation Unit
The Project Unit created under the first project (para 38) will be
expanded to enable it to assume all responsibility for design work and site
supervision. The project would finance the existing staff, together with
two building engineers, two draftsmen, three site supervisors, and a senior
accountant, for a total of 10 man-years of specialists and 18 man-years of
support staff. The project would also finance five vehicles for supervision
of the widely dispersed building sites, the equipment and materials required
by the Unit, and the unit's operating costs. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment confirmed that a committee responsible for liaison and representative of
the agencies and services concerned with the project will be established not
later than July 1, 1977 (Section 3.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
38.       The Project Unit created under the first project has proved effec-
tive. It comprises a director, an architect, an administrator and local
support staff and will be strengthened under this project (para. 37f).
The unit's accounting staff would be responsible for recording, analyzing
and projecting quarterly expenditures for the project items; and for providing
annual statements, where required, to IDA and to the external accountants.
39.       To avoid delays in the progress of work under this project due to
Government's difficulties to pre-finance the expenditures to be reimbursed
under the credit and in order to provide working capital, a revolving fund



- 14 -
of US$200,000 financed out of the credit will be opened in a local bank
immediately after the date of effectiveness of the credit. The Government
will be allowed to use this account for expenditures for the project eligible
for financing under the proposed Credit. The revolving fund will be adminis-
tered by the Project Unit.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$12.0 million, of which
US$0.8 million are taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of
US$7.1 equivalent, representing about 60% of the total. Construction costs
have been estimated on the basis of recently awarded contracts for similar
works, adjusted for price escalation. Space and other standards are compar-
able with those of similar facilities financed by the Bank Group. The
average cost per square meter would be US$290 equivalent, which is reasonable
given the paucity of local materials, the dispersion of the sites and Mali's
remoteness from the coast. Expatriate personnel costs have been estimated at
an average of US$50,000 per man-year, inclusive of contingencies, which
reflects UNDP and the Government's contractual experience. The recurrent
expenditure incurred by the project is expected to constitute about 1.5% of
the Government's budget for education and training in 1981.    The proposed IDA
Credit of US$10.0 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent and about US$2.9 million of local costs, for an overall 89% of total
project cost net of taxes.
Procurement
41.       Civil works and furniture contracts, estimated at US$4.5 million,
would be for small and wideLy dispersed buildings at some 26 sites. Such
contracts would be awarded in accordance with local competitive procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Small, scattered buildings totalling US$0.4
million would be constructed by force account. Orders for equipment and
materials, estimated to cost approximately US$2.1 million, would be grouped
wherever possible in lots of not less than US$50,000, and contracts would be
awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Small equipment contracts, amounting to less than US$50,000, would
be awarded on the basis of quotations or through local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Disbursement
42.       The funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
75% of total expenditures for civil works - US$3.4 million; 75% of total
expenditures for furniture - US$0.1 million; 100% of total expenditures for
equipment and materials - US$2.1 million; and 100% of total expenditures for
personnel and 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships - US$2.9 million.
US$0.2 million of the proposed Credit would be allocated for the revolving
fund and US$1.3 million would remain unallocated to cover contingencies
and price increases. Disbursements would be fully documented.



- 15 -
Project Benefits and Risks
43.       The project seeks to improve the quality of science and technology
teaching in lower secondary schools. This program, aided by the First Educa-
tion Project, will be extended to a group of rural schools. The improvement
of these programs is expected to increase the number of students studying
these subjects at the upper secondary level and entering vocational training
programs as part of the Government's plans to adapt the education system to
employment opportunities. The curriculum reform of rural lower secondary
schools should also improve the level of candidates for the junior agricul-
tural technician training programs and enable school leavers to find employ-
ment in the "Operations" in the project area. The new programs will focus on
applied technology and agriculture of the type likely to be utilized by these
development projects. The manpower training components of the project are
expected to have a beneficial impact on the economy by supplying practically-
trained junior technicians in agriculture and livestock for development
projects. The instructional programs are sound, but the recruitment and
retention of qualified Malian instructors and practical field training within
the development.projects will be crucial to the success of the agricultural
and livestock components. At IDA's request, the Government has introduced an
appropriate salary policy for instructors and the establishment of an advisory
committee, representative of the "Operations", to ensure the effective organi-
zation of the field training of future technicians. The functional literacy
program is a complementary program to the training of technicians, since it
seeks to make farmers more receptive to new techniques and better able to
handle their own affairs. OACV's control and management of the program is
likely to ensure that the participants and program content are appropriate.
The Management Institute (IPGP) seeks to train and upgrade senior and middle
level managers and administrators in key sectors, including education and
agriculture. Its success will depend on the Institute's ability to work
closely with employers in the selection of trainees and in the design of
programs which reflect their needs. The Government and IDA will carefully
monitor the training given at the IPGP. A study of employers' training needs
will be completed by September 1978 and updated every two years, evaluating
ongoing programs and making recommendations in this regard to the Institute's
advisory committee on programs.
44.       The project component which carries the greatest potential benefits
and risks is the development of basic education programs. Illiteracy is high,
and given Mali's limited financial resources and population growth the primary
education system will need to be modified if it is to increase enrollments
from their present level of about 22% of the 6-13 age group. At the same
time, more effective programs for adults in post-literacy training programs
and nutrition and child care for women are required. Such programs will be
innovative and care should be exercised in the design of programs to ensure
they meet the criteria of low costs, replicability, and wide interest to
participants. Their organization will also prove a challenge, and it seems
likely that the use of development projects as a vehicle and framework for the



- 16 -
testing of such programs will be the most promising approach. IDA and the
Government will review the programs to ensure that their design and estimated
costs are likely to permit subsequent extension to larger groups, and the
programs costs and effectiveness will be regularly evaluated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali and the
Association, the Report of the Commitee provided for in Article V, Section I
(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
46.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this Report. The conditions of disbursement (Schedule I, para. 4, draft
Credit Agreement) would be as follows: (a) for construction of the agricul-
tural and livestock training centers, the creation of an advisory committee,
with terms of reference and membership acceptable to IDA, to be chaired by
the Minister of Rural Development or his representative, to advise on admis-
sions, programs and the placement of trainees; (b) for construction of the
junior agricultural technician training center (Samanko), the Government will
ensure provision of adequate technical assistance by a competent agency; and
(c) for financing the development of basic education programs, an agreement
between the Government and IDA on the design and estimated costs of the
program of courses to be developed.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington D.C.
June 24, 1977



bO 4 r.
TIALK 10
11AI                * SOCIAL 11UA1C1S  8 DgATA SIEET
MALI                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1240.0                                      NOST RECENT 
AORIC.    t4                          1960       19t0 ESTIMATE            NIGER         0. KMAE    P. SENEGAL
_* ~~~~- .._- .._-- -- -------   ............. _ -.... @ .._ - -   . _- --------_---- *
GNP PER CAPITA (US5                     40.0         0.0        PO.O              110.0     17 0.0       240.o
...._ .............
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MND-YR. M ILLION)           4.1         5.1         5.7               4.0        1.6          4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SUARE RH.                         3.0         4.0         5.0               3.0        3.0        22.0
P-R s. RN. AGRICULTURAL LAND         10.0 /      12.0         ..                 ..       26.0         39.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE NIRNH RATE PER THOUSAND         50.1       49.6        50.1               52.3      45.4        4P.6
CRUDE DEArH RArE PER THOUSAND         32.4       27.1        25.9               25.7      26.4         24.4
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        123.0      120.0         ..                 ..         ..       156.0
LiFE EXpECTANCT AT aIRTH FYRS)        34.7       37.2        38.0               38.S      39.0        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCFION RATE                3.8        3.3         3.3               3.5        3.0          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RAtE (I)
TOTAL                                  .9         2.2        2.4                 2.8       2.2          2.6
URBAN                                   .          ..                            6.3       7.2          6.0
JAWAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)           11.2         ..         ..                 8.2      30.1         29.0
AGE STAUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 T  14 TEARS                        4252 2     49.1         .                44.5       42.1         41.2
is T] 64 TEARS                        54.5       49.3         ..               52.6       54.8        54.9
65 YEARS ANO OVER                      3.3        1.6         ..                2.9        3.1          3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8         1.0         ..                0.9        0.8         0.8
ECO4OMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8                                                                . 0.9  .  -   1.0 /  D   1.2 .
FANILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..          ..         ..
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..         ..
EMPLOYKERT
TOTAL L4AOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          a300.0     2A00. 0         ..            1900.0      6 0.0      1600.0
LABOR :ORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          94.0       91.0         ..               91.0       E7.0         73.0
UNEMPLOTED (I OF LABOR FORCE)            ..          .           ..                ..         ..          7.0
INCOME DISTRI8UTIoN
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D AT-
HIGHEST 5s OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..         ..
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..
LOWEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
DISTRIqUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
s OWNE) ar TOP 101 OF ODNERS              .
X OWNE) ar SMALLEST IOX OWNERS
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             39000.0 L 41490.0       33330.0  b       58260.0    38330.0      16640.o
POPULATION PEA NUSN4ESN               J650.0     3860. 0      2)48o.o  ;       I a 141.0  1 39 0.0     2680.0
POPULATION PER HHOSPITAL RED          1490. 0 a  1390.0 o     1380.0           2230.0      460. 0       810.o
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALOiIES (0 OF REQUIREMENTS)         90.0        92.0       88.0/d             91.0       9.            .
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              66.0        69.0       694 0              72 0       49 .         64.0
WO WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           2. 23.0 /               .               24.0 0&    22.OLb       za.0/
OEATH IATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                                                                               S. 0 .  
EDOUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RAtIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        7.0        20 2. 21.O/4.                  14.0 /        73.0/a   38.0 /4
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0 3a2. 0/                                10         5.0 ,      1I0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0        12.O        12.0 1o3.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
1: 0- SECONDARY)                     15O     ~   4.            .00                        12.-.00       3. 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CX)                  5.0 If    40.         000 ID                                    10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)
OCCUPIEO OWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPE) WATER (I)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I O ALL DWELLINGS)
RUR4L DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY I)                      ..          *.          **
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU Pop)          2.D        12.0        14.0/a             36.0       30.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        1.     0 0                    31.0        4 .0        9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            6.0        11.0       15.0                10.0 2I9.0             7.0
NEWSPRINT (TG/YR PER CAP)                                                                    z.
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE                                          -                            0.-



Page 2 of I pages
HamE
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betweeo 1968 end 1970 and for Most Recent Esitoate betweso
1973 end 1975.
-n Senegal han been sleoted as an objective c-.te7:ivtee ita GNP per capita (1970) is 'about three tines tiat of Malt, netting an ambitious but
not unreelietic target. Both c.oatries.lie in the 'Selielian iona, Senegal being MallsI western neighbour; have similar productico patterns,
with groundouta playing a=mJor role; andis.imilii inonsMary arrangements with Francs.       Their populatloons are roughly cooparable.
MALI               1,960    /a  19-62;    &, Ratib'of'pnpleio`      ude    5 and 65 and over to total labour force;       jp. G-ovenment personnel, including
midwives and assistant nurses;, '- :L    Go4ornaent hospital establishments;       L   6-i  and 15-17 years of age respectively;
Lf  Rot including privAt&,a6ctioinal schools.'
1970         Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labour force;         /b   Goveronet hoopital astablishnents;
Is.1961-66; /d 6-lb and 15-17 yearn of age respectively.
MOST FECEIIT ESTIMATE:     LB. 1972;     /b  Governet;       Li  1971;     /d   1969-71 average;     /.  6-11 years of age.
OTTER              1970         Ratio of population coder i5 and 65 and over to total labour force;         /b   196h-66;    /c   7-12 and 13-19 yearn of age
respectively.
C. AFRIC&N NE?.    1970         Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labour for'ce;        lb   196L-66;    /, 5-10 and 11-17 yearn of age
respectively.
SENEGAL            2.920        Ratio of population under iS and 65 and over to total labour force;         /b   Gov-ernet hospital establishceots;
ci1961-66;       Ld  Unadjusted;     LeB. towr secondary I-eal.
15, Septeoher 15, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDiICATO5S
teed Area (thco he2;                                                                    Pspnintion ear suesing sarac   - Pupol.into  divided by nnber of praticing
Total1   Total surface a-    coprising lend nes  and inland wacara.                       sale and feals Rend oneorea       "trained  or "cartified" nurses  and
cA-i.    M-Mo  rec...  estimat  of aglul   -siae    od t-p-r-ily or Pasn-                 -uiliary per-nosi with tr-inig orearec.
naotily for crps, psatorsa, -krht & hitches g-rdan    cc to lic elnlow.               Posu1ation ear hoseiat1 bad - PopuIation divided by macher of hospital beds
-citahls in pbIc ad prict        anraIad      pcird hospital and
GNPpear cacte filS$) - ORP par capita eatias te  at curent arkat price,                    -shbilitatio   cains     nldaa cusng hone      and etabliah-te for
calculated by -sc   c   -ioosra-, sthd an World Bash Atlae (1973-75 hania) ;            c-todial and preostiv- care.
1960;1910 end 1911 data.                                                              Par .aoita sunply of calories ft of r-snirmaent)   C-Copoted fr- energy
equivalent.of se t food nuppliee avilable in contp prt caita par day;
Posulat,i:: and vital sttistic,                                                           avilabi   applies comprias d-stl      production, aot     less spo-ce, ned
pcsult1    (ind_yea million)     na of July first:  if not avilable, ovaraan              hbnngea to etob; net eappi. Insamlode animal fad, aenda , quanities usd
of rw  and-yea-  simts      1)60, 1970 med 1971 data.                                   in fond Pe....eanig and lonasa in diatrtbotion; r-qoi-oete were eatinated
byiPAi base.d on phyeislgicai.. neda for n.t-I activity and health conaid-
Ponulation dens ity - ear soone  k. - Mid-y-s population par square kil-matar             a   ge anire-tasal teop-erstc, body wigtbt, ags and ass distributions of
(1Sf1 hente.es) of to"Iiar.                                                              papulatian, and elbowing     forin castedat bhsashod lau-1.
Pooainden-ity  et     s-ar  kan of sriy. leand - Cn,putsd a above for              PaCsii     oel-fs-t              - frn  erdy) - Notate content of Par capita
aeiciurl  ad only.                                                                net nopply of foed par day; eat supply of food is defined as above; requir-
ments far all couatrien  -atblishad by USDA Economl   ca.e.r-b Service
Vitet etatiatice                                                                           proide fee a nini-o    lotet    of 60 grom  of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rate setr thonsand. av Rag  - Annu-l live birch  par thocasd of                20 gra cf animal and plae protein, of which 10 grom      should he animal
aid-year pupolutton; ten-year   richseetin ov-rgea ending in 19ff end 1970,              protein; these atend-rd  ar  lone r thac those of 71 gi-   of total protein
ande.  fiv-yea  --erge eodies in 1975 for east recant astimate.                           and 23 grom  of aniaai protein an an overage for the world, Prop    ard by FAO
Crdo death rac tee thouoend. --ss      - Annua deathe pan thouaand of sid-yanr            in the Third World rood Sar-y.
population ; ten-year anfthti. --vera     endies in 190 and 1970 and fiv-              Per caetaoroi naoly iro          animal ond puins - Proteis supply of food
yea  avtgede        n191frms          eet satloort                                      der,ived frn animalsand p1.e. i tone- par day.
Inateralr :eefthou)tb-  -    Inoa datha  fWiefnta under one year of age         leach rate f/thou) ages 1-h- Ae- usul.deatho per thoonand in age grop 1-4
pertho....d lic   b    trha.                                                             year, to children in this age groP; suggestedasn indic-cor of
tics eseaccancy at birth fvra) - Average macbar of yese  of life renaing at           ca lnotrition.
birth; cannily fic-y-a a-srgen aedies in 1960, 1970 sod 1971 for d-vlop-
1mg coontrion                                                                          Education
Groa  rnr-ductio rc-t     vraenohr olice d-oghtern .            oa wil hea,.r            Adbua:ted.enrojLane .thraio  perImr                          I'oi-lnnl,nco   l   age  en par-
is he r aneorprdutiv        peiod if she esperie-c     presen.t age -epcficnneeo                     eur     colaepplto;io               e   childrenee    f-liyanre
fertility raise.; osuni1y fiv-yea   avrsgee en ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975               hut adjua ted for differet isesthe of primary edo..neton; for t-otrias   lt
for docoloping nonotrien                                                                 univrsa etducation,e enrolmet uay    ae-ed 100% since es    pupils a- helo
Poonlailon aromA, rate 1)_- totl - cospond a.-ua  growth eaten of sid-yesr          or above the   ffitiel sholge
pouainfr1950-hi, 1960-70 ad1970-75.                                            Ad uted erlmetrtio..-secndary achool - Computed as above; ascondary
Poewlation grneth rate fT.) - urban -Computedli     growth rate of    ineduainrqre                            at leas t four yae-  of epproved primary instr-tion;
population; diffesent dofiniticon of urbon orasny offact tp-bility of                    proides general, vocationa   re t.eeher training inatr-tions toe pupiis
data among cacactriss                                               f12t17 year      of ee   nrePondent     cor       rsar  gener-llyseld.
ccbao p=oltion f% of icio) - atl.ocf urban to tmini population; dgffe-at                 Sna're oftscholn eoigdd ffie an         eod levels) -Tt        Year  of
doftirtllono of orb. anarn  say affect cparbility of data -mog nonuitea.                 etholies; at secondary leve, vctional i-midas say be partially o
completely e..iuded.
Angn ot-ror   correc t) - Childre   (i-1i y-ar) , wrhing-nge (15-Oh yearn),              Vovationn1 -nrl..eot (1. of occ-dary) - Vocation.. tintit-cio.. ion lde
a  --otrd  6h)y...r a.od 00c) 00 por-estge- of mid-yea    populatio.                    echoical, loduatrial c- other prfron    which op-rae indep-ed-tlyora
ice denodeocy2 raio. -Ratio of .popo    foio coder 15 and 65 cod ovr to th-c               doparnonts of secodary i-titotoo.-
ofIaesI through hi4.                                                                   Adul,t iiterec rate fT) - Litorate odlIn (oble to red atd write) as Pr-
IcS.mi dR.dny nd             nou   of population under 15 amd 65 and ove   to              tenog   of total advit popoIation ogd 15 year    nod over.
the labor force in age aroop of 15-hiy4   re
fanil elnoina  accet-or   - lt.itive. thou) - C-ocltilu  nunb-orfa....pt-r          Noosing
of birth-coctrol d-viten  ord- ...pic.. of national fanily planning pengro-snnserro                     (urbo) - Average cnh-r of Persons pe     roa  to onnopied
since incption                                                                           oc      icua Idwellings in urban arena; dAweitigo oc.cld  co-p-rnns-
Family el...ninu-usr --Ct of ua-rtd       o     Perr-tge- of -aried womoc of                tr-ctres and unoccpied pn
child-hearig age (15-4i y-ar)     h.a oso birth-control do-in to Ott macetcd           Occpied dwellings fbu.      ta   ae fh_t    - Ottpiod  on-eoicoa1 deelling
wono i    san  age grouP.                                                                to urban and rura  areas withoot inaide or.-tid. piped cuter f-nijitij
as prcctai  ofalloccpied dosilioge.
fEclaynet                                                                                 nce to     . eetr.ityftofaldwslMogw        ~--Cnstico..l dwrIlinga with
Toto labor force (thauand) - E-onomi-Ily entice parson, i-cIuding -rnd                     eocicity in lIving q-tr-n .a Porc..t of total dwelliogn it urban od
forc   lesad  ...plcyed hot occlding hou..atesi , atud-tis, etc-; definitions             -.ra aren..
tocricun  .nenriea ar  -o oparshie.                                                 gurni ~dwelling connected cc electricityt%)     Compoted aabove f- rural
tahr frcinaroutr             )  -g oricoitora IIohor.irc   (in faraing, forsetry.          delnsoly.
boing an  fishing) na Per-etag     ftan     aorfre
inomeloyad fT. of labor force) -ioployd.are onualyd dfnd aspa-ona who               Caceneio
n  ble nod sillig to tab      obk  c   c    obo      gie   day  ronimed cot         cadiaree-  vra fear tho     eon) - 11 types ofrce     r   icr rdio broad,Itc.
of a job, and s,eeking w-k for    spunified   .imimo  pa-id noe  nedn      n              o  osaIpbi ot-tenadcippoaio;enlde                       nitese     recivr
ona';sy no    _o oparable betweec nou..trien doe to diff-ent defintion                   is -oneiie   and in years ebe. regiatretic.ocf radon sets wan to effet;
of onaplayed o-d -oec     of data, e.g. , euploynent office tsca  tinc:'t, sapi          data for recet years say oc ho     anpr.. ble since cost bootin     hlished
a-rcY., compulsory -noPIcyneot insurance.                                                lieeoning.
Joe- dietribotion - Percentage of privat     incm   (bath iv cah and bind)                 lesthnegh        asoa     ncue     omoace- orssadt silitary            `
-e-el-d by rinh-e ST, richest 207%, puor-t 20T., nod poorest hO0. of hones-              -ebinle..
holda.                                                                                 EIe-triity lOkh/yr -e     -pe) - Anna  connom pti-onfc industria.jceeril
public and private electrficity io   I iowteat inure Pc -pita, generally
Dliatribatios of 1ood ae  -hsie - Per..entagon of land cand by   .thnltieni 10%            base dcc production data, without allowance ice Ja..e. in grids hot ello--
nod pnor-t 107% of land ownrs.                                                          1bi  fee imports and enporta of electricity.
H..1th  nd N.triti-                                                N7:p ~~~~~~~~~Sesoint (hg/yrte   -ao) -,Psena lpita annua cusoption in bilag-as
geslth and nutrition                                              estimated f~~~~rom doneetin prdution plus ne  Icp-rt  of cewprint.
noaion ser ebyscini     - Population1 divided.by.onberiof prectintna
physician  qualified from a eia       cho    tu    eriylvl



ANI4FX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
cONOIC IIWDICATORS
GROS.S DC,ME&TIC PRODUCT.IN 1975                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
UE* iln.      S                          1969-75         1975
GDP at Market Prices            60o4.2     100.0                         3.3           12.7
Gross Domestic Investment a/     98.4       16.3                         1.9           34.1
Gross Domestic Saving !I       - 13.1     - 2.1                            .bJ
Current Account Balance        -147.6     - 24.4
isports of Goods, m   c/        122.9       20.3                        11.6 d/         7.0  /
imports of Goods, NFS ./        234.4       38.8                        22.6 d/       -10.0 A/
OUTPUT LABOR FORCE AND
PBODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added e
ust Mln. 
Agriculture                       230.7        38.2
Industry and Construction          99.8        16.5
Services                          273.7        45.3
Unallocated                         -           -
604.2       100.0
GOVERTrErT FINANCE
General Government
(Billion IUF)            of GDP
197           1976     1973-75
Current Receipts                    29.3          11.3      11.7
Current lrpenditur                 39.8                    15.6
Current  p:rplus                   -10.5         - 4.1     - 3.9
Capitol. EXjenditure                  1.6         o.6       0.4
Iltcrtur Ll AFuibtafce  I           11.6           4.5       3.8
MONEY, CREI)TT AND PRTCES
1971     197      19T3     1974      1975   126 h/
(Billions of Mali Francs)
Money  ar.d Quasi Money                   29.4     32.8     35.7      54.3    65.1     65.6
Credit to Government                      45.6     47.7     52.3     59.3     65.o     69.6
Credit to :conumy                         27.7     33.9     43.3     68.2    102.2   U10.8
of vhich
Credit to State Enterprises               17.7     20.9     28.4     47.8     68.7     76.6
Money and Quasi Money as S of GDP         19.8     21.4     29.5      25.9    24.0     24.5
GDP Def.ator (1969lO0)                  112.9    119.4    126.8     149.1   175.91      -
Annual PercenLage changes in:
Credit to Government                       6.4      4.4      9.8      13.3    11.0      5.8
Credit to Economy                         17.8     22.6     27.6      57.7    49.7      8.5
of which
Credit to State Enterprises               17.]     18.6     35.9      68.0    43.7     11.6
NOTE:All conversions to dollars in this table sre at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Tbtal labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their norzl occupation.         "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not applicable
a/ Staff estimates for 1973, 1974 and 1975.
T/ Trend grovwth rate is not significant; domestic savings vere negative in 1973, 1974 and 1975.
c/   lucludes estimates of unrecorded tride.
d/ At current prices.
Ae   Staff estiLstes.
!/  Lcluding cap'tal expenditurca financed out of foreign aid vhich do not figure in the budget.
Li   W'xtern.L o'icl.l budget grants.
h/ In September 1176.
May5, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   NERCRANISE ExPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-76)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976-'/                             US$ Mln.     S
(Billion M,.)
Merchandise Exports FOB 2/       22.7   23.3   30.8   30.8   45.2     Cotton                       19.2     33.0
Import of Goods FOB              32.0   47.3   62.1   56.3   65.0     Live Animals                 10.4     17.9
Net Imports NFS                  10.7   12.4   38.0   36.2   43.1     Groundnuts and Products       7.7     13.2
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.       39.6   56.3   86.1   75.4   90.0     Fish (dried and smoked)       1.3      2.2
All other Goods              19.6     33.7
Food                             11.14  29.2  148.9   18.9    .
(Cereals)                       ( 3.3) (16.4) (35.0) ( 6.0) (    )    Total Recorded Exports       58.2    100.0
Petroleum Products                4.1    4.9    7.6   lo.o    ..      Unrecorded Elports 3/        18.9
Other Merchandise                24.1   22.2   29.6   46.5
Besource Gap q/                 -14.2  -31.3  -62. 4 -48.7  *55.9     Total Merchandise Exports    79.5
Inv,estcnt Income Payments (net) -2.7   -3.9   -4.1   -9.3   -6.6     FTIERNtAL DEBT, DNFCENBR 31, 1973
Net Private Transfers 6/          5.7    3.9    4.8    8.4    8.5
Net Official Transfers           10.6   21.7   48.2   35.2   38.0                                           US$ Min.
Official Capital (net)            6.1   b4.)    .o    9.5   13.5
SDI Allocation                    1.3     -      -      -     -       Public Debt, Disbursed and Outstanding  282.9
Ulse of 1MB Oil Facility          -       -     2.2    0.5    2.3     Public Debt, Undisbursed                 25.1
Prror3 and Ommissions (net)      -2.8    3.8    c ,   -1.6   -2.2     Total Public Dcht Outstanding 4/        >6.0
Change in Reverses (increase -)   2.6   10.4  114.5   26.0   15.9                                 5/
Net .Nepative Reserves (end of                                        DiET3T FFRVICE RATIO FOR 1973
period) 7/                       37.0  -47.4  -61.9  -87.9 -103.8
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed             1.7
1B4D0/IDA LEUD1OS, OC3tOBE  31. 1970
Il;Hi)      ,DA
(Million UL:4 
Outstandingrw and Disbursed     _51 .5
lJndi rburced                   -         L44.
Outr.tanding, incl. Undisbursed  -        96.0
RATY OF EXCIA3;0E 8/
1971: US$1   = MMF 555.42
1972: US.l   = MB' 504.142
1973: US$1   = MF 415.210
19714:  Us,1:  = M3' 480.99
1975:  US$1  = MY 4.28.64
1976: Us$l = MY 477.96
1/ Staff Estimates.
'2/ Excluding unrecorded trade.
g/ Livestock, fish foodrrainls (cstimsated).
L/ Includes 1IS$?9.2 million principal in arrears;
excludes US$2.1 rillion interest in arrears.
5/ Patio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
6/ Includes vorkers' remittances.
7/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
P/ leriod averages.
4/  Including wirecorded trade.
b#sy 5, J977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at April 30, 1977
(US$ million)
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year    Borrower             Purpose        IDA       Undisbursed
Two Credits fully disbursed                            16.8            -
277-MLI    1972    Republic of Mali     Rice
Development      9.5 1/       1.8
321-MLI    1972    Republic of Mali     Telecommuni-
cations         3.6           1.6
383-MLI    1973    Republic of Mali     Highway Reha-
bilitation      17.8 2/       8.8
384-MLI    1973    Republic of Mali     Railway         6.7          0.0 5/
420-MLI    1973    Republic of Mali     Education       5.0           3.3
443-MLI    1973    Republic of Mali     Drought
Relief          2.5           0.0 3/
491-MLI    1974    Republic of Mali     Integrated
Rural
Development      8.0          4.1
538-MLI    1975    Republic of Mali     Livestock
Project        13.3          11.1
599-MLI    1976    Republic of Mali     Third
Highway         10.0          8.5
669-MLI 5/ 1976    Republic of Mali     Mali-Sud
Agricultural    15.5         15.5
Total                                      108.7          53.7
of which has been repaid                   0.1
Total now held by IDA*                                108.6
Total undisbursed                                                    53.7
*    Prior to exchange adjustment
1/   Including a Supplementary Credit of $2.6 million made in 1975.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of $8.3 million made in 1975.
3/   Balance of $31,192.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as at April 30, 1977
NIL
C.  Projects in Execution I/
Credit 277-MLI     Mopti Rice Development Project.   US$9.5 million Credit of
January 6, 1972 (as amended on April 11, 1975); Effective
Date June 26, 1972; closing Date May 31, 1978.
The project started in 1972 and is expected to be completed as
scheduled in mid-1978 with disbursements remaining within the credit total of
$9.5 million. At the end of 1976, civil works were virtually completed. The
total area to be developed has been reduced from 31,000 ha to 26,200 ha for
topographical reasons. From 1976/77 the project will focus on the improvement
of agricultural services which so far have not met expectations. After the
recent removal of a technical bottleneck, significant progress is expected
during the ongoing campaign.
Credit 321-MLI     Telecommunications Project.   US$3.6 million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date April 4, 1973; Closing
Date July 1, 1976 - Extended to June 30, 1979
Large cost overruns raised the cost of this project from US$4.3
million at appraisal to US$9.3 million recently estimated. Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) agreed to join in the financing of the project
to a maximum of US$2.2 million equivalent. However, since the Government was
unable to contribute the US$2.5 million required to close the gap in the
financing plan, the Government and the beneficiary, Office des Postes et
Telecomunications du Mali (OPTM), agreed that the project would be executed
in two phases. The first phase of work would consist of the original project
reduced by the Segou/Mopti section of the Bamako/Mopti microwave route and
by the two principal automatic exchanges of Mopti and Kayes; the excluded
works would be included in a second phase which could form part of a future
second telecommunications project. As approved by the Executive Directors on
July 21, 1976, the revised project will be financed from the original credit
of US$3.6 million, the CCCE loan of US$2.2 million and US$1.0 million from
OPTM's own resources. OPTM has changed the management of the telecommunica-
tions service. The Government is prepared to support the introduction of
measures for strengthening the organization and improving the efficiency
of telecommunications operations. The closing date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 383-MLI     Second Highway Project.   US$17.8 million Credit of May 23,
1973 (as amended on June 12, 1975); Effective Date
September 12, 1973; Closing Date July 19, 1977
The IDA-financed portion of the project consists of: ti) rehabili-
tation of the Faladie-Segou road; (ii) consultant's services for supervision
of road construction and additional technical assistance to the Public Works
Department; (iii) preinvestment studies of the Bamako-Bougouni road; (iv)
a study of the trucking industry; and (v) procurement of highway equipment.
Two other items of the project, rehabilitation of the Bamako-Bougouni road
and purchase of more highway equipment, were to be financed with USAID assis-
tance. However, bids for reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road (155
km) were so high that it was decided to drop that item, and USAID will only
finance purchase of maintenance equipment (for an amount of US$3.25 million).
Bids for reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou road (222 km) were also higher
than expected, due mainly to a delay of more than one year. The Board of
Directors approved in June 1975 a Supplementary Credit of US$8.3 million to
cover part of the overrun. In addition there was a dispute between the
contractor and the Government which was recently settled following extensive
discussions between the two parties. Other items of the project are either
completed or well under way.
Credit 384-MLI      Second Railway Project US$6.7 million Credit of May 23,
1973; Effective Date September 12, 1973; Closing Date
June 30, 1978
The project was expected to cost a total of about US$9.33 million,
with IDA participation of US$6.7 million and FAC-financing of US$1.8 million
equivalent, the rest being provided under Railway's own financing. Bidding
results disclosed a cost overrun of about US$2.6 million in the foreign ex-
change component of the project. The cost overrun was caused by (a) low
original estimates; (b) sharp increases in world market prices; and (c) the
fact that only single bids were received for some items. Additional bilateral
financing obtained for part of the freight cars proposed under the project
(Germany and France) and of the technical assistance (Canada) partly offset
the cost overrun. However, several items included in the project which had
to be deleted or significantly reduced will partially be financed under the
third railway project which was recently approved by the Executive Directors.
Presently all funds are committed and the execution of the project is satis-
factory.
Credit 420-MLI     First Education Project US$5.0 million Credit of July 11,
1973; Effective Date November 15, 1973; Closing Date
December 31, 1979
The project seeks to improve the quality of lower secondary school
programs and strengthen the country's key middle level training-institutions.
The project also supports government efforts to develop a more efficient



ANNEX II
Page 4
program of basic education. The Central School for Industry and Commerce is
expected to be completed by Fall 1977 and the construction of the lower
secondary school science and technology centers by mid 1978. Equipment
procurement is underway. Construction costs are higher than anticipated at
appraisal by some 60% and part of the lower secondary schools component will
be financed under the second project. Curriculum development work has been
largely completed, and the training of teachers in the new programs will begin
in July 1977. The Basic Education Study is proceeding satisfactorily, and
initial surveys and field research have been completed.
Credit 443-MLI     Drought Relief Project.   US$2.5 million Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effective Date June 30, 1976; Closing
Date December 30, 1977
The Credit is almost totally disbursed and 11 of the 25 sub-projects
have been completed, basically as conceived. Cost overruns, mostly due to the
increase in price of basic materials and equipment, and the impact of the
dollar devaluation over the project period have made it impossible to finance
the entirety of the remaining 14 sub-projects with the Credit proceeds.
Government and IDA are discussing the matter and it is expected that other
donors will finance the bulk of the US$300,000 needed.
Credit 491-MLI      Integrated Rural Development Project.  US$8.0 million
Credit of July 1, 1974; Effective Date December 9, 1974;
Closing Date September 30, 1978
Most of the project components which had been delayed at the start
are now under way, specifically: livestock, health and rural tracks. The
project is making satisfactory progress in the primary marketing of ground-
nuts. The project, however, has obtained less than satisfactory results in
increasing the adoption rates of improved cultivation methods by farmers.
Improvement of OACV extension services would be the prime objective of a
second project presently being requested by Government. It would also be
an opportunity to change OACV statutes to give it greater financial autonomy
and operational flexibility.
Credit 538-MLI     Livestock Project.   US$13.3 million Credit of April 11,
1975; Effective Date July 24, 1975; Closing Date
December 31, 1979
After initial delays caused by the project's complexity and the
remoteness of the area, project implementation is now proceeding satisfac-
torily. ODEM is now efficiently executing the second veterinary vaccination
campaign under the project and has reached an advanced stage of preparation
for the Seno Mango grazing scheme (a prerequisite under the Credit Agreement



ANNEX II
Page 5
for undertaking the well construction program), for pond construction, and
for setting up the Mopti trial station. Accordingly, a new abattoir site
has been allocted to ODEM, and detailed preparation is being resumed. Con-
struction of the Project headquarters is under way; housing construction is
expected to start soon. Training of lower and medium level project staff is
under way, and individual training programs of senior Malian project staff is
being prepared. A project monitoring system will be prepared with the help of
a consultant.
Credit 599-MLI     Third Highway Project.   US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9. 1976; Effective Date March 10, 1976;
Closing Date June 30, 1979.
The project consists of (a) construction of 1,200 km feeder roads
by force account; (b) elimination of backlog maintenance of about 944 km of
paved roads by force account; (c) procurement of equipment for the Public
Works Training Center and two Subdivisions; and (d) technical assistance for
implementing maintenance programs, operating the above Training Center and
preparing a country-wide transport plan. The Credit became effective on
March 10, 1976. About 203 km of feeder roads, for which the project provides
retroactive financing, were constructed in 1975. The first stage of the
maintenance program for paved roads, consisting of training the newly formed
brigade with the assistance of consultants, started in April. The Govern-
ment has started procuring the equipment financed under the project, and
is receiving the first deliveries. It has also called for proposals from
several foreign consulting firms to carry out the transport plan together
with Malian professionals.
Credit 669-MLI     Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.   US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Closing Date December 31, 1981.
The project consists of expanding cotton, kenaf, maize and rice
production mainly through the intensification of improved cultivation meth-
ods; providing project farmers with technical advice, seed multiplication
facilities applied research and credit; improving animal husbandry of cotton
farmers; expanding cotton processing facilities, improvement of kenaf set-
tling ponds, construction of a rice mill, provision of storage for inputs
procurement of vehicles for CMDT and improvement of agricultural tracks;
undertaking studies for the future development of the areas freed from on-
chocerciasis; improving the rural health services in the area; and training
of CMDT staff, and of the rural population through young farmers and black-
smith's training and a functional literacy program. The Credit is expected
to become effective on June 30, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 9 months;
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Education Project
Unit;
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1976; date of
the first Bank mission to consider the project: March 1976;
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1976;
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 21, 1977; and
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 31, 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Credit Conditions
(a)  The Government decided to accord the instructors at the junior
agricultural and veterinary center the same benefits and advantages
which are already received by MEN's staff of the same grade (para.
37 (b)).
(b) review with IDA the content and costs of new curricula to be
developed under the rural lower secondary schools pilot programs
(para 37 (a));
(c) approximately two-thirds of the places in full-time courses will
be reserved for employed or potential managers sponsored by their
employers (para., 37 (c));
(d) Government will conduct by September 1, 1978, a study of the
training requirements of employers. The study will be brought
up to date every two years, will evaluate on-going programs,
and will contain recommendations to the Institute's advisory
committee (para. 37(c));



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) an advisory committee responsible for liaison, composed of
representatives of the agencies and services concerned
with the project, will be established not later than July 1,
1977 (para. 37 (f)); and
(f) Evaluation: Government will carry out regular evaluation
of the lower secondary science and technology programs, basic
education programs and functional literacy programs to be
financed under the project (para. 37 (a), (b), (d) and (e).
Conditions of disbursement are as follows:
(a) for construction of the agricultural and livestock training
centers, the creation of an advisory committee, with terms
of reference and membership acceptable to IDA, to be chaired
by the Minister of Rural Development or his representative,
to advise the centers on admissions, programs and the
placement of trainees (para. 37 (b);
(b) for construction of the junior agricultural technician
training center (Samanko), assurance of adequate technical
assistance by a competent agency (para. 37 (b)).
(c)  for financing the development of basic education programs,
an agreement between the Government and IDA on their design
and estimated costs (para 37. (e)).



12'   M    A     U    R'   I ,T     A    N    I    A                          j
t       ~/      \        (    N      Nioro                                            / 
-\          /        \ j    Y ion 
'4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
REPUBLIC OF MALI
____                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTEGRATED  RURAL
Xj  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
...... .....                    61                   y ..... .           (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) SECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER(91
K-6.1.O       0                   SUJB-SECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE CENTERC24)
12'          G      >    s     x    x     $        C      X                     X                          O            ;   SUB-SECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER
0           ~~~~~ALSO SECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER
K                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OTHER TOWNS12
(/  j c,-SECTOR BOUNDARIES   12
'2ANrSH  I                  JN.        i---N INTERNATIONAL                                                               BOUNDARIES
SAIHARA'-   i   .   ALGERIA   )                         j     boounoft                                                -- RIVERS
|y-f. 1 N8AURllAN          S4o)'o'                             EXTENSIONS
MAURITANIA  i  REULC.... oIr,B0:-----:::16
I OF                                                                         r I                                  1969
A          LI       N I G E R             /                                                                                96
0     m       LTA,.     _   .,? _ _                   x                         I                                       '..'."'.H 1971
-p--. ~~~~~~~~~  NIGERIA                       )~~~~~~~~~~L                                                  \ -~1\--\XL1974
-.         A~~~~~o '4     IS 010                                                                                    TO     00         200
r _  o  e        i           1    ,/,, ,,,, ,, ,  ,,,, {,,,       \ D IVOR Y     O A S T                                     KILOMEERS C.
i ERON                          0         c    e I0I                                              *'/4; KILO               ER; SlR;
o-  0  eon  10'  '.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42



