Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19453
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
June 14, 1999
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only-in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units - Baht (B)
1993      US$1.00   =   B25.3
1994      US$1.00   =   B25.1
1995      US$1.00   =   B24.9
1996      US$1.00   =   B25.3
1997      US$1.00   =   B31.4
1998      US$1.00   =   B41.4
Units and Measures
bbl    -  Barrel                       Km        -  kilometer
bcf    -  billion cubic feet           Lb        -  pound
bpd    -  barrel per day               Mcf       -  thousand cubic feet
btu    -  British Thermal unit         Mmbtu   -  million British Thermal unit
GWh  -  Gigawalt hour                  Mmscfd  -  million standard cubic feet per day
kcal   -  Kilocalorie                  MW        -  megawatt
kWh   -  kilowatt hour                 Tcf       -  trillion cubic feet
koe    -  kilogram oil equivalent      Toe       -  ton of oil equivalent
Tonne    -  metric ton (=2205 lb)
PTT's Fiscal Year
Up to 1995        October 1 to September 30
From 1996         January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB      Asian Development Bank            MOF       Ministry of Finance
CNG      Compressed Natural Gas            MOI      Ministry of Industry
CO       Carbon monoxide                   NEA      National Energy Administration
CO2      Carbon dioxide                    NEB      National Environmental Board
DMR    Department of Mineral Resources     NEPC    National Energy Policy Committee
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment   NEPO    National Energy Policy Office
EIB     European Investment Bank           NESDB   National Economics and Social
Development Board
ECCT    Energy Conservation Center of      PTT       Petroleum Authority of Thailand
Thailand
EGAT   Electricity Generating Authority of  PTTEP   PTT Exploration and Production Co. ILtd
Thailand
IPO      Initial Public Offering           RRC       Rayong Refining Company
JDA      Joint Development Area            QSHE    Quality, Safety, Health, and Environment
JEXIM   Export-Import Bank of Japan        SCADA   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
LNG      Liquefied Natural Gas             SET       Stock Exchange of Thailand
LPG      Liquefied Petroleum Gas           SPRC      Star Petroleum Refming Company
MIS      Management Information System     TPA       Third Party Access
TQM      Total Quality Management
Regional Vice President      Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director             J. Shivakumar, EACTF
Sector Manager               Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager                : Mohammad Farhandi, EASEG



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
Table of Contents
Preface...............................................................................................................................................i
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                                                                  iii
Part I:  Implementation Assessment ..........................................................1
A.  Introduction - Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives ............................................................2
C.  Major Factor Affecting the Project ..........................................................4
D.  Project Sustainability ..........................................................5
E.  Bank Performance .........................................................6
F.  Borrower Performance .........................................................7
G.  Assessment of Outcome .........................................................8
H. Future Operations .......................................................... 8
I.   Lessons Learned .........................................................9
Part H: Statistical Annex ......................................................... I 
Table  1: Summary of Assessment ......................................................... 11
Table 2: Related Bank Operations .........................................................                                              12
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                                    12
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................................... 13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................................                             13
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation .................................................... 14
Table 7: Studies included  in Project .........................................................                                         14
Table 8A: Project Costs ......................................................... 15
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................................................                                                   16
Table 9: Economic Analysis (ICR) Economic Rate of Return - 1977 dollars ......................... 16
Table 9A: Economic Analysis Power Cost &  Net Back Value - Gas ....................                                      .................. 18
Table 9B: Economic Analysis Power Cost and Net Back Value - Coal ................................... 19
Table 9C: Economic Analysis: Unit Cost of Bongkot and Unocal Gas ................................... 20
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................... 21
Table  11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements ...................................................... 23
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (as of March  1999) .................................................... 23
Table  13: Bank Resources - Missions ......................................................... 23
Table  14: Statement of Income .........................................................                                                24
Table  15: PTT's Balance Sheet ......................................................... 25
Table  16: PTT's and Actual Financial Performance .........................................................     24
Table  17: Thailand's Actual and Projected Energy Consumption ........................................... 26
Table  18: Projected  Statement of Income .........................................................                                     27
Table  19: Projected Cash Flow .........................................................                                                28
Table 20: Actual and Projected Supply of Gas from the Gulf of Thailand
and Flow  of Gas through the Transmission  System  - mmscfd ................                                 ................ 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendixes
A. Mission's Aide Memoire .33
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR .36
Maps
IBRD 25766
IBRD 25767



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Gas
Transmission Project in the Kingdom of Thailand for which Loan 3799-TH in the amount
of US$155 million equivalent was approved on September 22, 1994 and made effective
on January 31, 1995.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, one year later than the original
Closing Date of December 31, 1997. Final disbursement took place on March 5, 1999.
Given the lower than anticipated cost of the offshore pipelaying contract as well as other
cost savings, upon the request of the Borrower, US$40 million of the loan was cancelled
in October 1995. Subsequently, a further US$2.577 million was cancelled in July 25,
1997. Co-financing was provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Export-
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
The ICR was prepared by Farrokh Najmabadi (Consultant) of the Energy and
Mining Sector Development Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Region and reviewed by
Mohammad Farhandi, Principal Energy Specialist and Jayasankar Shivakumar, Country
Director and cleared by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector Manager, Energy and Mining Sector
Development Unit.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in April
1999. It is based on material in the project files and information gathered during the ICR
mission from the Borrower and other sources. The mission's Aide Memoire and the
Borrower's contribution to the ICR are attached to this report as appendices A and B,
respectively.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.   The Bank has had a long and cooperative relationship with the Government of
Thailand and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) in developing the energy sector.
The Second Gas Transmission Project was the fifth in a series of Bank loans to PTT,
which aimed at not only increasing the supply of a more environmentally acceptable fuel
to the Thai economy, but also to extend the policy reforms which were designed to
enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of the sector.
Project Objectives
ii.   The main objectives of the project were to achieve greater efficiency in sector
operations and increase the utilization of domestic natural gas resources through: a)
moving PTT towards a fully commercial operation under a new organization; b)
strengthening its institutional capacity to apply safety and environmental standards as
well as to carry out project analysis and investment programming; and c) constructing a
pipeline to transport domestic gas which the Fuel Option Study had identified as the
least-cost option to meet the country's growing power generation requirements.
iii.   The project comprised the construction of an offshore 36-inch diameter, 425
kilometer gas transmission pipeline, extending from the existing platform at the Erawan
field (located in the Gulf of Thailand) to onshore receiving facilities at Rayong and,
thence, an onshore 28-inch diameter, 110 kilometer pipeline that extends from Rayong to
the Block Valve No. 6, near EGAT's power plant at Bang Pakong (IBRD Map No.
25766). The technical assistance component included a study on corporate strategies and
financing plan for PTT's corporatization, as well as a training program for PTT staff in
project analysis and investment programming and in applying safety and environmental
standards.
iv.  The project's objectives were realistic and in line with Thailand's priorities in
making increasing supplies of a domestically produced energy resource available to a fast
growing economy, as well as with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
objectives of removing infrastructural bottlenecks to growth in the energy sector,
focussing on an environmentally sound energy option and enhancing the further opening
of the energy supply sector to private participation and investment, were practical and
relevant to the needs of the country. These objectives still remain valid in the current
post-crisis environment. The most recent CAS (Report No. 1 8002-TH) calls for, inter
alia, the strengthening of the country's infrastructure base, notably in energy, and



- iv -
reorganizing the public productive sector for greater efficiency, especially through
privatization and private-participation.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.   The project's objectives were substantially achieved. The construction of the
offshore 36-inch diameter, 425-kilometer gas transmission pipeline was completed on
schedule in March 1996. The construction of the onshore 28-inch diameter, 1 10-
kilometer pipeline was, however, delayed by nearly one year due to the contractor's
inexperience in laying pipe in flooded and waterlogged terrain. Although the start of
regular operation was delayed by nearly 6 months to October 1996, gas deliveries picked
up quickly with cumulative quantities until the end of 1998 (419 bcf) exceeding those
anticipated at appraisal of 402.5 bcf. Much like the implementation of previous projects
by PTT, the project management team proved competent and efficient. They were ably
assisted by an engineering and construction management consultant. There was a high
level of ownership by the Government and PTT. The cofinanciers were generally very
cooperative and, along with PTT, provided the funds on a timely basis.
vi.   The project was implemented at a cost of US$482.3 million, some 28.5%/c, below
the cost estimated at appraisal. It has become operational at a time when the demand for
gas is expected to remain buoyant and as more gas is becoming available from the Gulf
of Thailand. As a result, the pipeline has been assured of high capacity utilization
throughout the rest of its economic life. Given the underrun in project cost and the
expectations of full capacity utilization in the coming years, the economic rate of return is
reestimated at around 59% which is considerably higher than that indicated in the Staff
Appraisal Report.
vii.   As for the institutional objectives, the Corporatization/Privatization study was
finally completed by consultants in early 1998 (with considerable delay) and submitted to
PTT. After careful consideration, the PTT Board decided in 1998 to pursue the
privatization objective through corporatizing PTT in the form of an Integrated Operating
Holding Company and applying for an initial public offering (IPO) issue to be placed on
the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). This new corporate structure would keep the Oil,
Gas and International Business as business units but envisages that the PTT's gas
transmission pipeline operation would be spun off into a fully owned subsidiary in order
to provide for Third Party Access (TPA) under the Government Gas Reform Policy.
viii. In relation to environmental objectives, the project has not only made a larger
quantity of a more environmentally acceptable fuel available to the Thai economy, the
recommendations of the study on Safety Engineering and Environmental Standards for
the PTT Operations (carried out under the previous loan No. 3508-TH) have been
implemented. PTT has put in place organizational units whose job it is to monitor
compliance with quality safety, health and environmental (QSHE) standards.
ix.   Although PTT's profitability has fallen somewhat short of what was expected at
appraisal, the annual net profit has remained robust except for 1997 during which a large
one-time foreign exchange loss (B 7.25 billion) was written off. During 1998, PI1T
diluted its shareholding in PTTEP by selling about 6% of its holding for B5.992 billion.



- v -
In recent years, PTT' s financial results have been materially affected by the softness of
the petroleum and petrochemical products markets. Despite the market condition which
were exacerbated following the financial crisis in Thailand and the neighboring countries,
PTT managed to adhere to the covenanted financial ratios throughout the period except
for the debt to equity ratio which went fractionally above 70:30 in 1997.
Assessment of Outcome
x.    Taking advantage of a highly competitive environment in pipeline construction
industry, PTT completed the project with considerable underruns. Technically, the
pipeline has met all performance targets and the capacity has recently been increased to
around 1000 mmscfd with the installation of a new compressor station. More
importantly, the planned institutional development of PTT is both significant and
momentous. The plan to introduce third party access to PTT's gas transmission pipeline
operation is likely to encourage the much desired competition in the gas industry by
enabling the independent power producers (IPPs) and the industrial sector to enter into
direct contractual relationships with the gas producers.
xi.   Current projections by PTT indicate that after the crisis of 1997 it will come back
on its long-term performance trend with net profit anticipated to reach B 17.1 billion by
2004. These projections, however, also indicate that the cash flows for 1999 and 2000
are extremely tight. PTT, therefore, has to substantially increase its borrowing, both at
home and overseas, and to proceed with dilution of its shares in the affiliated companies
and its IPO in order to raise cash to meet its obligations. Despite the slowdown in the
rate of growth of demand for electricity in recent years and, hence, for gas, the increased
supply of gas from the Gulf of Thailand and the pick-up in demand for electricity in later
years assure the pipeline of full capacity utilization throughout its economic life. PTT's
business unit for natural gas has a long experience in operating pipelines and associated
plants such as the gas separation plant at Rayong and the compressor stations. In
addition to its technical competence, the gas business unit has a record of running the gas
transmission system efficiently and generating the bulk of PTT's net profit. Given the
substantial achievement of the physical and institutional development objectives, the high
ERR and the assured sustainability of the project, the outcome is considered as
satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xii. Both the Bank and the Borrower performed satisfactorily. The Bank ensured the
high quality of the project at entry through its thorough preparation and appraisal work
and its painstaking attention to the gas reserves certification. It used the lessons of the
previous projects in the design of the implementation program with notable results. In
addition to pursuing the environmental issues and ensuring that the recommendations of
the study on Environmental Standards and Regulations for Hydrocarbon Exploration and
Exploitation in the Gulf of Thailand would be put into practice, the Bank had a special
concern with the Corporatization/Privatization study and its implementation.
xiii. The Borrower exhibited a high degree of commitment to and ownership of the
project. It engaged competent engineering and construction management consultants and



- vi -
made considerable efforts to complete the project on time. The Borrower's periormance
in relation to safety and environmental issues is commendable. But the most significant
action taken by PTT was its expeditious decision on corporatization/privatization once
the report was completed. This development in the gas business is the harbinger of many
changes that will enhance PTT's competitiveness and strength.
xiv. Given the depth of the recent financial crisis and PTT's situation at this critical
juncture, the Bank should remain in close touch with Thailand's oil and gas sector.
While the decision by the Government to allow private participation and free coimpetition
in the gas business through contestability should be welcome, the management of PTT is
likely to face many challenges in the near future and the Bank should, therefore, stand
ready to assist the Government of Thailand and PTT with its advice and counsel. The
Bank may also offer its assistance in resolving the financial restructuring issues
connected with PTT's refining subsidiaries that are proving to be enormous drains on
PTT's cash flow. In addition the Bank should stand prepared to encourage and assist
further regional energy development projects such as JDA.
xv.  The major lessons of this project are that: a) the Borrowers will be well served to
adhere to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines even if the financing of some contracts is
provided through non-Bank funds and it is, therefore, important that before arriving at a
list of qualified contractors that a more thorough background and track record check is
made including the obtaining of references from as many sources and previous patrons as
possible; b) the quality of supervision and the firmness with which the compliance with
covenants are pursued are important to the success of the project. It was the Bank's
unrelenting persistence that brought a delayed Corporatization/Privatization study to
completion, a document that formed the basis for a far reaching organizational and
strategic reform of PTT; and c) once studies are completed and a course of action in
respect of policy reforms is agreed upon with the Borrower, and provided that the
Borrower demonstrates its commitment and ownership, the pace of reforms should, to a
large extent, be left to the Borrower to exercise its judgement, because such incremental,
sequential and steady approaches have a better chance of putting in place long lasting
reforms.



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
Part I - Implementation Assessment
A.  Introduction - Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Since the late 1 970s, the Bank and the Government of Thailand (GOT) have had a
close and productive cooperation in an effort to develop indigenous energy resources
such as oil, gas, hydropower and lignite, to enhance the financial performance and
operational efficiency of the public sector energy entities, and to mitigate the
environmental impact of the energy supply process. An important milestone was reached
in 1993 with the completion of the Fuel Option Study (Report 1 1948-TH) which made a
thorough assessment and identified the various fuel options for Thailand to meet its
energy requirements. Building on the recommendations of the Fuel Option Study, the
Second Gas Transmission Project constituted an important investment in increasing the
supply of a more environmentally acceptable fuel to the Thai economy.
2.    The Second Gas Transmission Project was the fifth in a series of Bank loans to
the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT). Its objectives were to achieve greater
efficiency in sector operations and to increase the utilization of domestic natural gas
resources through: a) moving PTT towards a fully commercial operation under a new
organization; b) strengthening its institutional capacity to apply safety and environmental
standards as well as to carry out project analysis and investment programming; and c)
constructing a pipeline to transport domestic gas which the Fuel Option Study had
identified as the least-cost option to meet the country's growing power generation
requirements. Coming on the heel of many previous projects which supported the energy
sector through considerable reforms including the liberalization of petroleum product
prices, commercialization of transactions of parastatals arnong themselves (e.g.
commercially-based purchase/sale agreements between PTT and EGAT) and approval of
refinery construction by the private sector, this project was fully consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The objectives of removing infrastructural
bottlenecks to growth in the energy sector, focussing on an environmentally sound energy
option and enhancing the further opening of the energy supply sector to private
participation and investment, were sensible policies and relevant to the needs of the
country. These still remain key sector objectives in the current post-crisis environment.
The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 1 8002-TH) calls for, inter alia,
the strengthening of the country's infrastructure base, notably in energy, and reorganizing
the public productive sector for greater efficiency, especially through privatization and
private-participation.
3.    The project comprised the construction of an offshore 36-inch diameter, 425
kilometer gas transmission pipeline, extending from the existing platform at the Erawan
field (located in the Gulf of Thailand) to onshore receiving facilities at Rayong and,



-2 -
thence, an onshore 28-inch diarneter, 110 kilometer pipeline that extends from Rayong to
the Block Valve No. 6, near EGAT's power plant at Bang Pakong (IBRD Map No.
25766). The project included all the related facilities for the operation of the pipelines
and modification/expansion of the existing supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) system as well as the pipeline telecommunication network. The technical
assistance component included a study on corporate strategies and financing plEn for
PTT's corporatization, as well as a training program for PTT staff in project analysis and
investment programming and in applying safety and environmental standards. PTT's
previous experience with the construction of similar pipelines considerably reduced the
risk of implementation, especially since engineering consultancy and construction
management services had been entrusted to an internationally well-known and highly
experienced entity.
4.    The most serious risk envisaged at the time of project preparation, namely the
availability of sufficient gas resources, had been considerably mitigated by carrying out
detailed assessments of Erawan and Bongkot fields prior to the approval of the project in
August 1994. Furthernore, it was thought that the adherence by PTT and the gas
producers to the industry norms existing in the international market for the sale and
purchase of gas substantially mitigated the potential disputes in various contractual
arrangements. In any case, the Bank insisted on receiving a copy of an executed gas
sale/purchase agreement between PTT and EGAT for the new gas reserves prior to
submitting the loan for Board approval.
B.  Achievement of Objectives
5.    The project's objectives were substantially achieved. The construction of the
offshore 36-inch diameter, 425-kilometer gas transmission pipeline was completed on
schedule in March 1996. The construction of the onshore 28-inch diameter, 110-
kilometer pipeline was, however, delayed by nearly one year due to the contractor's
inexperience in laying pipe in flooded and waterlogged terrain. The construction of the
SCADA system and the compressor station was also delayed by about one year with
completion achieved in October 1996 and February 1997, respectively (Table 5 -- Key
Indicators for Project Implementation). Although the start of regular operation was
delayed by nearly 6 months to October 1996, gas deliveries picked up quickly with
cumulative quantities (419 bcf until the end of 1998) exceeding those anticipated at
appraisal of 402.5 bcf. (Table 6 - Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation).
With the further development of the Bongkot and Erawan fields and the addition of new
gas supplies form the Tantawan/Benchamas Complex and the Pailin field, the outlook for
gas availability from the Gulf of Thailand has become increasingly optimistic to such an
extent that a new compressor station has been installed in 1998 on the 36-inch pipeline,
thereby increasing pipeline capacity from 600 mmscfd to 1000 mmscfd. As a result the
36-inch pipeline gas throughput is expected to exceed 700 mmscfd during 1999 (Table
20).
6.    The project was implemented at a cost of US$482.3 million, some 28.5% below
the cost estimated at appraisal (Table 8A). It has become operational at a time when the
demand for gas is expected to remain buoyant and as more gas is becoming available
from the Gulf of Thailand. As a result, the pipeline has been assured of high capacity



- 3 -
utilization throughout the rest of its economic life. Given the underrun in project cost and
the expectations of full capacity utilization in the coming years, the economic rate of
return is reestimated at 58.9% which is considerably higher than that indicated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (Table 9).
7.    The internal financial rate of return (FRR) was not calculated at appraisal because
the selling price of gas delivered to EGAT (more than 85% of PTT's gas sales) is subject
to a formula that permits PTT to recover all its costs including a reasonable internal rate
of return of around 15% on its investments in the gas transmission facilities. Moreover,
PTT secures higher prices on its sales to industry. Since the pricing mechanism assures
PTT of an acceptable rate of return, the ICR mission did not consider it necessary to
attempt an FRR reestimation.
8.    The construction of the pipelines under this and the previous Bank loan (3508-
TH) provided the incentive to the private sector field operators in the Gulf of Thailand to
invest in the further development of the gas fields, thus making increased quantities of a
more environmentally acceptable fuel available to the Thai economy. In relation to the
other environmental objectives, the recommendations of the study on Safety Engineering
and Environmental Standards for the PTT Operations (carried out under the previous loan
3508-TH) have been implemented. PTT has put in place organizational units whose job it
is to monitor compliance with quality, safety, health and environmental (QSHE)
standards. These QSHE division are formed at all business units and subsidiaries and the
whole activity is supervised at the corporate level by the PTT Corporate Council on Total
Quality Management (TQM) and Quality, Safety, Health and Environmental Standards.
The Council is the body that sets targets for various parts of the organization so that
compliance with relevant standards are achieved throughout the PTT family in as short a
time as possible. Action plans and monitoring arrangements envisaged under the
Environmental Impact Assessment attempted to minimize harmful impacts during
construction and monitoring reports confirmed that there were no significant adverse
impacts. Environmental standards and regulations for oil and gas exploration and
production have been issued to the oil and gas field operators, especially those active in
the Gulf of Thailand, and regular monitoring and reporting procedures assure their
adherence to these standards and regulations.
9.    As for the institutional objectives, the Corporatization/Privatization study was
finally completed by consultants in early 1998 (with considerable delay) and submitted to
PTT. After careful consideration, the PTT Board decided in 1998 to pursue the
privatization objective through corporatizing PTT in the form of an Integrated Operating
Holding Company and applying for an initial public offering (IPO) issue to be placed on
the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). This new corporate structure would keep the Oil,
Gas and International Businesses as business units but envisages that the PTT's gas
transmission pipeline operation would be spun off into a fully owned subsidiary in order
to provide for Third Party Access (TPA) under the Government Gas Reform Policy. PTT
submitted its plan to the Ministry of Industry (MOI) in February 1999 and is awaiting
their approval. The plan has then to receive the approval of the National Energy Policy
Council (NEPC) before PTT can proceed with the Corporatization and the filing for IPO
with SET. PTT remains a well managed public sector energy entity and the



-4 -
Corporatization/Privatization move is bound to inject new elements for enhanced
competitiveness in its operations.
10.   Over the years PTT's accounts have become increasingly more transparent and
the Bank's insistence on receiving a long form report prepared by an independent,
internationally-known auditing firm on PTT's accounts has helped this process. In the
meantime, after the reorganization of PTT in 1996 into business units and subsidiaries
(with the head office in the form of a holding company), the accounts of the three main
business units namely PTT Gas, PTT Oil and PTT International have been separated,
with separate and distinct income statements, balance sheets and cash flow prepared for
each business unit. PTT has so far submitted the outside auditors' long form up to 1996
with considerable delay.
11.   Although PTT's profitability has fallen somewhat short of what was expected at
appraisal, the annual net profit has remained robust except for 1997 during which a large
one-time foreign exchange loss (B 7.25 billion) was written off (Table 14). During 1998,
PTT diluted its shareholding in PTTEP by selling about 6% of its holding for B5.992
billion. This helped increase the net profit for year 1998 to B 11.9 billion. In recent
years, PTT's financial results have been materially affected by the softness of the
petroleum and petrochemical products markets. As a result, PTT has had to extend long
term credits to its subsidiary and affiliated companies, notably the refining joint ventures.
Despite the market condition which were exacerbated following the financial crisis in
Thailand and the neighboring countries, PTT managed to adhere to the covenanted
financial ratios throughout the period except for the debt to equity ratio which went
fractionally above 2.33 in 1997 (Table 16).
C. Major Factor Affecting the Project
12.   Much like the implementation of previous projects by PTT, the project
management team proved competent and efficient. They were ably assisted by a
qualified engineering and construction management consultant which was appointed to
carry out the basic design, environmental impact study, detailed engineering, preparation
of technical specifications and bid documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations,
shipment inspection, expediting and supervision during construction including testing and
comnmissioning. Advance procurement for this consultancy had been agreed to by the
Bank. There was a high level of ownership by the Government and PTT. The
cofinanciers were generally very cooperative and, along with PTT, provided the funds on
a timely basis. Though natural calamities, such as the earthquakes in California in 1994
and Kobe in 1995 could have seriously affected the supply of line pipe and major
equipment, the main delay in the construction of the onshore pipeline was caused by
extensive flooding along the route which occurred during the period of August to
November 1995, resulting from the biggest rainfall in 100 years. The problems wvas
compounded by the inexperience of the pipeline contractor to lay pipe in flooded terrain
as well as the difficulties in purchasing the right-of-way because of landowner lock-outs.
13.   The brisk growth of demand for gas in the Thai economy in recent years and the
anticipated growth in the future is buttressed by the increased availability of gas s,upplies
from the fields located in the Gulf of Thailand and other supplies, for the time being,



from Myanmar (Yadana and Yetagun). This increasing demand has resulted in the early
construction of a compressor station on the 36" pipeline that has increased its capacity to
around 1000 mmscfd. The existence of equitable contractual agreements for the purchase
of gas from the field operation and a price formula for the sale of gas to EGAT which is
partially indexed to oil prices provides the support for the increased penetration of gas in
Thailand's energy markets.
D. Project Sustainability
14. Current projections by PTT indicate that after the shock of 1997, it will come back
on its long-term performance trend with net profit anticipated to reach B 17.1 billion by
2004 (Table 18). These projections, however, also indicate that the cash flows for 1999
and 2000 are extremely tight and PTT, therefore, has to substantially increase its
borrowing, both at home and overseas, and to proceed with dilution of its shares in the
affiliated companies and its IPO in order to raise cash to meet its obligations. The
assumptions for this projection as well as the cash flow tables are shown in Table 19. It
should be noted that PTT has allowed for a dividend provision of 35% of net profit in
1998 and 1999 and proposes to pay a dividend of 30% in the year 2000 and, thereafter to
the Treasury. PTT has already marshaled resources to meet its cash shortage in 1999 by
making an offshore borrowing of US$100 million and floating a five-year bond for the
equivalent of US$248.97 million in the Japanese market. In addition, it has floated a
bond offering of B5200 million for the Yadana pipeline in the domestic financial market
and has already refinanced a domestic bond issue in the amount of B6821 million. Thus,
it appears that the 1999 cash requirements have already been provided for, though little
cash (B480 million) is anticipated to be carried over to the year 2000. In that year PTT
has to intensify its efforts to dilute its shares in the affiliated and subsidiary companies
and to raise cash through its own privatization.
15. As pointed out above, the increased supply of gas from the Gulf of Thailand
assures the pipeline of full capacity utilization throughout its economic life. PTT's
business unit for natural gas has a long experience in operating pipelines and associated
plants such as the gas separation plant at Rayong and the compressor stations. In addition
to its technical competence the gas business unit has a record of running the gas
transmission system efficiently and generating the bulk of PTT's net profit (in excess of
70%). With the expansion of the onshore line from Bang Pakong compressor station to
Wang Noi power plant and the extension of the Yadana-Ratchburi gas pipeline to Wang
Noi, Thailand's economy will be supported by an interconnected transmission system
that would bring added confidence to the energy supply picture and its future
development. The availability of Myanmar gas, along with a slowdown in the rate of
growth in demand for electricity would mean a diminution of demand for gas from the
Gulf of Thailand for a few years (Table 20). But the pickup of electricity demand in the
medium term would provide a ready market for the Gulf gas. Later in the next decade,
the projected gas supply from the Joint Development Area (JDA) between Thailand and
Malaysia will provide additional gas deliveries, thus extending the economic life of the
offshore pipelines. In view of the above, the sustainability of this project over the
medium and longer-term appears to be assured.



-6 -
E.  Bank Performance
16.   This project was implemented against the backdrop of an amicable and trusting
relationship between the Bank and PTT engendered by many years of close cooperation
in carrying out a series of successful projects. As discussed earlier, the project was in
line with the country's priorities and the Bank's country strategy and sector policy. The
Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the project is considered
highly satisfactory. Applying the lessons of the past projects and given the high
complexity of the region's geology, the Bank insisted on receiving certification of the gas
reserves by reputable consultants before proceeding with the project. To ensure project
sustainability through the maintenance of stakeholder interest, the Bank kept a close eye
on the negotiations among the interested parties so that equitable agreements be reached
by PTT when amending the Bongkot and Unocal Gas Sales Agreements or the Gas
Sale/Purchase Agreement with EGAT.
17.   Building on the experience with the previous projects and that of the PTT's
project management team, the number of contracts was kept to a minimum. PTT's
familiarity with the Bank's procurement guidelines resulted in timely bid evaluations
which received expeditious review by the Bank staff prior to contract award. A
particularly complex problem-liability for default-that arose with the selection of the
lowest bidder for the offshore pipelaying contract was resolved through a realistic
assessment of the risks involved, keeping in view the track record of the relevant bidders
and nature of the pipelaying operation.
18.   Following on its past efforts to steer the Thai offshore oil and gas industry
towards a greater environmental consciousness, the Bank pursued its mission with vigor
ensuring that the recommendations of the study on Environmental Standards and
Regulations for Hydrocarbon Exploration and Exploitations in the Gulf of Thailand
would be put into practice and adhered to. As for the PTT itself, the Bank was concerned
about the lack of well-defined safety engineering standards and environmental
regulations which had become subject of a study to be carried out during the
implementation of the Bongkot Gas Transmission Project (Loan 3508-TH). These efforts
have been rewarded as the study's recommendations have been acted upon by PTT and
internalized.
19.   The Bank had a special concern with the Corporatization/Privatization study and
was closely involved in reviewing its terms of reference. While the study was completed
with considerable delay, the Bank continued to encourage PTT for an early decision on
the recommendations of the study with the result that, once the issues had been clarified,
PTT quickly decided on its course of action. Regular supervision by Bank staff helped
resolve outstanding issues and support the successful implementation of this project.
Loan covenants were also followed up and compliance secured.
20.   Not unlike many other projects, a question may be raised regarding the rationale
for the Bank's involvement in this project. While it is likely that PTT could have
arranged for commercial borrowing instead of requesting official financing and export
credits, it is far less certain that the policy issues could have been resolved and
implemented in such a timely fashion. In fact, an important aspect of the Bank-



- 7 -
Thailand/PTT relationship is the way in which the policy issues in the energy sector have,
over the years, been approached and progressively resolved. In the process, the Bank has
had an enormous input, through its technical and economic advice, into the formulation
and implementation of new policies that have resulted in the development of a
substantially deregulated and liberalized energy sector. Moreover, the Bank's suggested
studies, such as the Corporatization/Privatization or the Fuel Option reports have tackled
complex issues and offered recommendations whose adoption will ensure a more
dynamic, efficient and competitive energy sector in Thailand.
F. Borrower Performance
21.   The Borrower continued to be a willing and responsive partner. The project was
implemented with a high degree of commitment and ownership. Considerable efforts
were made to complete the project on time and, but for the inexperience of the onshore
pipelaying contractor, it would have been achieved. Given its comfortable financial
position and its capability to raise funds in the domestic market, the Borrower provided
the necessary counterpart funds on schedule. It engaged competent engineering and
construction management consultants with whom it had an efficient and smooth
relationship throughout the implementation period. The borrower also helped expedite
the certification of the gas reserves without which the project could not be processed at
the Bank.
22.   The Borrower's performance in relation to safety and environmental issues is
particularly noteworthy. In addition to diligently monitoring the action plan included in
the Environmental Impact Assessment of this project, PTT has taken a series of measures
to raise consciousness throughout its organization in respect of quality of life issues. Its
Corporate Council on Total Quality Management and Quality Safety, Health and
Environmental Standards is a clear evidence of the seriousness with which PTT regards
these matters. PTT has been engaged in a reforestation program for many years (for
expenditures on this activity -see the Income Statement, Table 14) and has the ambition
to become a "green company". Its handling of the resettlement of the few families whose
houses were located on the pipeline right of way was in line with the guidelines and
carried out without any problem.
23.   Perhaps the most significant action by PTT was its expeditious decision on
corporatization/privatization issues once the report by the Financial Advisors was
completed. In considering various options, PTT's Board decided in 1998 to pursue the
privatization objective through corporatizing PTT in the form of an Integrated Operating
Holding Company and applying for an IPO issue to be placed on the SET. This
corporatized organizational structure envisages that the three main activities of PTT,
namely the Oil, Gas and International Businesses, will remain as business units with
separate accounting and the necessary transparency and accountability. It also envisages
the spinning off of PTT's gas transmission pipeline operation into a fully owned
subsidiary in order to provide for Third Party Access (TPA).
24.   Despite the effects of the financial crisis, PTT has managed its investments
reasonably well in the last two years. Periodic review of the investment program by the
Bank and the timely action in selling assets and diluting shareholding have helped keep



- 8 -
the investment program on track. However, PTT is facing a daunting task managing its
cash flow during 1999 and 2000 because of the bunching of some costly investments for
the connection of Yadana gas supply to the Central and Northern Regions, and PTT's
decision to provide credit to its affiliated and subsidiary companies (in the place of its
contractual obligation to provide funds to replenish their capital). In the meantime, the
Government has been fully supportive of PTT's efforts to raise funds as exemplified by
the recent agreement reached between the Governments of Japan and Thailand to permit
the private placement of 30 billion yen in bonds issued by PTT. These bonds will mature
in 2004 and carry an interest rate of 1.78% per year with the foreign exchange risk being
assumed by PTT.
25.   The Borrower's performance is thus considered satisfactory. So is its compliance
with the loan covenants except for the Borrower's commitments to submit the long-form
audit report that was performed after a delay and the debt to equity ratio that welnt above
2.33 in 1997. PTT needs to expedite the preparation of the long form audit for 1997 and
1998.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The project substantially achieved its objective. Taking advantage of a highly
competitive environment in the supply, coating and laying of, especially, offshore
pipeline, PTT completed the project with considerable underruns. Technically, the
pipeline has met all performance targets and the capacity has been increased to around
1000 mmscfd. More importantly, the planned institutional development of PTT is both
significant and momentous. The plan to introduce third party access to PTT's gas
transmission pipeline operation is likely to encourage the much desired competition in the
gas industry by enabling the independent power producers (IPPs) and the industrial sector
to enter into direct contractual relationships with the gas producers. This development in
the gas business is the harbinger of many changes that will enhance PTT's
competitiveness and strength. In view of the above and the assured sustainability of the
project, the outcome is considered as satisfactory.
H. Future Operations
27.   The 36" gas pipeline has provided a major artery in the gas transmission network,
enabling the country to maximize the use of natural gas from the Gulf of Thailand. Once
the Wang Noi extension is connected to the Yadana (Myanmar) pipeline, the system's
flexibility and reliability will be considerably enhanced. Later in the next decade, the
development of JDA gas will provide a further expansion of regional cooperation in the
energy sector for the benefit of both Thailand and Malaysia. Although the importation of
LNG has now been postponed for some years, it still remains an option for the future as
substantial gas supply possibilities remain to be developed both in the East Asian region
and the Persian Gulf. Having assisted the creation of an extensive gas transmission
infrastructure in Thailand, the Bank may wish to remain involved in the oil and gas sector
by encouraging further regional development.
28.   PTT's long-term prospects will largely depend on how thoroughly it will proceed
with the corporatization/privatization plan and to what extent it will help (rather than



-9 -
hinder) the introduction of competition in the gas business. Having opted for an
integrated operating holding company organizational structure, which confers many
operational, human resources and synergistic advantages, PTT needs to pursue the Gas
Reform Proposals with the aim of reaching basic understandings with the authorities.
The decision by the Government to allow private participation and free competition in the
gas business through contestability in exploration and production, future main gas
pipeline construction, distribution pipeline investment, and the creation of a regulatory
body to supervise investment and quality of service and to administer permit issuance and
pipeline tariffs, should act as a welcome challenge to the management of PTT. It is, of
course, necessary that PTT not be placed in a disadvantageous position through the
application of reforms, nor is it in PTT's advantage to impede the process of
liberalization and deregulation. The Bank, therefore, needs to keep abreast of the
progress in this area and to be ready to assist the Government of Thailand and PTT with
its advice and counsel. In fact, since the deregulation of the gas business will constitute
one of the crowning achievements of the longstanding cooperation between the Bank and
the Government of Thailand/PTT, it is important that the Bank remain closely in touch
with the oil and gas sector, possibly through the carrying out of studies and technical
assistance.
29.   While PTT is likely to face a tight financial situation in the next year or two, its
long-term financial viability is not in serious doubt. PTT's gas business, in particular, is
well run and technically competent. Its commercial and financial policies and procedures
as well as the quality of its personnel are such as to ensure efficiency and financial
sustainability. Nonetheless, the loss of its sheltered position and the need to face
increased deregulation and competition will require that the gas business enhances its
efficiency and competitiveness through an optimal allocation of its resources and
judicious reduction in its costs. In this process PTT is helped by a buoyant and
expanding market for natural gas and from the existence of many marginal investments
with high returns. But of equal importance is the need for the new PTT to restructure its
investments in the refining subsidiaries. Although PTT's composite shareholding in the
existing five refineries in Thailand represents around 30% of the country's current
refining capacity, PTT cannot exert management control over any of these assets because
of its minority position. Nor can it exert a positive influence on the strategic direction of
its refining affiliaties or inter refinery competition. Moreover, PTT is contractually
obligated to provide extended credit and cash support to Star Petroleum Refining
Company (SPRC) and Rayong Refining Company (RRC) without a commensurate
degree of control. PTT should, therefore, strive to reduce its financial vulnerability while
bringing the refining operation of at least one refinery (e.g. Thai Oil) closer to its
marketing operation, thereby enhancing its operational flexibility and control. Again, the
Bank could play a very useful advisory role in this regard.
I. Lessons Learned
30.   The lessons of this project are not different from those repeatedly arrived at in
many other projects, namely that it is: a) indispensable to have Borrower commitment
and ownership; b) important to identify and manage (mitigate) risks; c) necessary to have
a competent and efficient implementation unit in place; d) essential to pay careful
attention to the Environmental Impact Assessment Report and its plan of action,



- 10-
monitoring mechanism and other environmental concerns; and e) advantageous and
preferable to keep the same task manager throughout the project cycle.
31.  The major lessons of this project are the following:
(a) While it is a rule of pre-qualification procedure that a thorough background
check be made before arriving at the list of qualified bidders, it is important
to reiterate this rule and state that the Borrowers would be well served to
adhere to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines even if the financing for a
contract is provided through non-Bank funds. The Borrowers need to ensure
that references are obtained and contacts are made with as many sources and
previous patrons as possible, so that inexperienced and financially shaky
contractors are weeded out.
(b) An important factor influencing the outcome of a project is the quality of
supervision and the firmness with which the compliance with covenants are
pursued. It was the Bank's unrelenting persistence that brought a delayed
Corporatization/Privatization study to completion, a document that formed
the basis for a far reaching organizational and strategic reform of PTT.
(c) Once studies are completed and a course of action in respect of policy
reforms is agreed upon with the Borrower, and provided that the Borrower
demonstrates its commitment and ownership, the pace of reforms should, to a
large extent, be left to the Borrower to exercise its judgement. Such
incremental, sequential and steady approaches have a better chance of putting
in place long lasting reforms. The success of this project and its predecessors
owes much to a climate of trust between the Bank and the Borrower allowing
the design of achievable targets.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Loan 3799-TH)
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives                 Substantial           Partial             Negligible         Not applicable
(D                  (D                   (D                  (0
Macroeconomic policies                           al                  El                    El                  0
Sector policies                                  0                                        El                   E
Financial objectives                             0                   El                    E 
Institutional development                        0E                                        E                   El
Physical objectives                              0E                                        E                   El
Poverty reduction                                                    El                    El                  0
Gender concerns                                  aEl                                       E                   0
Other social objectives                            l                 E                     E                    0
Environmental objectives                         0                   EE                                        El
Public sector management                                             El                                        El
Private sector development                       0                   E                     EEl
Economic benefits                                          0         EEl
B. Project Sustainability                      Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
(D                 (n                   (E
C. Bank Performance                            Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
(D)                 (D9                  (/
Identification                                   0                   E                     E
Preparation assistance                           0                   E                     E
Appraisal                                        0                   E                     E
Supervision                                       0                  0                     E
D. Borrower Performance                        Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
(D                 (V                    (D
Preparation                                      0                   E                     El
Implementation                                   El                  0                     E
Covenant compliance                              El                  0                     0
Operation (if applicable)                        E                                         El
E. Assessment of Outcome                       Highly                                                        Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
(D                 (D                   (V
Assessment of outcome                             0l                 0                     El                  El



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Loan/Credit title                         Purpose                      Year of        Status
Approval
Natural Gas Development         Engineering loan to prepare the Second Natural  1978        Completed
Engineering Project             Gas Development Project.
(Loan 5010-TH)
Second Natural Gas Development   Erawan to Bangkok offshore gas pipeline.       1979        Completed
Project (Loan 1773-TH)
Liquefied Petroleum Gas Project    Gas separation plant at Rayong and construction  1982    Completed
(Loan 2184-TH)                  of storage for LPG.
Sirikit Petroleum Project       Sirikit oil field development.                  1985       Completed a/
Fuel Option Study               Identification and assessment of the various fuel  1992     Completed
(Report 11948-TH)               options for Thailand to meet its energy
requirements.
Bongkot Gas Transmission Project  Gas pipeline from Bongkot to Erawan to        1992        Completed
(Loan 3508-TH)                  Khanom.
Clean Fuels and Environmental   Reduce air pollutants attributable to petroleum  1995        Ongoing
Improvement Project             fuels through installation of appropriate refinery
(Loan 3889-TH)                  facilities.
at Although the Project was implemented, the entire loan amount was canceled in two installments in 1986 and 1988.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                 Date Actual
Preparation                   September 1992               September 1992
Preappraisal                    January 1993                February 1993
Appraisal                       April 1993                September 1993
Negotiations                    August 1993                   April 1994
Board presentation                September 1993              September 1994
Signing                     September 1993              September 1994
Effectiveness                  December 1993                 January 1995
Project completion                December 1997                December 1998
Loan closing                   December 1997               December 1998
Note: Based on the Lending Operations Timetable dated 1212/92.



- 13 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                              FY95           FY96          FY97          FY98         FY99
Appraisal estimate                    75.0          140.0         155.0
Revised estimates (after              14.9          107.7         115.0         112.4        112.4
cancellation)
Actual                                14.9          107.7         110.4         110.4        111.7
Actual as % of revised estimate       100%          100%          96%           98%           99%
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation Progress
Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Date of Contract with Consultants                                 Apr. 1993            Apr. 1993
Completion of Engineering Designs
Basic Design                                                   Aug. 1993            Oct. 1993
Detailed Design                                                Sep. 1993            May 1994
Line Pipe Material Supply
Date of Award                                                  Dec. 1993            Dec. 1993
Start of Line Pipe Delivery                                    Mar. 1994            Mar. 1994
Completion of Line Pipe Delivery                               Sep. 1994            Aug. 1994
Pipeline Coating
Onshore
Date of Award                                               Jan. 1994            Feb. 1994
Completion of Pipeline Coating                              Nov. 1994            Nov. 1994
Offshore
Date of Award                                               Jan. 1994            Feb. 1994
Completion of Pipeline Coating                             Nov. 1994             Dec. 1994
Construction of Pipeline
Onshore Pipeline
Date of Award                                        Aug. 1994             Oct. 1994
Mechanical Completion                                 Jul. 1995            Aug. 1996
Offshore Pipeline
Date of Award                                         Jun. 1994            Sep. 1994
Mechanical Completion                                 Feb. 1996            Dec. 1995
SCADA/Communications Construction
Date of Award                                               Jun. 1994            Sep. 1994
Completion of Installation                                  Jan. 1996            Oct. 1996
Construction of CompressorStations
Award of Contract                                           Nov. 1993            Sep. 1994
Completion of Installation                                  Jul. 1995            Feb. 1997
Start of Operations
Commissioning Offshore Pipeline                             Feb. 1996            Mar. 1996
Commissioning Onshore Pipeline                              Aug. 1995            Sep. 1996
Start of Regular Operations                                 Mar. 1996            Oct. 1996
Commissioning Onshore Compressor Stations                   Jul. 1995            Feb. 1997
Certificate of Completion for All Contractors               Mar. 1996            Apr. 1997



- 14-
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators for Project Operation
Incremental Quantity of Gas Delivered
Year                SAR Estimate                      Actual
bcf                           bcf
1996                     88.5                          70.1
1997                    120.5                          161.3
1998                    193.5                          188.0
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at pre-   Status      Impact of Study
appraisal/appraisal
Corporatization/Priva- A comprehensive study   Completed    Bank-assisted in preparing
tization Study      regarding PTT's corporate                the terms of reference and
strategy, organizational                reviewed study. PPT's
effectiveness and ownership             Board has decided on the
structure                               recommendations of the
study. Target date for
implementation is set for
the first half of 2000.
Training             Training program for PTT    Completed    PTT used its own funds.
staff in Project analysis and           These functions are
in applying safety and                  already well established
environmental standards
Engineering Study    For Transmission of       Completed    Funded under this loan,
additional gas from Erawan              the study produced a
to Bangkok Area                         blueprint for the
development cif the gas
industry for the next 20
years.



- 15 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
GOODS AND WORKS                       Appraisal Estimate           Latest Estimate
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Land Acquisition                   4.80      --      4.80      4.76      --      4.76
Line Pipe                           --     161.40   161.40      --      151.23   151.23
Pipeline Coating                    --      75.40    75.40      --      53.69    53.69
Onshore Pipeline Construction and  10.00    30.00    40.00     19.88    19.07    38.95
Commissioning
Offshore Pipeline Construction and  24.50    103.00   127.50    4.72    83.32    88.04
Commissioning
Consulting Services                12.90    15.20    28.10     13.49    16.76    30.25
Facilities                         5.00     9.30     14.30     10.19    17.48    27.67
Supply and Installation of Compressor    2.50  22.00    24.50  0.17     8.09      8.25
Insurance                          0.30     2.10     2.40      2.40      --       2.40
PTT Project Management             4.00      --      4.00      5.89       --      5.89
Institutional Strengthening and     --      2.00     2.00      1.16      --       1.16
Corporatization Study
Taxes and Duties                  22.20      --      22.20     9.65      --       9.65
TOTAL BASE COST                   89.20    422.00   511.20    72.31    349.64   421.95
Physical Contingencies             8.90     42.20    51.10      --       --       --
Price Contingencies                10.80    26.30    37.10      --       --       --
TOTAL PROJECT COST                108.90   490.50   599.40    72.31    349.64   421.95
Interest During Construction        --      75.10    75.10     18.47    35.83    54.30
Other Costs including foreign       --       --       --       6.06       --      6.06
exchange loss
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED    108.90   565.60   674.50    96.84    385.47   482.31
Source: PTT



- 16-
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                                      Appraisal                 Actual
Estimate
IBRD                                           155.00                  111.69
ADB/JEXIM                                      200.00                  140.80
EIB                                            47.00                   48.00
PTT Commercial Borrowing                       100.00                  106.24
PTT Internal Cash Generation                   172.50                  75.58
TOTAL                                          674.50                  482.31
Source: PrT
Table 9: Thailand: Second Gas Transmission Project
Re-estimated Economic Rate of Return
1997 dollars
Year    Pipeline   Pipeline     Cost of      Cost of   Total Value Gas     Net      Annual Flow   Gas Flow to
Capex      Opex    Bongkot Gas  Unocal Gas  in New Pipeline    Benefit   New Pipeline  New Pipeline
(US$ mil)  (US$ mil   (US$ mil)   (US$ mil)    (USS mil)    (US$ mil)          (bcf)       (mmcfd)
1993         0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0             0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0
1994      -171.8         0.0           0.0         0.0             0.0      -171.8          0.0           0.0
1995      -183.6         0.0           0.0         0.0             0.0      -183.6           0.0          0.0
1996       -82.7       -12.2        -107.4       -13.0           250.0        34.6          70.1        192.0
1997       -16.8       -13.7        -112.9      -194.5           575.5       237.6         161.3        442.0
1998        -1.1       -13.7        -135.1      -121.1           670.5       399.5         188.0        515.0
1999         0.0       -13.7         -70.1      -103.8           781.2       593.6         219.0        600.0
2000         0.0       -13.7         -78.8      -104.4           756.5       559.6         212.1        581.0
2001         0.0       -13.7        -110.8      -102.4           678.4       451.5         190.2        521.0
2002         0.0       -13.7        -101.2       -74.3           781.2       592.1         219.0        600.0
2003         0.0       -13.7         -93.6       -67.2           781.2       606.8         219.0        600.0
2004         0.0       -13.7         -72.0       -58.9           781.2       636.6         219.0        600.0
2005          0.0      -13.7         -71.8       -57.9           781.2       637.8         219.0        600.0
2006         0.0       -13.7         -42.7       -48.8           781.2       676.0         219.0        600.0
2007         0.0       -13.7         -41.9       -55.7           781.2       670.0         219.0        600.0
2008         0.0       -13.7         -42.3       -56.2           781.2       669.0         219.0        600.0
2009         0.0       -13.7         -43.2       -49.7           781.2       674.7         219.0        600.0
2010         0.0       -13.7         -44.5       -48.1           781.2       674.9         219.0        600.0
2011         0.0       -13.7         -46.0       -45.3           781.2       676.3         219.0        600.0
2012          0.0      -13.7         -47.4       -50.3           781.2       669.9         219.0        600.0
2013         0.0       -13.7         -48.9       -57.9           781.2       660.7         219.0        600.0
2014         0.0       -13.7         -50.4       -92.8           781.2         0.0         219.0        600.0
2015          0.0      -13.7         -52.0      -132.6           781.2         0.0         219.0        600.0
TOTAL        -456.0      -285.8      -1413.2      -1534.8         14649.1      9765.7       4106.6
NPV         -347.48      -87.88       -535.29     -536.95         4388.74     2740.75
IERR                                                                           58.9%
Gas Netback Value ($/mmnBtu) 3.92
Notes: OPEX %pa of total CAPEX: 3%



- 17 -
Underlying Assumption for Economic Analysis
1.    The assumptions made in the economic analysis of this project involve: i) the value of natural gas
to the Thai economy; and ii) the cost of delivering gas from Bongkot and Unocal fields to the end users,
notably power plants. To arrive at the costs, further assumptions regarding the level of reserves, future
production rates and division of flow between the 34" and the 36" pipelines have also been made.
2.    As for the value of gas, the Fuel Options Study for Thailand (Report 11 948-TH) established that
low sulfur imported coal constituted the economic fuel for Thailand on a long-term basis. Given that gas
in Thailand attains its highest economic value when used in a combined cycle power plants, the value of
gas to the Thai economy is, therefore, equal to the cost of the next best alternative fuel in the power
sector (i.e. low sulfur coal) when adjusted for differential capital, operating and maintenance expenditures
and fuel efficiency. This "break-even" price or netback value of gas is calculated to be $3.92 per mmbtu
which results from equating the cost of generating electric power in a 2000 MW power station utilizing
imported low sulfur coal at current and projected prices with that of a 600 MW combined cycle unit using
natural gas (see Tables 9A and 9B)
3.    The economic cost of the delivered gas to the power plant gate includes the field development,
production, gathering and transmission costs involved in delivering the gas reserves over the life of the
project-20 years. As of the beginning of 1999, the proven reserves of Bongkot and Unocal fields are
estimated at 7.9 tef, while the probable and possible quantities amount to 5.3 tcf. These reserve figures
guarantee the full capacity utilization throughout the entire economic life of the old 34" and the new 36"
pipelines (Table 9c).
4.   Even though the capacity of the 36" pipeline has been increased to around 950-1000
mmscfd by the installation of a compressor station in 1998, the economic analysis is done on the
basic of the original capacity at 600 mmscfd. The gas supply from Bongkot to Erawan Riser
Platform (ERP) is partially transported to Khanom with the balance fed into the 36" pipeline.
The remaining capacity is available to carry gas from the Unocal Agreement Area.



-18-
Table 9A: Economic Analysis
Power Cost & Net Back Value - Gas
Combined Cycle Plant with Natural Gas
Size - 600 MW
ASSUMPTIONS
Plant Factor - 70%          Capital Cost - $650/kw                    Life - 20 years
Efficiency - 44%            Operating Cost - 4.0% of Investment cost Construction Time - 3 years
Capital      Power          Gas          Unit      Total   Operating    Total        Total
Cost      Generated   Consumption  Fuel Cost  Fuel Cost    Cost    Operating   Capital
(Smil)    (GWh/Year)  (BCFlYear)    (Smil)    (5mil)    ($mil)           Cost:    & Oper.
($mil)     Cost
($mil)
1994        130.00            0             0          0          0          0           0     130.00
1995        130.00            0             0          0          0          0           0     130.00
1996        130.00            0             0          0          0          0           0     130.00
1997            0       1840.00          14.25       2.45      34.91      15.60      50.51      50.51
1998            0       2759.00          21.38       2.47     52.90       15.60      68.50      68.50
1999            0       3679.00          28.50       2.50     71.23       15.60      86.83      86.83
2000            0        3679.00         28.50       2.52      71.94      15.60       87.54     87.54
2001            0        3679.00         28.50       2.55      72.66      15.60       88.26     88.26
2002            0        3679.00         28.50       2.57      73.39      15.60       88.99     88.99
2003            0        3679.00         28.50       2.60      74.12      15.60       89.72     89.72
2004            0        3679.00         28.50       2.63      74.86      15.60      90.46      90.46
2005             0       3679.00         28.50       2.65      75.61      15.60       91.21     91.21
2006            0        3679.00         28.50       2.68      76.37      15.60       91.97     91.97
2007            0        3679.00         28.50       2.71      77.13      15.60       92.73     92.73
2008            0       3679.00          28.50       2.73      77.90      15.60       93.50     93.50
2009             0      3679.00          28.50       2.76      78.68      15.60       94.28     94.28
2010            0       3679.00          28.50       2.79      79.47      15.60      95.07      95.07
2011            0       3679.00          28.50       2.82      80.26      15.60       95.86     95.86
2012            0       3679.00          28.50       2.84      81.06      15.60       96.66     96.66
2013            0       3679.00          28.50       2.87      81.88      15.60       97.48     97.48
2014            0        3679.00         28.50       2.90      82.69      15.60       98.29     98.29
2015            0        3679.00         28.50       2.93      83.52      15.60       99.12     99.12
2016             0       3679.00         28.50       2.96      84.36      15.60       99.96     99.96
NPV @ 10%  323.29      21704.92         168.14                442.39      99.78      542.17    865.46
Power cost = US3.99 cents/kWh
Source: Fuel Options Study



- 19-
Table 9B: Economic Analysis
Power Cost and Net Back Value - Coal
Coal Fired Power Plant
Low Sulfur Coal (0.5%), without FGD
Size - 2000 MW
ASSUMPTIONS
Plant Factor - 70%       Capital Cost ($/kW) - 1076                   Life - 25 years
Efficiency - 38%         Operating Cost - 3.70% of Investment cost  Construction Time - 5 years
Revised
Capital    Power  Volume of Imp. Coal   Fuel   Operating  Tot. Op.   Total
Cost   Generated    Coal      CIF       Cost      Cost      Cost      Cost
(S mil)  GWh/Year (mil tons)  (S/ton)   (S mi)   (S mil)   (S mil)   ($ mil)
1994.   430.4          0         0         0         0         0         0    430.40
1995     430.4         0         0         0         0         0         0    430.40
1996     430.4         0         0         0         0         0         0    430.40
1997     430.4         0         0         0         0         0         0    430.40
1998     430.4         0         0         0         0         0         0    430.40
1999                6132      2.09     49.00    102.41    79.624    182.03    182.03
2000                9198       3.13     49.27    154.22    79.624    233.84    233.84
2001               12264       4.17     49.54    206.58   .79.624    286.21    286.21
2002                12264      4.17     49.81    207.71    79.624    287.33    287.33
2003               12264       4.17     50.09    208.88    79.624    288.50    288.50
2004               12264       4.17     50.36    210.00    79.624    289.63    289.63
2005               12264       4.17     50.64    211.17    79.624    290.79    290.79
2006               12264       4.17     50.75    211.63    79.624    291.25    291.25
2007               12264       4.17     51.03    212.80    79.624    292.42    292.42
2008                12264      4.17     51.31    213.96    79.624    293.59    293.59
2009               12264       4.17     51.59    215.13    79.624    294.75    294.75
2010               12264       4.17     51.87    216.30    79.624    295.92    295.92
2011                12264      4.17     52.16    217.51    79.624    297.13    297.13
2012               12264       4.17     52.45    218.72    79.624    298.34    298.34
2013                12264      4.17     52.73    219.88    79.624    299.51    299.51
2014                12264      4.17     53.02    221.09    79.624    300.72    300.72
2015               12264       4.17     53.31    222.30    79.624    301.93    301.93
2016               12264       4.17     53.60    223.51    79.624    303.14    303.14
2017               12264       4.17     53.90    224.76    79.624    304.39    304.39
2018               12264       4.17     54.19    225.97    79.624    305.60    305.60
2019               12264       4.17     54.49    227.22    79.624    306.85    306.85
2020               12264       4.17     54.78    228.43    79.624    308.06    308.06
2021                12264      4.17     55.08    229.68    79.624    309.31    309.31
2022               12264       4.17     55.38    230.93    79.624    310.56    310.56
2023               12264       4.17     55.69    232.23    79.624    311.85    311.85
NPV    1631.55   64086.77     21.79             1114.67    448.77   1563.44   3194.99
Power cost = US4.99 cents/kWh
Source: Fuel Options Study



Table 9C: Economic Analysis: Unit Cost of Bongkot and Unocal Gas
(1997 Dollars)
BONGKOr (BASE CAST)                                                         UNOCAL
Daiy    Annual   Capex    Opex    Total            Dail    Anmual   Capex    Capex    Capex    Capex    Capex    Opex          Tota
Flow      Flow                        Cost         Flow     Flow    Unocal I Unocal f Unmc     Unoca IV   Totl                Costs
(nmcd)    (lcd    (U  ni) (U  no  (U  md)          (mnfd)   (be)   ( m)SS mlit) (M   mi) (U   nil) (1  nd) (M   mit (USS mdt)
1993     71.0      25.9    431.3      81.1    512.4         745.0    271.9     60.7      53.2     41.6       7.0    162.6    124.2    286.8
1994    199.0       72.6    162.8     43.5    206.3         702.0    2562      54.4      29.8    164.9     28.8    278.0    125.5    403.4
1995    233.0       85.0    216.2     46A      262.6        716.0    261.3     42.7      22A     210.2     44.3    319.6    130.7    450.3
1996    332.0      121.2    156.3     52.3    208.6         785.0    286.5     37.4      47.2    162.8    101.7    349.2    137.9    487.1
1997    345.0      125.9    175.7     57.6    233.3         981.0    358.1     47.1      13.6    162.1    332.1    554.9    138.9    693.8
1998    421.0      153.7    167.7     64.5    232.2         982.0    358.4     34.7      31.3    142.4     92.9    301.4    138.9    440.3
1999    534.0      194.9     50.2     56.2    106.3        1034.0    377.4     13.1      90.1     74.5      92.9    270.7    162.3    432.9
2000    542.0      197.8     64.6     57.9    122.5         893.0    325.9      14.4     80.1     74.8      92.9    262.2    138.9    401.1
2001    545.0      198.9    130.8     59.6    190.5         830.0    303.0      12.0     482     130.5      86.8    277.6    138.9    416.5
2002    545.0      198.9     89.7     61.4    151.1         987.0    360.3      2.0      25.8     94.7      50.5    173.1    138.9    312.0
2003    545.0      198.9     76.5     63.2    139.7         978.0    357.0      3.5      23.1     89.8       1.0    117.4    1623      279.7
2004    545.0      198.9     52.1     65.1    117.2        1133.0    413.5      3.7      25.3     60.6       1.0     90.7    161.2    251.8
2005    545.0      198.9     56.5     67.1    123.5        1196.0    436.5     16.5      352      30.7       1.0     83.4    161.2    244.6
2006    545.0      198.9      5.8     69.1      74.9       1367.0    499.0     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    161.2    230.9
2007    545.0      198.9      3.0     71.1      74.1       1211.0    442.0      14.0     18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    161.2    230.9
2008    545.0      198.9      1.8     73.3      75.1       1203.0    439.1     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    161.2    230.9
2009    545.0      198.9      1.2     75.5      76.7       1245.0    454A       14.0     18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    141.3    211.0
2010    545.0      198.9      12      77.8      79.1       1229.0    448.6     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    131.9    201.6
2011    545.0      198.9      1.3     80.3      81.6       1229.0    448.6      14.0     18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    120.4    190.1
2012    545.0      198.9      1.3     82.8      84.1       1040.0    379.6     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7    108.7    178.4
2013    545.0      198.9      1.3     85.5      86.8        849.0    309.9     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7      98.2    167.9
2014    545.0      198.9      1.3     88.2      89.5        492.0    179.6     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7      86.2    155.9
2015    545.0      198.9      1.3     91.1      92.4        326.0    119.0     14.0      18.4     26.8      10.5     69.7      77.8    147.5
Total  10852.0    3961.0   1850.1   1570.5   3420.6       22508.0   8215.4
NPV   3543.38    1293.33                     1767.00      8205.52  2995.02                                                           3278.11
Source: PiT



-21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present
Agreement Section    Type    Status   Description of Covenant                           Comments
Loan       3.03          7        C    During project implementation, Borrower shall handle  In compliance
affected persons in accordance with the principles for
payment of compensation and resettlement
3.04          9        C    Borrower shall consult with the Bank when amending the In compliance
Bongkot Gas Sales Agreement, Unocal Gas Sale
Agreements I-III, or the Gas-Sale-Purchase Agreement
3.05          6        C    Borrower shall take all necessary measures required to  In compliance
ensure implementation of the Action Plan contained in
the Environmental Assessment Report in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank
4.03          5        C    Borrower shall maintain adequate insurance       In compliance
5.01 (b)(i)   I        C    Borrower shall have records, accounts and financial    In compliance
statements audited each fiscal year, in an appropriate
manner, by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank
5.01(b)(ii)    1,9    CD   Borrower to provide the Bank with audited financial    Complied with
statements and audit report within six months of the end after delay
of the fiscal year
5.01(b)(iii)   1,5     C    Borrower to provide any other financial information to  In compliance
the Bank as requested from time to time
5.01(c)      1,9       C    Borrower shall maintain adequate records concerning   In compliance
statements of expenditure, which should be included in
the annual audit
5.02(a)       2        C    Beginning September 30, 1994, and every fiscal year   In compliance
thereafter, Borrower should generate funds from internal
sources not less than 25% of annual average capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year
5.02(b)      2,9       C    Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower  In compliance
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower,
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the 25% intemal funds generation requirement for
capital expenditure, and furnish the Bank with a copy of
such review
5.03(a)       2        C    Borrower to maintain net revenues of 1.3 times the  In compliance
estimated debt service requirements each fiscal year.
5.04(a)       2       CP   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  In compliance
shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such   except in 1997
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to
30.



- 22 -
Covenant Present
Agreement Section    Type    Status   Description of Covenant                           Comments
5.1 (a)       5       CD   Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1995, furnish the  Complied with
Bank for its review and comments the findings and  after delay
recommendations of the Corporate Restructuring and
Institutional Strengthening Study
5.1(b)        5        C    Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank with  In compliance
respect to the recommendations of the Corporate
Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening Study not
later than September 30, 1995
5.1(c)        5      NYD   Borrower shall implement the recommendations of the   N'ot yet due
Corporate Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening
Study, taking into consideration the Bank's comments
5.2(a)       5,6       C    Borrower shall implement the Action Plan and the  Irt compliance
associated monitoring activities contained in the
Environmental Assessment Report
5.2(b)       5,6       C    Borrower shall implement the recommendations of the  In compliance
study on safety engineering and environmental standards
for PTT's gas transmission operations
5.3          5,6       C    Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1995, employ  In compliance
consultants to caTry out the Managerial Capabilities,
Safety Standards and Environmental Regulations
components of the Project, amended to ensure the sale
and purchase of new gas reserves, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank
5.4           9        C    Borrower shall, commencing on November 1, 1994, and In compliance
for each of its fiscal years thereafter, until completion of
the Project, prepare and submit to the Bank for its review
and comments, quarterly progress reports on project
implementation
5.5           9        C    Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994, submit In compliance
to the Bank copies of the executed Bongkot Gas Sales
Agreement; Unocal Gas Sales Agreements I-III, and the
Gas-Sale Purchase Agreement, as amended, to ensure the
sale and purchase of new gas reserves, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank
C  Covenant complied with          4 = Counterpart funding
CD = Complied with after delay     5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
NC = Not complied with             6 = Environmental covenants
CP = Complied with partially       7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
Covenant type:                     9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
I = Account/Audits                 10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
2 = Financial performance/revenue  11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
generation from beneficiaries      12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds  13 = Other



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                   No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank
manual statements observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (as of March 1999)
Stages of project cycle         Staffweek              Amount
Actual              US$('000)
Pre-Appraisal                      36.1                  115.8
Appraisal                          30.8                  109.0
Negotiation                        6.0                   23.8
Supervision                        27.0                  110.2
Completion                         7.3                   34.0
TOTAL                             107.2                  392.8
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions'
Performance Rating
Stages of     Month/ No. of SW in   Specialized   Implem.  Developt. Types of Problems
Project cycle   Year  Persons Field:   Staff skills  Progress"' Objectivesb/
Represented"'
Supervision I   12/94    1       1         ES           S         HS    Due to delay in effectiveness, it was
agreed that deadlines for the corpo-
ratization study and training would
be extended
Supervision II  12/95    1       1         ES           S         HS    Corporatization study delayed,
though PTT has employed Booz
Allen to study its future
privatization.
Supervision III  2/97    1       1         ES           S          S     Delay in carying out the corpora-
tization study
Supervision IV  11/97    1       1         ES           S         S      Delay in getting govermment support
to carry out the recommendations of
the corporatization study
Supervision V    5/98    2       1         ES           S         S      The training of PTT's privatization
will be affected by how quickly
Thailand
Supervision VI  12/98    3       1     ES,EC,FA         S         S      Though the PTT Board has decided
on corporatization/privatization, the
matter has to go through a length-
ening government approval process.
ICR VII         4/99     3       1       ES, EC         S          S
a.  ES = Energy Specialist; EC = Energy Consultant; FA - Financial Analyst
b.  HS = Highly satisfactory, S = Satisfactory
c.   Most supervision missions for this project were combined initially with supervision of Bongkot Gas Transmission Project (Loan
3508-TH) and later with that of Clean Fuels and Environmental Improvement Project (Loan 3889-TH)



-24 -
Table 14: Statement of Incomea"
Million Baht
1994         1995        1996         1997         1998
Revenue
Sales                        101,531      120,537      163,246      336,258      212,796
Other income                   1,678        2,119        2,467        3,321        9,890
Total Revenues               103,209      122,656      165,712      239,579      222,686
Expenses
Cost of Sales                 87,661      104,798      145,922      212,559      192,731
Selling Expenses               1,614        1,609        2,061        2,812
Administrative Expenses        3,440        3,538        3,956        5,563       6,741
Depreciation                   1,521        2,134        2,388        3,568        4,528
Total Operating Expenses      94,236      112,079      154,327      224,502      204,000
Interest Expenses              1,203        2,295        3,033        4,568        5,210
Foreign Exchange loss (gain)     308          293        (434)        7,251         904
Reforestation Expenses             5          463         484          387            --
Extraordinary Item                --           --          643         662          667
Total                          1,516        3,051        3,726       12,868        6,781
Net Profit                        7,456        7,527        7,658        2,210       11,905
Notes: a! Up to 1996, PTT's financial year started on October 1 and ended on September 30. As of 1996 PTT's
financial year coincides with the calendar year.
bl Selling and Administrative Expenses combined
Source: PUT



- 25 -
Table 15: PTT's Balance Sheet
Million Baht
1994      1995       1996      1997       1998
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                               3,220     6,322      5,338      4,507     7,390
Short-Term Investments               217       391        105       215         24
Accounts Receivable                9,474    13,237      18,449    34,688    28,792
Notes Receivable                    1,552     1,683     2,969      4,222     2,088
Inventories                        3,975     4,439      6,280      6,141     4,445
Other Current Assets               4,090     4,699      3,466      5,292     6,575
Total Current Assets                22,528    30,771     36,607    55,065    49,314
FixedAssets
Long-Term Investments              18,322    23,276    26,032     26,869    32,398
Property Plant and Equipment      25,929    26,105     39,631     45,392    58,153
Construction, Work in Progress     5,965    13,858      8,284     10,464     3,504
Total Fixed Assets                  50,216    63,239     73,947     82,725    94,055
Other Assets                         2,499     3,002      3,603      3,548     3,219
Total Assets                         75,243    97,012    116,157    141,338   146,589
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Bank Overdrafts                      770       --          67         84       534
Accounts Payable                   4,800     7,999      11,429    17,833    10,899
Other Accounts Payable             1,521     1,710       1,656     1,643     2,454
Accrued Expenses                   2,170     2,029       1,664     4,022     4,151
Short-Term Loans                   2,237     2,639      4,209      3,819     6,785
Other Current Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities            14,462    17,338     22,867    32,104    35,578
Long-Terms Liabilities
Long-Terms Loans                  28,401    42,136     49,395     75,566    65,911
Other Long-Terms Loans              1,486    1,766      2,105      2,126     2,131
Total Liabilities                    44,350    61,240     74,347    109,796   103,619
Equity
Govermnent Contribution               3,291     3,291      3,291     3,291     3,291
Surplus from Contributions             453       482        437        482       866
Retained Earnings                    30,122    34,875     40,084    36,551    39,479
Deferred Foreign Exchange Gains (loss)   (2,973)  (2,877)  (2,002)    (8,783)   (667)
Total Equity                         30,894    35,772     41,810    31,541    42,970
Total Liabilities and Equity         75,243    97,012    116,157    141,338   146,589
Long -Term Liability / (Long-Tenn     49%       55%        55%        71%       61%
Liability -+ Equity)
Current Ratio                          1.56      1.77       1.60      1.71       1.39
Days Receivable                         33        40         41         53        49
Days Inventory                          14        13         14          9         8
Source: PTT



- 26 -
Table 16: PTT's Actual Financial Performance
Item           Covenant   1995    1996    1997    1998
Debt-Service Coverage    >1.30       3.40     1.90    2.91     3.03
Long Term Debt/Equity    <2.33       1.22     1.27    2.52     1.61
Self-Financing           >25%       27%      26%      51%    136.5%_
Table 17: Thailand's Actual and Projected Energy Consumption
(thousand barrel/day equivalent)
Oil  Natural Gas    Liguite       Coal     Hydro        rotal
Actual
1995         650        160           110         29          32        982
1996         703        179           122         49          36       1089
1997         701        222           135         41          35       1134
1998         630        235           125         20         30        1040
Projected
1999         618        280            93         11         28        1029
2000          585       330            93          13         30       1052
2001          601       350           105          16         30       1102
2002          615       373           115         25          33       1161
2003          640       373           120         70          33       1235
2004          672       362           141         110         33       1319
Source: PTT & NEPO



- 27 -
Table 18 - Projected Statement of Income
Million Baht
1998 W     1999      2000      2001       2002       2003      2004
(unaudited)
Revenue
Sales                      212,796   245,433   280,459    299,835    319,906   326,467   336,876
Other Income                9,89e'    4,082      4,061      5,404      5,215     6,113     7,034
Total Revenues             222,686   249,515   284,520    305,239    325,121   332,580   343,910
Expenses
Cost of Sales              192,731   221,887   251,926    270,309    287,208   293,513   303,148
Selling and Administration   6,493     7,395     7,866      8,336      8,755     9,074     9,778
Total Operating Expenses   199,224   229,282   259,792    278,645    295,963   302,587   312,926
Depreciation                 4,528     4,554     5,878      5,953      6,135     7,049     7,830
Interest Expenses            5,210     7,497     8,055      7,934     6,999      6,451     5,978
Foreign Exchange              904        ---        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---
Loss (gain)
Reforestation Expenses        248       295        300       300        300        100        49
Extraordinary Items           667       667        ---        ---        ---       ---        ---
Total Expenses             210,781   242,29S   274,024    292,833    309,397   316,187   326,783
Net Project                   11,905    7,220     10,496     12,406     15,724    16,392    17,126
Notes: a/ Includes profit realized from share dilution in PTTEP (B5.992 billion)
b/ Prepared in April 1999
Source: PTT



- 28 -
Table 19 - Projected Cash Flow
Million Baht
1998a     1999    2000       2001      2002      2003       2004
(unaudited)
Not Income                           5,913    7,220   10,496    12,406    15,724    16,392     17,126
Non Cash Items
- Deferred Fx.                   667       667        0         0         0         0          0
-Devalue                         904         0        0         0         0         0          0
- Depreciation & Others         5,372    4,554    5,878      5,953    6,135    7.,049      7,830
Cash Flow from Operation            12,856   12,441   16,373    18,359    21,859   23.,441     24,956
Contribution
Revenue to Treasury                (2,049)  (6,706)  (2,527)   (3,149)   (3,722)  (4,717)    (4,918)
Bonus                                (236)        0        0         0         0        0          0
Decrease (Increase) in Working
Capital
- Account Receivable            3,054   (5,631)     981       990      1,039    (722)    (1,003)
- Inventory                     1,696    (470)    (311)      (110)    (102)      (15)       (22)
- Account Payable             (2,927)    3,723    4,013      1,951     1,905      401        642
- Other Working Capital       (1,991)    (171)  (7,023)      1,903    2,410     1,238      1,755
Repayment of Long Term Debt        (3,652)  (6,781)  (7,315)  (10,675)   (6,419)  (8,402)    (6,892)
Cash Before Investment              6,750   (3,594)    4,191     9,269    16,971    11,224     14,518
Cash for Investing Activities
Investing
- PTT Oil                     (1,694)  (2,460)  (1,732)   (2,474)   (2,303)  (1,874)    (1,667)
- PTT Gas                     (6,839)  (10,763)  (7,549)   (3,861)   (7,704)  (4,392)    (2,011)
- Joint Venture               (5,529)  (14,970)   7,661)   (2,445)   (2,698)  (3,018)    (1,687)
- Head Office                   (591)    (404)    (187)      (100)    (100)    (100)       (100)
- PTT International              (73)    (168)    (218)       (93)     (79)      (74)       (71)
Cash for Investing Activities     (14,726)  (28,765)  (17,347)   (8,972)  (12,885)  (9,459)    (5,536)
Cash Excess (Shortage)             (7,976)  (32,358)  (13,155)     296     4,086     1,765      8,983
Sources of Finances
- Share Dilution                6,204        0   11,824         0         0        0           0
- Privatization                    0         0   12,000         0         0         0          0
- Long Term Debts               3,930   25,959        0      4,000        0         0          0
Cash From Financing Activities      10,134   25,959   23,824     4,000         0        0           0
Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash     2,158   (6,400)   10,669     4,296     4,086    1,765       8,983
Cash Beginning                       4,722    6,880      480    11,149    15,445   19,531      21,296
Cash Ending                         6,880      480   11,149    15,445    19,531   21,296       30,279
Notes: a/ prepared in April 1999
Source: PTT



- 29 -
Assumptions underlying the Projected Statement of Income and Cash Flow
1. GDP and energy consumption growth rates
Year         1998    1999    2000      2001      2002    2003    2004
%             -8.0    -2.0     2.1      3.7       4.0      4.5     5.0
%             -8.3    -1.0     2.2      4.8       5.3      6.4     6.8
2. Exchange rate: US$1 = B40
3. Dividend Payment to Ministry of Finance: 35% for 1998 and 1999, 30% for 2000 and thereafter
4. Proceeds from share dilution in SPRC and RRC are estimated at B 11824 million in year 2000.
5. Proceeds from PTT privatization in year 2000 are estimated at B 12,000 million.
6. Outstanding extended credit to subsidiaries and affiliates:
SPRC      US$80 million
RRC       US$40 million
ATC       US$40 million
TOC       US$50 million
Thai Lube  US$20 million
7. Borrowing plan
For Projects in 1999
Yadena pipeline: B5,200 million bond offering and US$100 offshore borrowing
Ratchaburi - Wangnoi / Pailin: Yen bond equivalent US$248.97 million
Refinancing
1999: B6,821 million domestic bond
2001: B4,000 million
8. Payment of past accruals by Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (BMTA) and State Railway Authority of
Thailand (SRT) will be brought up-to-date by the year 2000.



-30 -
Table 20: Actual and Projected Supply of Gas from the Gulf of Thailanid and
Flow of Gas Through the Transmission System - mmscfd
Supply                                    Flow throughi Pipelines
Year      Bongkot    Unocal   Tantawan &          JDA        ERP to        34"         36"
Operation   Benchamas                  Khanom      pipeline    pipeline
Actual
1993        71          745           --           --          --          816         --
1994        199         702                                    93          806         --
1995        233         716           --           --          130         818         --
1996        332         785           --           --          161         764         192
1997        345         981           70            --         178         776         442
1998        421         982           88           --          176         800         515
Projected
1999        534         1034         118           --          182         800        704
2000        542         893           128          --          182         800         581
2001        545         830           128          --          182         800         521
2002        545         987           128          --          180         800         680
2003        545         978           128          --          180         800         671
2004        545         1133          128          --          210         800         796
2005        545         1196          128          --          228         800         841
2006        545         1367          40            --         234         800         918
2007        545         1211          --           205         237         800         924
2008        545         1203          --           304         238         800        1014c/
2009        545         1245          --           425         238         800         1177
2010        545         1221          --           639         238         800         1367
2011        545         1229          --           707         238         800         1443
2012        545         1040          --           707         238         800         1254
2013        545         849           --           707         238         800         1063
2014        545         492           --           707         238         800         706
2015        545         326           --           707         238         800         540
Notes: a/ Supplies are based on current estimate of gas reserves and development programs
b/ Capacity of 36" pipeline increased to 1000 mmscfd through installation of a compressor station.
c/ Pipeline capacities will be increased to accommodate the JDA supply through the installation of a mid-line
compressor station.
Source: PTT and WB staff estimates



APPENDIXES






-33 -                      Appendix A
Mission's Aide Memoire
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Thailand: Second Gas Transmission Project
(Loan 3799-TH)
1.    A World Bank Implementation Completion Report Mission (ICR Mission) visited
Thailand during 19 - 24 April 1999 to collect data and to hold discussions with the
officials of the Borrower, Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT). The mission consisted
of F. Najmabadi, consultant, who was joined by Messrs. M. Farhandi and C. Gunn for the
wrap- up session.
2.    A World Bank loan of US$155 millions was approved for the above project in
September 1994 and the project became effective in January 1995. One year into the
implementation, it became clear that because of the lower contract price for the offshore
pipeline construction (the major activity financed by the Bank loan) not all of the Bank
financing would be utilized. Consequently, some US$ 40 million of the loan was
cancelled in October 1995.
3.    The construction of the offshore 36" pipeline was completed on schedule in
March 1996. The construction of the onshore pipeline was, however, delayed for nearly
one year due to the contractors' inexperience in laying pipe in flooded and waterlogged
terrain. The construction of the SCADA system and the compressor station was also
delayed by about one year, with completion achieved in October 1996 and February
1997, respectively. As a result, the volume of gas transmitted during 1996-70 bcf-fell
short of appraisal estimates (88.5 bcf). This shortfall was, however, more than made up in
the succeeding two years when the throughputs were 161 bcf in 1997 and 188 bcf in
1998, as against the appraisal estimates of 120.5 bcf and 193.5 bcf, respectively.
4.    The project was implemented at a cost of US$482.3 million, some 36% below the
cost estimated at appraisal. It has become operational at a time when the demand for gas
in power generation is expected to remain buoyant and as more gas is becoming available
from the Bongkot and other producing fields in the Gulf of Thailand. As a result the
pipeline has been assured of high throughput for the rest of its economic life, a fact that
will help the increased use of an environmentally friendly fuel in the Thai economy.
Given the underrun in project cost and the expectations of full capacity utilization of the
pipeline in the coming years, it is anticipated that the economic and financial rates of
return for this project to be as favorable as those indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report.
5.    The recommendations of the study on Safety Engineering and Enviromnental
Standards for the PTT Operations, have been acted upon and internalized. PTT has
instituted organizational units whose job is to monitor compliance with quality, safety,
health and environmental standards. These QSHE (quality, safety, health and
environment) divisions are forned at all Business Units and subsidiaries and the whole
activity is supervised at the corporate level by the PTT Corporate Council on Total
Quality Management and Quality, Safety, Health and Environmental Standards. The
council is the body that sets annual targets for various part of the organization so that
compliance with IS09000 and ISO 14000 and other relevant standards are achieved



Appendix A                       - 34 -
throughout the PTT family in as short a time as possible. It is PTT's ambition to become
a "green Company" and a visit by the mission to the Gas Separation Plant at Rayong
provided a clear impression that the maintenance of high QSHE standards has become a
real vocation.
6.    Upon the completion of the Bank-financed Corporatization / Privatization Study
and in line with the recommendations submitted by the group of Financial Advisors, the
PTT Board decided in October 1998 to pursue the privatization objective through
corporatizing PTT in the form of and Integrated Operating Holding Company and
applying for an IPO issue to be placed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). This
corporatized organizational structure envisages that the three main activities of PTT,
namely the Oil, Gas and International businesses, will remain as business units with the
necessary transparency and accountability. It also envisages the spinning-off of gas
pipeline operation into a fully-owned subsidiary in order to provide for Third Party
Access (TPA) under the Government Gas Reform Policy. The whole corporatization /
privatization process is currently proceeding on two parallel tracks.
7.    While the Ministry of Industry (MOI), National Energy Policy Office (NEPO)
and PTT have reached an understanding on the structure of the National Gas Industry-
the linchpin of which is the creation of a corporate entity for the gas transmission activity
as discussed above-the establishment of an independent regulatory body should
constitute the first order of business. Without a credible regulatory system and authority,
both the valuation and privatization of PTT are likely to suffer. The regulatory body
needs to perform its duties in a manner that takes full account of the interest of all the
stockholders in the gas transmission facilities, especially those pertaining to PTT.
Moreover, the successful corporatization/ privatization of PTT will be dependent, to a
large extent, on the establishment and smooth functioning of the regulatory body.
8.    As for the Corporatization / Privatization process, PTT has submitted its plan to
the Ministry of Industry (MOI) in February 1999 and is awaiting their approval. The plan
has to then receive the approval of the National Energy Policy Council (NEPC) chaired
by the Prime Minister. Once these approvals are obtained, PTT can proceed with the
corporatization under the new Corporatization Act and the filing for IPO with SET. It is
anticipated that these and subsequent activities such as preparation of the Prospectus and
the IPO will take until the early part of year 2000. While it is the intention of PTT that the
IPO be made in the first half of the year 2000, and at an opportune time, there is need for
PTT to enter into a serious dialogue with various stakeholders, especially its own
workforce, to ensure that its privatization efforts are not hampered by undue
impediments.
9.    While dealing with these momentous issues, PTT has also had to deal with the
impact of the financial crisis that started in July 1997. For 1997 alone, this has meant an
unrealized foreign exchange loss of Baht 7.25 billion that has reduced PTT's profit to
Baht 2.2 billion. It is clearly too early to reach any definitive conclusion about the likely
future trend in the Thai economy, but there are already signs that the economy might
have completed its contractionary spiral with the recovery starting very gradually. In the
meantime the profitability of PTT has increased during 1998 when the net profit grew to



-35 -                      Appendix A
around Baht 6 billion (without counting a one-time income from a 10% share dilution in
PTTEP of Baht 6 billion).
10.   The contraction of the Thai economy, especially during 1998, and the decline in
energy consumption have of course resulted in the postponement of PTT's capital
investment projects. Nonetheless the finances of PTT appear to remain tight because of
the need to inject large sums into the subsidiary companies, notably the refining joint
ventures. It is PTT's intention to mobilize additional funds through the dilution of its
shareholding in SPRC and RRC (both affiliated refining companies) and the IPO for the
Integrated Operational Holding Company (PTT Plc). Beyond 1999 and 2000, and barring
any unforeseen circumstances, PTT's finance is expected to improve as the cyclical
upturn may begin in the refining and petrochemical industries.
11.   PTT has had a satisfactory record with complying with the financial covenants
entailed in the Loan Agreement. The submittal of the outside auditors' long form report
for 1995 and 1996 has, however, been made with considerable delay and the PTT needs
to expedite the work on the 1997 accounts.
12.   Given the above, it is the mission's preliminary conclusion that this project has
had a satisfactory outcome and its sustainability is assured. Looking over many years of
an amicable and productive relationship between the Bank and PTT (and not limited to
this project), it is clear that Thailand's energy market has evolved from once being highly
regulated into a progressively liberalized, deregulated and competitive market. In the
process, PTT has also gained in strength and efficiency. The Bank and the Thai
Government, and notably PTT, regard these achievements with justified pride. This has
been due, in no small measure, to the persistent efforts of both parties to tackle the thorny
issues in a spirit of cooperation and understanding.
13.   The mission wishes to place on record its appreciation of the cooperation and
assistance provided by the PTT staff and thanks PTT for all the courtesies and hospitality
extended during its stay at Bangkok
April 23, 1999
Bangkok



Appendix B                       - 36 -
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Implementation Completion Report
Natural Gas Parallel Pipeline Project
Project Description
1.  The main objective of the Natural Gas Parallel Pipeline Project was to provide the
Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) with an increase in gas transmission capability
from a number of offshore sources via the Erawan Riser Platform to landfall near
Rayong, extending to the Rayong gas separation plant and continuing north to the vicinity
of Bang Pakong. The project scope was later expanded to include an additional pipeline
to carry natural gas from near the northern end of the onshore segment of the parallel
pipeline to the new power plant for the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailamd
(EGAT) near Wang Noi. This additional supply capability was required to meet the
increasing energy demands of Thailand's growing economy.
2.   The project consisted of the following major parts:
- A new 36-inch diameter, 425-kilometer long submarine gas pipeline linking PTT's
existing Erawan Riser Platform (ERP) with the Thai mainland near Rayong.
- A new scraper launcher and associated facilities on ERP.
* A new 36-inch diameter, 5 kilometer long onshore gas pipeline extending from the
landfall point of the submarine pipeline up to the Gas Receiving Terminal at
Rayong.
*  A new 28-inch diameter, 105 kilometer long onshore gas pipeline extending from
the Rayong Gas Receiving Terminal to PTT's gas metering and pressure control
station at Block Valve No. 6 (BV6) near Bang Pakong.
* New gas/liquids handling facilities at PTT's existing Rayong Gas Receiving
Terminal including a condensate slug catcher, a new compressor station with two
units of 12,500 BHP Motor and 14,100 HP Turbine, a condensate stabilizer., and
interconnecting lines to existing facilities.
* Modifications to PTT's Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system and telecommunications system encompassing both the offshore and
onshore components of the Project.
Wang Noi Extension
* A new 36-inch diameter, 100-kilometer long onshore gas pipeline extending from
the new Bang Pakong Compressor Station to the Wang Noi Power Plant.



- 37 -                    Appendix B
* A new compressor station at Bang Pakong with three units of 14,100 HP Turbine
each.
* A new sales gas metering station at the Wang Noi Power Plant.
* Additional modifications to PTT's existing SCADA and communications systems
as required to monitor and control the Wang Noi Extengion pipeline and facilities.
*  Sales gas connections for two peak power plants at Sai Noi and Nong Chok.
The project began in April 1993 and was completed in October of 1996.
Project Implementation
3.  The project was split into two phases, with Phase I including detailed engineering,
site surveys, and bidding, and Phase II consisting of installation engineering,
procurement, construction, precommissioning, commissioning, and start-up. Multiple
Contractors were used for supply of linepipe, pipe coating, offshore pipeline construction,
onshore pipeline construction and facilities construction, which included SCADA and
Communications installation. Overall project coordination and project management
services were provided by a Consultant to PTT.
4.  The project was executed well, with the only major difficulty being a delay of more
than one year in the project completion date. This was caused by the difficulties in
obtaining access to the onshore pipeline right-of-way caused by extensive landowner
lockouts and performance problems experienced by the onshore pipelaying contractor.
These delays were exacerbated by several natural calamities that occurred during the
Project. Earthquakes in Califomia in January of 1994 and Kobe, Japan in January of
1995 impacted the supply of linepipe and the delivery of major eq.ipment. Most
significant was the extensive flooding along the route of the onshore pipeline that
occurred during the period of August through November 1995 as a result of the worst
rainfall in 1 00 years. This situation brought construction to a virtual standstill for
months.
Project Costs (excluding Wang Noi Extening)
5.  Final actual costs for each portion of the project were as follows (all figures in
millions):
Consulting                        US$  30.26
Supply of Linepipe                     151.23
Linepipe Coating and Jacketing          53.69
Offshore Pipelaying                     88.05
Onshore Pipelaying                      38.94
Facilities and SCADA/Commo.             35.92
TOTAL:                  US$ 398.09



Appendix B                        - 38 -
Land Acquisition                   US$  4.76
Project Management Expense               5.89
Insunmnce                                2.40
Interest during Construction            54.30
Taxes and Duties                         9.65
Other                                  (3.22)
Institution Strengthening Expense        1.16
Gain & Loss from Foreign Exchange        9.28
TOTAL:                 US$ 482.31
Project Performance
6.   The project was implemented satisfactorily. The commissioning of offshore and
onshore pipeline were started in March and September 1996 respectively. The regular
operations were started in October 1996 and onshore compressor station was started in
February 1997. Since the completion of the Project up to March 1999, PTT has been able
to increase the transmission of indigenous natural gas by 685 MMCFD. Transporting the
gas through the 36-inch diameter pipeline together with the existing 34-inch pipeline
increases the flow rate to 1,485 MMCFD, all of which are transmitted to EGAT's power
plant and various industrial and domestic end users. The full capacity of the new pipeline
is 1,200 MMCFD, and 2,000 MMCFD including the existing pipeline.
Performance of the Bank
7.  The project was closely monitored by the Bank. During implementation, the Bank
actively played a constructive role in many parts of the Loan Projects. Close monitoring
by the Bank was of value in expediting implementation.
8.  With efficient support and monitoring, the Bank has been able to quickly response
to all the problems and issues occurred. PTT was provided with many useful advises
both technically and financially which was crucial for the organization to move forward
toward being a world class company. This has proven that the World Bank's role of
monitoring would be significant for PTT at present and in the future.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25766
'1  CHINA.,--._                                100                                             102                                          104
MYANMAR  Y-LA&                                                                                            THAILAND
o' PEOPLE'S.                                                      SECOND GAS TRANSMI5SION PROJECT
.' PEM. ~:GAPRJC
i     .-REP._ '8,>  -14                           PROPOSED PIPELINE ROUTES AND OFFSHORE PLATFORMS 140
i THAILAND   '                                                                                FUTURE PROPOSED EXISTING
00000  E '  aj;M  ODIAi   SOUTH BANGKOK  -BANG  -ApKAG         .=       *      GAS PIPELINES
/                         ~~~~~~~~POWER PLANT           BANG PA KONG
C    BDA                                                         POWER PLANT                             A       TERMINALS
AF|A'                               0                                                         28          0                         PLATFORMS
OF1                                                                                                                                P 10  *  POWER PLANTS
i .'AP                                                                                       6 028                                  GAS FIELDS
I,                                                       )      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~160 KM
Ra  ng                   \                   $t_i, 'i 1  \0 0 0000000 0  < 10DISPUTED AREA
MALAYSIA                                                     Satahip /                                        ---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-12-                                                                                                                                                        121-
MYANMAR (                                           i
0 Prachuap
i KhiriKhcn /h a                                                                    CAMBODIA
lo-
0 ChOumphon
1000g                    2'                                                                                                                                 10 0   0-0;0;
PL&TONG1
f                                             ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~2,4.  FORM:j
143 KM
KHANOM ONSHORE
TERMINAL & POWER PLANT~  4           ~        4WNPOUTO
SuratThokani 0                     1601KM                   TOMR
POWER PLANT
Phangngo ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    PLTFR
000Sf;;0; 0 0 PhangngaNakhon Si0
Thammorato
Krobi
80                                                                                                                                                   as~~
8 Phuket 0                                                                                BONGK
00 0 0  0000 0 0 0000  - 0  \ 0 00 00  tt 0   >  -                          PROLDUCTIONo             <
Phatthclung                                         PLATFORM
0
t0000 0 0000000000\0000000000;00 tf  X a 0Q. -          5ongkhla                                         ft
*                                   0   S  Ysala
: A; :u 0ff  \ ;f; ; 0 ?0 d :; 0 00 i 00 -                  ;'j-            Narathiwatt O 
The bundaes colors,
den-i-ti-n and any
~00     AO56:   t:04Y0000 80;00 R 020 120  160;  : 26W6                          1                                                other i- forma6ionshorn  -
4.00 01   ;;  1 i;; ;; 4142; 8 ; ;01i;; ;00 12 0 1;lo;;O 1200 :       {                                                   - -M  - nap do a- imply,
I   I  I   I  I  I                            (                                                  on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ she porn of Th.e World
KThOMETERS                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ~akro0aisdpsao"Nt -
S 0 0 t;0 ff < 000 \ l2tOlkErES : f ;0 00 0 0 t 00 ; 0 X \  on tshe lagal status ot any
tarlrtoy or any e~olrsment
or an-pt-ne f-su
98    ;0000 S $0 00 0 t;000 00  t0R<; \0 090\ f00  0; 100, EWMALAYSIA                             102                        oaaddari- 1s04
MAY 1994



IBRD 25767
.  CHINA   ,._                                100                                             102'                                           1040
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~THAILAND
MYANMAR~   A
eYANZ9AR , PEOAPoLE'S w                                        SECOND GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
~-..PEOPE  ' 
o '  -pE1P                                                                        GULF OF THAILAND - GAS FIELDS                                      140
BANGKOK-                                            BAIOUNS
THAILAND   .        zVIET                               BBASINOUTLNES
* _7  . .kNAM                                                                                   GAS DISCOVERIES
!,CAMBODIA.                                                                                  Q      GAS FIELDS
x4Jvp i      3                                      -                                                - ~'l |DISPUTED AREA
MAP -
.                                                                                            .    -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/   -.'                                               ,                                                       o0 40   80       120      160     200
' n                                                  - '      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rayong
MALAYSIA  ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~        oan   -                              I        II                I
MALAYSIA                                                     Sattahip-                                            KILOMETERS
The koondaries coiors, d-nomi-ofin-s
and any other info-io shown-
on thin mop do not imply, -n the                          ,.
port of The Wo,Id Bfok Gru.p,                            ,-,                                                               .
ony d,Monent o the legal                                                                          -                                                        12,
stoss otony territory,orony  M    A     MA R
endorsementorocceptonceof  MYANMAR/|xp 
a; ocneptance  ~ ~ ~     ~      0Prachuap
suciriunKhans   CAMBODIA
CMJUMPOi          /i,     Z-   '''H    .' ''-/.'''0/-S_
BASi'N 
Chumphon_
0
501'IGKLA,        TOUG                                                                   N (
100~~~~~~
~~\a SF                                *m9Q5O         t 
Surat Thani 0                              i  
PhukrDt o                                            t                        \,             S- 8 X . '               FUN0  ,  20   6
Phangnga
0                         Nakhon Si
0~~~~~~~~~/                                /
Thammarat0
Krabi
8.8
Phuket 0 OIR
Gas Fields &-Discoveries              TrrgPathln                                                             21-t liARD-MAIY
Numbered by Basin 
OFFSHORE PATTANI
Gas Fields:       Gas Discoveries:      -
I -Erewan         l:-Pladong                                     0Songkhla
2-Boanput          1-Pakarang
3-Satun            2-Trat
4-Platong          a pcilin
5-Kaphong                                          Satun  ,MALY 8ASIN
6-Funan                                                    \                    Yaia
7-Jakrawan                                  .,ra.,                                           walO-
8-Gorxnin                                  /        *JENratohiwatO .6                                                             >1        04
9-Surat
OFFSHORE MALAY                                      -
Gas Fields:       Gas Discoveries:                                                                                                            60
I -Bongkot       75.30ngkot                                                                        ,(
4-Jemch           3-Pilong                                                                                                                  1 _  2  07
5-Bintcng         9-Damnan                                                                                                            '
6-Sepait         l-Laot
7-naos           I-Noring 
3-Buang          Z2-Bejong                                                   MAIAYSIA                102                                          0
3-Tejoh                                                                                                                             1 994
MAY 1994



