Report No.: ......
THAILAND
Second Gas Transmission Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
SAR Report No.: 12700-TH
1rW-copt1



SUMMARY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
FOR
SECOND ERAWAN GAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
A.     INTRODUCTION
1.      The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) completed the construction of a natural gas
transmission pipeline and associated facilities from UNOCAL's offshore Erawan gas field in the Gulf
of Thailand to consumption centers onshore in 1981. In 1985, PTT commissioned another pipeline
connecting UNOCAL's Platong platform to is main transmission system and also installed an
onshore compression station at Rayong. In 1992, PTT constructed additional offshore transmission
pipelines from the Bongkot gas field to Erawan complex and extending the pipeline to Khanom
onshore. PTT now proposes to construct Second Erawan Gas Pipeline Project (the Project) and has
engaged Bechtel Intemational to provide consultancy services and preparation of the EIA. TEAM
Consulting Engineers assisted in the preparation of the EIA. The proposed Project is directly related
to PTT's previous actwities.
2.      The scope of the EIA covers the following aspects:
(i)   characteristics and quality of the environmental resources and values of the study
area;
(ii)   physical, biological, human use and human quality aspects that would be affected
by the proposed Project;
(iii)  short-term and long-term impacts of the proposed Project upon the environmental
resources and values, including significance and magnitude of predicted impacts;
(iv)   major changes in the environment expected as result of proposed Project
development;
(v)   short-term and long-term measures to prevent or mitigate the adverse effects of the
proposed Project on the environment; and
(vi)  appropriate environmental monitoring programs forthe proposed Project based on
the results of the investigation.
B.      THE PROJECT
3.      The proposed Project consists of supply and construction of an offshore and onshore gas
transmission system including related ancillary facilities. The combined system will transport natural
gas from the Erawan complex to Map Ta Phut in Rayong and from there to Bang Pakong in
Chachoengsao Province. The major components of the Project are summarized below:
()    An offshore pipeline 36-inch in diameter and 425 kilometers (km) in length to be
laid in water depths ranging from 64 meters to sea level. This section will link the
existing Erawan Riser Platform (ERP) with the Rayong gas receiving terminal. The
new pipeline will be parallel to the existing 34-inch diameter gas pipeline.



2
(ii)   An onshore pipeline 28-inch In diameter and 110 km in length from the Rayong
gas receiving terminal to PTT's gas metering facilities near Bang Pakong.
(iii) Gas/liquids handling facilities at the Rayong gas receiving facility.
(iv)   Modifications and augmentation to PTT's existing supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) facilifies at the Erawan platform, ERP, Rayong gas separation
plants, and the operations center in Chonbun.
4.      The schedule for completion of the proposed Project is April 1996. The Project is needed
for development of Thailand's affshore gas resources and its transportaton to gas consumers. The
service life of the pipeline and related facilities is expected to be about 40 years. The proposed
route of the pipelines is shown in Appendix 1.
5.      The offshore pipeline route runs North from the ERP to a land fall point near Rayong,
parallel to the existing 34-inch diameter pipeline, approximately at a distance of 3 kms. Water
depths along the corridor are expected to be 60 meters at the Erawan Riser Platform, increasing to
about 66 meters at km 165, then shoaling gradually towards the landing. Bottom surface sediments
along 60 per cent of the route consist of very soft to soft clay. The remaining 40 per cent of the
route substrate consists of firm clay. The seabed material coarsens gradually to sand towards the
landing point.
6.            The onshore pipeline route starts at Rayong along PTT's right-of-way (ROW) for the
existing 34-inch diameter pipeline up to the Rayong Gas Separation Plant From the Gas Separation
Plant, the pipeline route traverses West through public land up to the ROWfor Rayong 115 kV power
transmission line, thereafter Northwest parallel to the existing 230 kV power transmission line
crossing highways number 36, 331 and the new 36. The pipeline route then runs cross country and
meets the 230 kv power transmission line at the crossing of highway number 36, thereafter traverses
North parallel to the 230 kV power transmission line up to the existing Block Valve #6 near Bang
Pakong Power Plant The pipeline terrain is mostly flat, sandy and sandy day soil with the exception
of a few kilometers of hilly terrain along the northem end of Bang Phli-Ao Phai 230 kV line. The
pipeline route consists of approximately 5 km of private land to be acquired by PTT, the remainder
lies within the ROWfor Electricity Generating Authority (EGAT) power transmission lines. To confirm
the suitability of these routes, offshore and orshore surveys will be carried out including vibrocores,
bore holes, and trial pits. Soil resistivity survey will be conducted to analyze soil conditions.
C.      DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
1.    Meteoroloav
7.      The Project area has medium to high temperatures and humidity, with rainfall and winds
varying according to the monsoon season. The annual mean temperature is 28.0°C and annual
mean rainfall is 1,334.5 mm. South and southwestwinds are predominantfrom Februaryto October,
with speeds ranging fom 3.0 to 9.2 knots, and extreme gusts from 40 to 50 knots.



3
2.    Oceanography
8.      The wave height averages about one meter at the Erawan field. The tidal currents along
the east coast are weak and irregular, generally varying from 1.0 to 2.0 knots. In the vicinity of
Sattahip, flooding currents set northward through the channel between Koh Khram and the shorel'ne
and ebbing currents move southward with velocities of 2-4 knots.
3.    Geoloag and Seismologv
9.      The topography of the eastem region comprises the northem highlands, the southem
highlands, and the alluvial lowland between the highland zones. The major geological units are
Precambrian, Ordovician, Cretaceous, Permian and Quatemary which consist mostly of alluvium
deposits, sedimentary rocks and granite. Some metamorphism has occurred. Seismic risks along
the pipeline route are considered negligible.
4.    Sois and Sediment
10.     The onshore area comprises various soil types such as poorly graded sands, silty sands,
clayey sands, sandy silts, clayey silts and highly plastic clay. The subsea bottom profile of the
offshore area in the Gulf of Thailand along the proposed pipeline route is composed of a soft clay
overlay and rugged terra'n of stiff clay formations at the Pleistocene surface.
5.    Water Quality
11.     The water quality along the proposed pipeline route ranges from normal sea water to
relatively high suspended solids along the near shore area due to strong wave actions.
S.    Aquafic Ecol2gy
12.     Abundance of plankton was measured alor, the proposed pipeline route and vicinity. Out
of 56 planktonic species collected, 45 species comprised phytoplankton and 11 species
zooplankton. Zooplankton were the dominant groups in terms of density. Benthos occupy the mud
and muddy sand habitats, 28 species having been identified.
7.    Fishery
13.     The main section of the submarine pipeline will be in the central gulf up to inner gulf area
where bottom trawl fish catch is relatively small. Closer to the pipeline landfall, fishing is more
typical of the Thai fishery in general except for a much greater use of anchovy purse seines. About
147,000 tons of marine fish are landed annually at Rayong, this being 8.8 per cent of the overall
national catch. Fish traps, comprising floating bamboo rafts moored by wire to concrete moorings,
presen&v extend to large offshore areas. Bottom trawling for demersal fish is illegal within 3 km of
the coastai line.
8.   Terrestrial Ecologa
14.     Along the proposed onshore gas pipeline route, which runs parallel to the EGAT
transmission line ROW, most of the affected area is currently utilized for agricultural purposes.



4
However, two sections of the pipeline will pass through some restricted land use area, Le. the first
section will pass the Khao Khieo national reserve forest in Amphoe Ban Bung of Chonburi Province,
and the second section will pass Huai Mahad national reserve forest in Amphoe Ban Chang of
Rayong Province. Part of this restricted area is categorized in watershed class 11. The land use in
the first section is primarily secondary growth forest while the second section is being utilized by
villagers for agricultural purposes.
9.    Land Use
15.     Land use pattems within the 40 meter strip along the pipeline route of the onshore section
can be classified Into agricultural land (52.3 per cent) followed by idle land (32.4 per cent), forest
(8.9 per cent), urban (5.7 per cent), fish pond (0.5 per cent) and golf course (0.2 per cent).
10.  Mineral Resources
16.     The information obtained from the Department of Mineral Resources indicates that no
major minerai deposits are located in closevicinity of the onshore pipeline route. On the other hand,
the offshore pipeline route runs along sedimentary rocks of high petroleum potential.
11.  Transportation/Naviaation
17.     The gas transmission line will intersect the following highways in the vicinity of Chonburi
and Rayong provinces: 3191, 3376, 331, 3241, 344 and 315. The pipeline will also intersect the
railway line linking Sattahip and Map Ta Phut which is currently under construction and is scheduled
to be completed by 1995. Thailand's main ports are located in Bangkok and along the eastem
seaboard. About 38 per cent of the domestic coastal traffic will cross the pipeline route.
12.  Infrastructure and PubRic FacRities
18.     Eight waterworks, under the management of the Public Works Department, are located
along the proposed pipeline route. Most of the raw water is obtained from Bang Phra, Chang Nam,
Map Prachan, Nong Kho and Nong KIang Dong reservoirs. Electric power for the eastem region
is mainly supplied from EGArs combined cycle power plants at Bang Pakong and Rayong. The
ROW for two high-tension transmission lines linking Rayong power plant and Bang Pakong power
plart will serve as the route for the proposedVonshore gas transmission pipeline. Most submarine
cables in the Gulf of Thailand lie along the west coast and will not be crossed by the proposed
pipeline route. There is one submarine communication cable linking the Sattahip Base in Thailand
and Van Tan in Vietnam but it is currently inoperative.
13.  Socio-Economic Data
19.     Results of the interviews with the community residing along the existing onshore gas
pipeline showed that most of the people are indifferent about the operation of the existing gas
pipeline. Interviews with the community along the proposed route showed that most people did not
know about the Project, some expressed concems about possible disruptions during construction.



5
-          14.  Archaeologv/Historical Values
20.     There are no reports or evidence of archaeological or historical values located in the
vicinity of the proposed pipeline route.
15.  Aestheffe/Tourlsm
21.     There are several tourist places located between Map Ta Phut and Bang Pakong. These
attractions, however, are at a significant distance from the pipeline route.
D.      ANTICIPATED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
1.   Trenchina of Seabed
22.     The offshore pipeline seabed will be trenched approximately 4 meters deep for the first
4 km from the shore and back filled after the pipeline is laid. These activities will increase the
concentration of suspended solids in water column. The decreased transparency and light
penetration along the pipeline route will temporarily affect the growth of the phytoplankton. In
addition. the benthic organisms along the trenched seabed will be directly disturbed along the 4 km
trench. However, the findings from the monitoring program during construction of the Bongkot Gas
Transmission Project established that the abundance of phytoplankton and zooplankton in coastal
sea water were not affected outside of the immediate pipeline route area by the construction
activities. Change in species composition were observed but may not be directly associated with
construction activities. It was also observed that there were algae growing on the sediment surface
when benthic was sampled approximately 100 meters from the pipeline, which indicated relatively
minor disturbances on the aquatic habitat and that an adequate amount of sunlight must have
reached the seabed for algal growth. The integrated finding on planktonic and benthic communities
confirm that the actual impact on aquatic rife is limited to the immediate area of the pipeline route
and the effects on the other nearby areas are relatively minor.
2.    Disposal of Solid Waste and Waste Water
23.     Solid wastes will be generated mainly during the construction period from onshore pipeline
excavation and refuse from construction camps and pipe laying barge. The spoil from the onshore
trenching will be temporarily stored along the sides of the trench and used as back filling material
upon completion of the pipe laying actvity. The solid refuse from the construction camps as well
as the pipe laying barge will be stored in the designated containers and disposed of onshore. The
pipe laying barge will be equipped with an effluent treatment system which will treat the waste water
to conform with Thai Standards prior to discharge to the sea. For the on land construction camps,
sanitary latrines will be adequately provided to minimize any contamination of the water resources.
The process waste water from the pipeline operation will be collected at the Rayong gas terminal
and will be sent to the effluent treatment faclities to reduce oil/grease content to 15 ppm. before
disposal according to Thai regulations.
3.   Obstruction of Transportation/Navication
24.     The onshore pipeline will cross 8 highways and one railway line. In general, highways and
railway lines can be crossed without disruption of taffic. To accomplish this, a larger diameter steel



6
casing pipe will be bored and jacked under the highway/railway crossing using specially designed
equipment and the pipeline will be slipped through the casing pipe. During construction of the
offshore pipeline, the use of a pipe laying barge that will have the pipeline suspenc'sd behind the
barge, will pose a hazard to navigation. With proper warning buoys to mark the construction area
and with frequent patrolling by speed boats to warn ships in the area prior to the pipe laying
process, this impact will be relatively minor. The near shore pipe laying operation near the IEAT
Map Phut Port is expected to take a maximum of live days. Some interference with the navigatlon
to the port may be encountered during this period. The IEAT industrial port access channel is
utilized only by about 11 vessels each day. Consequently, the offshore pipeline construction
activities should not pose any significant impact on the navigation channel. During operation stage,
the onshore pipeline will not affect transportation network as the pipeline will be buried underground
and the route itself is not on the normal public transport network. For the offshore route, anchorage
will be prohibited along the pipeline to prevent any possible pipe damages.
4.   Obstruction of Fishery Activities During Construction
25.     The suspended pipeline during construction could affect near shore fishing during
construction because the fishing nets for trawler fishing could get fouled on the pipeline. However,
these problems can be alleviated by using proper warning devices and prohibition of trawling in the
vicinity of the pipe laying barge.
5.   Interference with the Existinq Socio-Economic Conditions
26.     During construction period, temporary increase of the population due to the pipe laying
activities can be expected, which may create social problems. The problems can also extend to
nearby communities. In addition, workers will require addfitonal water supply, health services and
other infrastructure facilities. These requirements can be accommodated by adequate provision of
such facilities and services during the construction period. Addifional transportation/navigation
generated by construction activities including transportation of construction workers and materials
may increase incidence of accidents both onshore and offshore. However, measures to conduct
safe operations will be enforced. The benefits which can be derived by the local people include
commercial services, food, medical, and household necessities.
6.   Hazardous Conditions and Disrudtions
27.     Tropical cyclones and typhoons normally occurfrom Septemberto December. The severe
weather will have a significant impact on the pipe laying activities. The construction activities have
to be stopped during these storms. The mobility of the pipe laying barge can prevent damage to the
pipeline including the vessel and crew during rough sea conditions. In order to enhance the
occupational health and worker safety during the construction period, construction equipment will
be kept in good order. Good working conditions will be established at the sites. Adequate safety
measures will be taken and safety related equipment as well as fire fighting equipment will be
provided in order to reduce the potential for accidents. In addition, stingent safety regulations will
be set and safety awareness increased by training and education of construction workers. Proper
records of accidents, their causes and the damage will be maintained.
28.     Hazardous operating conditions can result from over-pressure, leaking equipment, fire or
inadequate maintenance. Hazard analysis was conducted for onshore and offshore pipelines.



7
Hazard assessment was conducted for the fire damage caused by onshore pipe leak including
instantaneous release with immediate ignition. Pipeline leakage may cause flash fire within a range
of 8 km from the release source. This distance can be minimized with the appropriate design, and
by establishing and adhering to proper operating and maintenance procedures as well as personnel
training. Specifically, over-pressure protection of the pipeline is ensured as the pipeline design
pressure is significantly higher than the operating pressures. In addition, over-pressuring of the
pla.orm facilities as well as the onshore pipeline terminal facilities are prevented by various types
of safety equipment, including pressure regulators, high pressure alarm, shutdown valves,
emergency shut-down system, blow-down connections and pressure safety valves. For the subsea
pipeline, the hazard of gas leakage was assessed as being at a low level.
E.      ALTERNATIVES
29.     Altemative offshore routes do not present any significantly different environmental
conditions than the chosen route. The proposed onshore route has less impact on the environment
than the next alternative, which would be parallel to the existing pipeline, and be located adjacent
to the highway for a considerable portion of the route. The proposed Project is part of an investment
program that is designed to increase the natural gas output from the offshore Bongkot and other
gas field in the Guff of Thailand. The supply of gas from the offshore field to onshore markets for
power generation and other industries will help alleviate energy supply shortages and save foreign
exchange. Natural gas made available through the transmission facilities constructed under the
proposed Project will replace imported fuel oil used in power generation and will also be used as
a feedstock for the petrochemical industry, as new gas markets emerge in the longer term. In the
absence of the infrastructure for supply of natural gas to be made available through investment in
the proposed Project, the altemative fuel used for power generation would be imported fuel oil, or
possibly domestic lignite. The gas-fired power plants will lead to improved environmental quality,
as natural gas is a cleaner fuel source compared with altemative energy sources. Improvements
in the environment will be particularly important in terms of air quality made possible through
reduced emissions of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide.
F.      INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
30.     The PTT Safety and Environmental Divisiori of the Gas Pipeline Operation Department will
be the responsible unit for implementation of the proposed monitoring program. The environmental
monitoring program will include water/aquatic biology samples during construction and operation
phases. In addition, the monitoring of land use changes, socio-economic impacts, occupational
health/safety, transportation/navigation and solid waste generations have to be conducted
periodically. PTT will assign the trained transmission system and environmental personnel to
monitor and maintain the suitable safety and environmental conditions during construction and
operation of the proposed pipeline. Furthermore, the designated personnel will be re-trained
periodically in environmental management, safety, fire control, loss control and hazardous chemical
management to enhance their abilities to improve and maintain the proper environments and
working conditions according to intemal and international standards. PTT will submit the monitoring
report every six months to the Bank throughout the construction period and the first year of
operation.



8
G.      CONCLUSIONS
31.     The implementation of the proposed Project will provide a clean buming fuel supply to
EGAT for a combined cycle power plant at Bang Pakong and other locations and customers, thereby
reducing Thailand's dependence on foreign energy sources. To receive these benefits, certain
potential environmental Impacts of the proposed Project, i.e., water qualitylaquatic biology, solid
wastetwaste water disposal, obstruction of transportation/navigation, fishery, and risks with
hazardous conditions will have.to be tolerated. The anticipated impacts are mostly short-term and
are relatively minor. Furthermore, the mitigation measures proposed will reduce the Impacts to
acceptable levels. To ensure the effectiveness of the mitigation measures, monitoring programs
include water quaiity, aquatic biology, public healfth and safety. PTr proposes an environmental
monitoring plan that will sample water quality and aquatic biology during both construction and
operation. The plan will also monitor fish landings at Rayong, solid waste generation, water supply
requirements and socio-economic impacts. The results will be used to adjust the environmental
management plan based on experience gained. The Safety and Environment Division of PTT's Gas
Pipeline Operation Department is directy responsible for the implementaticn of the pipeline
environmental management plan. Pipeline system personnel have been trained in loss control,
safety, fire control and hazard managemen' on a regular basis. PUT realizes its responsibility for
maintaining good working conditions, operational safety and environmental protection which are
comparable to international standards. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of its practices, PTT
periodically has safety audits carried out by outside parties specializing in providing such services.
Operational safety is paramount to PTT which will be monitored as part of the environmental
management plan.



9
SUMMARY OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS. MmGATION MEASURES AND MONITORING PROGRAMS
Environmentl    Phaw              Cause of Impact               Mhlgallon Meaure                 Montodng Program
Compon                                                   _
Meteorology    Constructon - Sevre wather - affect         Propet plan consrucdon         - None
the consruction actiis.       advies. patcublay in
September through December
for possible storm encounter.
Sol            Construction - On shore pipe laying - a     Baciddng and replacemnt of      None
induce sil erosion Song       groundoover n soon as possible
the pipeine                   after burW of pipeine.
Maine Water    Construction - Pipe laying will disturb sea  Seect spoil areas for trenching  Monitor the marine war quaty
Quality                      bottoms, increase the suspended   and placing grvei at spans.  In the coastal ae  close to the
solid concentration turbidity  -Strictly prohibitthe dumping of  sensitive receptors to be affected
In the immedate area.         refs and gabage to the son.     by the transmission pipeine (ery
- Disposal of refuse and garbae   - Provido containers for refuses  3 months throughout the construction
from the waring vesel into    on barge.                       period and first yea of operation
the sea.                                                     period.
Operaion    - Discharge of cemnical from    Ensure the use of proper chemical
hydrostae t est of the      - Install the on-in gas leakag
pipeline,                     detecton and pressure change
- Gas leakage from the pipline.  dtecdion systems.
Aqwtic Biology  Constuction - Habitat disturbances increm  -The same mures as those        Monitor planon  ad bento in
turbidity and suspended soid  forwatarqulty.                  the costl area (eery 3 months
in water column:            - Slect appropria excaveion       throughout the construction peiod
- Toxic contumination ot hydro-  for coste pip- laiwn           and firat year of operation period).
sttie test chemical.        -Uin e chemical concenraton
- Hinder shing boat             to the IlV thatis acceptable
operation                     in major fhing as.
Opraion    - Gas leakage from the pipeine   Ssme as madne water quliwy.
may affect aquatic lIfs.
Torrestiua     Construction - Addtiond dcwaig of tres     - Minim&o the additional Seating    - Non
Ecology                      in Khoo Oijeo and Huai Mahad    s-
Foraes.
Tansportaton   Construction - Irftee the trfic low         Provide properrntag acess       Regularly callectthe accident
temporaiy,                    forte construdon vehide         reords during the conb= tion
- Increase traffic volume from   Strcy Elmit the sped and       Period
construction activities       trfic rule of &d constuction
._  _ _ ._     _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _  _   _     v e N l s                      _ _  _   _   _  _   _   _



10
onmenrt      Phase            Cause of Impact              Migadion Munuxre                Monfto2ng Program
Infrautructure    Construction -Increased localwtr        -Provide drinking water fromn   Reguajdy colct the record on
consumption.                  othr sourc_                   proWvion of waor supply. persona
Irtar  ctexdting watr         Implemnt the suitable construct-    hygiene and accidentL
trmieaon One.                 Ion and supemislon method.
Possbl, accientwith           Stiet nforcemen of proper
construction vehidc  and      precauton mesurs and clone
ehleal tanamnesione           supervision during constuction
mne towers.
Possible elecctria hock      - Employ proper lectrel grounding
from Induce high voltge       method and proper inpecons
to the pipe and other rlated
I facid".
Navigation     Construction - Increased number of shp in the   - Provide the signeirng devices  Rguldarly colbe the aecident
Projecs construction vessels  duning the pipelsying period  recorcs during the consuction
In the navigaton route,       especialy at the intenected   period.
shipping ines.
Operadon    - Ship's anchor may damage    - Set up s prohibited enchotage
I the pipeline,                 zone.
Soaio-eonomic  Construction - Sociel problems such *s     - Regulay monitor siuation     Conduct attitude survey once
different traditions, theftL  and caion workes,             a year during construction and
quarrel and drug abuse.     -Cooperate wth local            first year of operation period.
- Incre  job opportunities,     authorties
- Incovenience for the loea   - Offer fair compensation re.
traffic.                    - Provide improved facits
- Temporay decrease quality     for community.
of environment in the immdiate - Set up Public Relation progran
vicinity of the pipeine       for the loea residents.
construcion area.
Operation    Environmental problems of the
tranmission pipeline project
which can induce negatve
attitude of local reider                                       _
Public Heti    Constuction - Health problems and accident.   - Proision of proper health and  Reguldary calect update and
Safety                     - iving conditions in construction  environmental sanitaton improv-   sses public health problems
camp.                         munt In workers communits     and eccident
- PrWde adequael s     devis
nd at stringent regulaions.
Operaon    - Public helth and ocupationsi   - Conduct comprehensiv training
heath problems.               progrms. wtlh specia asanton
- Hazardous event from gas      to polution control, saft
leakage,                     end fire pr6veribonr
Aistd          Conficton - No impact on the distng                                       Norn
Archaeloqy                     iesth/tclachaseloqice values.



Appendix I
5ga00.g                    ~~~~10240T0
THAILAND
A              /                  SECOND ERAWAN
'r  |   rGAS TRANSMISSION PROJECT
K  f  ;  0b                    ?~~~~~~~~~~~NOT  EASASE=RN      "_f'°
4 2rA    t              y          ';d                       \
Chon  B urgr3     '  ,      ;   ,  7  '   ~~~~~NaMmo Raasima 
LI
<||   {           x   \\~~~ CENTRALX    ;                                .
s    J               <        g~~~~~~~ANGKCOK   ,g7   7 -
-~~~~8
-11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                   %% -1' ..... M. 
| AMf w- 1=<1 A R  > o
(             G ,, Iof  oef  JI nt'ila oda
O  So  100 lS0 200                  gZoPm S                        x
-           Nseo .  5XSOUTHERN            o    P aOb,
_     "oona Sounary                     J _ 
Int tmtons IJounaarv                    
18oun-rst not neoswcRy autorr"X_}                     \        , 
9U°OC O' VAY                                NR EA       N*



