Report No. PID6578
Project Name                     Georgia-Protected Areas Development Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       GEGE48791
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Implementing Agency
Address DEPARTMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
Address: Chavchavadze Avenue 84, Tbilisi
Contact Person:
Tel: (995-32) 233340
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 1, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Georgia, a mountainous country covering 70,000 km2 with a population of
5.5 million people, is situated between the south slope of the Caucasus
Mountains, the east coast of the Black Sea and the northern edge of the
Turkish Anatolia plain. Forests cover 40t of the country (2.8 million
hectares), largely in the Greater Caucasus Mountains (Georgia's northern
border), the Lesser Caucasus (its southern border), and in intervening
lowlands and foothills. The principal landscapes of the Caucasus include
foothill and mountain forests and subalpine meadows of the Greater and
Lesser Caucasus; treeless mountain upland plateaus of the lesser Caucasus;
humid lowland forests of western Georgia, and the arid steppe and deserts
of eastern Georgia.The project region, between the Caucasus Major and
Minor mountain ranges of central and eastern Georgia, lies at a crossroad
where the flora and fauna of at least three biogeographic provinces
converge, resulting in high levels of biodiversity. In this region are
found species typical of Europe (e.g., bear, lynx, wolf, chamois, red
deer), Central Asia (e.g., Caucasian tur or mountain goat, leopard), and
the Middle East regions (e.g., hyena, gazelle); many of these species are
threatened elsewhere in their ranges. The varied terrain and climatic
conditions contribute to a diversity of ecosystems and species. There are
572 vertebrate species (348 species of birds, 95 mammals, 52 reptiles, 13
amphibians, and 64 fishes). The Georgian forests of the Caucasus Mountains
contain over 200 plant community associations, and 120 species of trees,
and 250 bushes. They include rich deciduous forests at lower elevations
of oak, beech, lime, sweet chestnut, hornbeam, hazelnut and walnut, and
conifer forests and alpine habitats at higher elevations. In eastern
Georgia, forest ecosystems include threatened alluvial floodplain forest
and pistachio woodland. Among its 4,500 species of vascular plants, nine
percent are endemic to Georgia and 14 percent are endemic to the Caucasus
region.   Sector Issues.   During the Soviet era, Georgia obtained its
timber and timber products from Russia (up to 3.5 million m3 annually),
allowing its forests to be managed for protection and recreation. Like
other countries of the former Soviet Union, social and economic conditions



since independence have led to more intensive utilization of forests for
income and subsistence. However, management of the forest sector is still
weakly adapted to Georgia's current economic, social, and environmental
needs, resulting in unsustainable forest practices and the degradation of
globally significant biodiversity in Caucasus forest ecosystems. Two
factors contributing to the unsustainability of forest use in Georgia are:
Lack of investment in managing Georgia's forests for ensuring sustainable
management and conservation for both goods (timber, non-timber forest
products, and wildlife) and environmental services (e.g., watershed
protection). The Department of Forestry is faced with the challenges of
modernization at a time when the sector is faced with low state budgets
for forest management. The problem is exacerbated by a steady rise in
illegal and under-managed harvesting of timber and fuelwood. Similar
problems are encountered in the management of mountain grasslands, which
are being overgrazed by sheep.The current protected area network is
inadequate for the purposes of protecting the areas of highest
biodiversity in the Georgian Caucasus Mountains. At the time of its
independence, Georgia's protected area network, modeled on the zapovednik
system of the former Soviet Union (FSU), consisted of small, isolated,
strictly protected reserves. The reserve system protects less than 2t of
forests within the Georgian Caucasus Mountains and is managed solely for
scientific research and education. In addition, the Department of
Protected Areas (DPA) and the Department of Forestry (DoF) have been
following a traditional division of resource management into "protection"
and "production" functions, in contrast to more modern approaches of
multiple use protected areas planning and management. Government
Strategy. Government has recognized the need to address the problems
facing the forest sector in a comprehensive fashion. Over the last five
years, Government, NGOs and concerned individuals have engaged in broad,
participatory dialogue to better understand the problems and agree on the
best way to ensure the protection of Georgia's unique forest ecosystems
within the overarching objectives of reducing poverty and promoting
economic growth. Consultations were undertaken to:Understand the problems
and build consensus on priority actions. To better understand the
problems and build consensus on their solutions, Georgian stakeholders
have prepared three integrated strategies: a Forest Sector Strategy, a
National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan, and a National Environmental
Action Plan. These strategies identify the reform agenda and investment
priorities for forestry, biodiversity conservation, and protected areas in
Georgia; and Agree on an environment and natural resources management
agenda within Georgia's goals of poverty reduction and economic growth.
Government has recently prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (IPRSP) which identifies its priorities and programs for reducing
poverty. The IPRSP identifies improved forest management and conservation
as one of Georgia's priorities for attacking poverty.
2. Objectives
The project objective is to conserve Georgian biodiversity through the
creation of three ecologically and socially sustainable protected areas in
forest ecosystems, and to build capacity for mainstreaming biodiversity
conservation into the production landscapes which connect them. The
project would (i) support protected areas planning in the Central and
Eastern Caucasus; (ii) establish protected areas management and build
awareness of biodiversity conservation at three sites in the Eastern
Caucasus; and (iii) reorganize and strengthen the Department of Protected
- 2-



Areas to conserve and manage biodiversity. The project is consistent with
the GEF Operational Program for biodiversity conservation.The project will
have strong strategic and operational linkages with the Forests
Development Project (FDP), a proposed US$20 million credit that is
scheduled for Board presentation in FY02 and will be implemented by the
Department of Forestry. The FDP will establish sound forest management
systems that improve the contribution of Georgia's forests to economic
development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable
basis. Together, the FDP and Protected Areas Development Project will
address the root problems facing the forest sector, including the
conservation of Georgia's biodiversity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank assisted Georgia with preparation of its National Biodiversity
Strategy/Action Plan, National Environmental Action Plan, and Forest
Sector Review, which together provide a strategic foundation for the
project. Through these and other activities, the Bank has developed an
understanding of the environment and development issues facing Georgia,
and gained experience with government and civil society. Through the
IDA/GEF financed Integrated Coastal Management Project, the Bank is
assisting with a protected areas management activity in Kolkheti which
will be linked with activities under the Protected Areas Development
Project. The Kolkheti activities would benefit from the project's support
to strengthen the central Department of Protected Areas, and through
technical assistance in protected area management.The GEF adds value
through its global experience on the design, implementation, and financing
of biodiversity conservation projects. GEF support is justified by the
global significance of the biodiversity of the Caucasus region, the
existing threats to ecosystem integrity and species survival, and the
commitment of the government to implementing the project. GEF-supported
initiatives have helped to foster greater collaboration between government
agencies and NGOs in project preparation.
4. Description
The project would support protected area planning in the Central Caucasus
and ecological corridor planning in the Eastern Caucasus; finalize
management plans at three protected areas and build the capacity of the
Department of Protected Areas (DPA) to implement them, and build public
support for biodiversity conservation. The project includes the following
four components:Component 1: Support Protected Areas Planning. The
Protected Areas Development Project (PADP) and the Forests Development
Project (FDP) would collaborate in the preparation of a protected area
plan for the Central Caucasus Planning region, and on two corridor plans
in the Eastern Caucasus planning region. For the 7,430 sq. km Central
Caucasus planning region, activities include: (i) inventories and analyses
of the landscape diversity, as inputs to the protected area planning
process; (ii) harmonization of the policies and classifications for
land-use, resource-use and protected areas, resulting in a unified
classification of protected areas for the Central Caucasus region, and
(iii) preparation of a protected area plan, with management plan
guidelines for each protected area category (based on IUCN categories).
The PADP and FDP would also collaborate on two activities to promote
biodiversity conservation in the production landscape in corridors
connecting protected areas in two areas of eastern Georgia (i) the
alluvial floodplain forests along the Alazani River, and (ii) the mosaic
- 3 -



of grasslands and forests in key corridors connecting protected areas in
the Caucasus mountains which provide critical habitat for globally
threatened species such as the Dagestan tur, Caucasian black grouse and
Caucasian snow cock.Component 2: Establish Protected Areas Management and
Build Awareness of Biodiversity Conservation. The PADP would implement
management plans at three protected areas in eastern Georgia: the
proposed Tusheti (115,800 ha) and Vashlovani National Parks (44,796 ha)
and Lagodekhi Reserve (which would be expanded under the project from
17,932 to 25,400 ha). The key activities to be implemented are: (i)
participatory finalization of management plans, following baseline surveys
and applied studies to assess biodiversity, resource use (livestock
carrying capacity, fuelwood collection, hunting) and potential visitor
impacts; leading to (ii) improved resource management, with participation
of local user groups; (iii) establishment of infrastructure to support
park administration and visitor use; (iv) support to local communities in
carrying out biodiversity-friendly activities in the park support zone
through a small grants program; (v) community outreach to build public
awareness of the project's objectives and encourage participation of local
communities in the project; and (vi) professional development and training
for DPA protected area staff in protected areas management, business
planning and ranger training. The U.S. National Park Service (USNPS)
would assist with mentoring and technical assistance to DPA staff at the
three protected areas through training and exchange programs with "sister
parks" in the U.S., focusing on park administration, site-specific park
planning and management, visitor use, services and revenue generation.
This assistance, co-financed by the U.S. Government, will also be provided
to the DPA central department under component 3. Component 3: Reorganize
and Strengthen the Department of Protected Areas. Under preparation of
the PADP, the Department of Protected Areas (DPA; with assistance of the
US National Park Service) updated its mandates and identified priorities
for institutional reform and strengthening. The PADP would assist the DPA
to implement its mandate, to manage protected areas for the conservation
and use of the country's landscape and biological diversity, through: (i)
restructuring of the DPA into three branches (operations, planning, and
administration); (ii) professional development and technical assistance in
key areas, including public administration, protected areas and resource
management, information management and GIS, tourism marketing and
development; financial management and operation of the revenue account for
new protected areas; and (iii) equipment needed to strengthen DPA
management (office and transport). The project would also assist DPA to
develop and implement standardized protocols for biodiversity monitoring
in the project protected area and the corridors that connect them. It
would also assist DPA to develop and implement a national strategy and
action plan to build national support for biodiversity conservation and
protected area management in Georgia.Component 4: Project Management
includes support for operating costs of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). The PIU for the PADP would be in the Department of Protected
Areas.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 10.3
-4-



6. Implementation
The Department of Protected Areas would be responsible for day-to-day
implementation of the project under the guidance of the Project Steering
Committee. The central department would be responsible for implementing
the activities under the protected area planning component in the Central
Caucasus (Component 1), and the institutional development component
(Component 3), including annual work programming and budget planning,
development of technical specifications for goods and services,
procurement evaluation, recruitment of staff, and quarterly reporting of
project activities and outcomes. The administrations of the Department of
Protected Areas in Tusheti, Lagodekhi, and Vashlovani would be responsible
for implementing the management plans under Component B. Each of these
protected areas is staffed with a Director and technical specialists which
have been responsible for preparation of these plans. Because many of the
goods and services to be received by these administrations to implement
the management plans are similar, the three administrations would
collaborate to prepare draft technical specifications and terms of
reference for goods and services to be provided by the PIU (Project
Implementation Unit). A PIU would be responsible for the procurement and
financial management arrangements of the project including accounting,
financial reporting and auditing. The PIU is currently the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) and is registered, under Presidential Decree, as
the Protected Areas Development Center. The PIU would be responsible for
(i) procurement of all goods and services; (ii) assisting the Department
of Protected Areas to prepare an annual work program and budget, which
will be approved by the Board; and (iii) coordinating the delivery of
technical assistance provided by the National Park Service and
international consultants. The Bank conducted a financial management
capacity assessment and confirmed that the PIU satisfies the Bank's/IDA's
minimum financial management requirements.The project Steering Committee
would approve the annual work-program and budget, provide policy guidance
to the Department of Protected Areas on project implementation issues, and
approve keystone work products. The Steering Committee will ensure
democratic representation of the key governmental actors (Department of
Protected Areas, Ministry of Environment, Department of Forestry, Ministry
of Agriculture, and Academy of Sciences). The chairperson would be
selected from outside aforementioned ministries/agencies, and preferably
from the Parliament. The Steering Committee will be established through
Presidential Decree and its composition modified in consultation with the
Bank.The Caucasus Working Group would be responsible for guiding
preparation of the protected area planning activity in the Central
Caucasus ecoregion and the corridor planning activities in the Eastern
Caucasus region, with endorsing the reports, and facilitating their
implementation. The Caucasus Working Group will be formed from the Central
Caucasus Commission, with technical specialists representing the Ministry
of Environment, Departments of Forestry and Protected Areas, Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA), representatives of local governments, and environmental
NGOs. Technical subgroups would be formed for each of three discrete
planning activities (Central Caucasus protected area planning, eastern
Caucasus mountain corridor planning, and eastern corridor floodplain
forest planning), and would be responsible for all field and analytic
studies, consultative workshops, and document preparation. The Caucasus
Working Group will be established through Presidential Decree and its
composition agreed to and modified in consultation with the Bank.A five
member local advisory committee would be established at each of the three
- 5 -



protected areas to advise the DPA on project and park-related activities,
and to ensure that local stakeholder opinions and concerns are heard. The
five-member local advisory committee will include representatives of local
resource user groups, district and village government, local communities,
ethnic groups and NGOs.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of GEF projects elsewhere in the region has been
considered good for capacity-building investments but uncertain overall
due to weak state budget support for biodiversity conservation. The
project has addressed the problem of financial sustainability by designing
the project with activities to promote nature-based tourism, and to
collect user fees to finance the protected areas' basic maintenance costs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Three lessons learned from GEF and Bank projects in the region
are:Projects should be initiated by building capacity for implementing
project activities, and addressing policy changes needed for successful
implementation. During the first year of implementation, the project will
focus in two areas: (i) institutional reform of the Department of
Protected Areas; and (ii) building capacity in implementing project
activities. Projects should have broad support in the government, civil
society, and local communities where the three protected areas are
proposed to be created or expanded. The proposed project is recognized as
a national priority and has the support of central and district government
officials, local communities, and NGOs. Evidence of this support is seen
in that: (i) creation/expansion of the three project protected areas have
been approved by the district governments; (ii) the public meetings held
during the project appraisal were well-attended, and highly supportive of
the project; and (iii) support for the project has been received from
central government individuals, including the President and the Speaker of
the Parliament.GEF projects should develop mechanisms to improve
sustainability. The project addresses this through the development of
tourism opportunities in the protected areas and would assist the local
communities in participating in income generating activities that are
consistent with the protected areas' biodiversity conservation priority.
Analyses of tourism potential, willingness to pay, and estimations of
revenue streams indicate that 70- of non-salary operating costs for the
protected areas could be covered through visitor fees by Year 6.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is classified as Category B.    The
project will have overall positive environmental impact by conserving
biodiversity and improving natural resource use. The project would
improve management practices in the use zones of the protected area to
address the currently unsustainable levels of grazing and timber/fuelwood
harvesting. The benefits of improving natural resource management would
include increased productivity of grazing lands, better protection against
soil erosion, and more sustainable use of biological resources. These
benefits are expected to be realized in the medium to long terms. In the
short term, forest and pasture use in areas which have been over-utilized
would be reduced. The issues covered in the environmental management plan
are: the small-scale construction and/or renovation of national park
- 6 -



infrastructure, including administrative buildings, checkpoints and guard
stations, trails and tourism infrastructure will have minor direct impacts
on flora and fauna. the increase in recreational use of the three national
parks under the project would have minor increases in noise and
disturbance to wildlife and may require refuse collection at frequently
visited sites.the link to the proposed Bank Forestry Development Project
(FY02) will positively contribute to the sustainable forest management
through improved information on flora and fauna in the Caucasus region,
and recommendations how to best integrate biodiversity conservation
objectives into forest management planning and landscape-level zoning for
protected and production areas based on ecological principles.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Phillip Brylski
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: (202)473-7031
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



