E-367
GEORGIA
PROTECTED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment, Environmental Management Plan
1.   Introduction. The Government of Georgia (GoG) has requested that the International
Development Association (the Bank) provide support through the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) for a Protected Areas Development Project. This Project will help the GoG to improve the
conservation and sustainable use of Georgian biodiversity.
2.    The project will: (i) establish three protected areas in eastern Georgia; (ii) facilitate the
creation of a national network of protected areas; (iii) integrate biodiversity conservation into
forestry, range management, and agriculture; (iv) strengthen institutions responsible for
biodiversity conservation programs; (iv) improve public awareness of the values and importance
of Georgian biodiversity; and (v) promote regional / international cooperation for conservation of
biodiversity in the Caucasus region.
3.    The Implementing Agency for the Project is the Georgia Department of Protected Areas.
Financing for Project preparation commenced in March, 1999. Significant analysis and
proposals for Project financing were developed in partnership with the Department of Protected
Areas administrations of three proposed project sites (Vashlovani, Lagodekhi and Tusheti);
NGOs; the scientific community, international experts, and Georgian governmental institutions
(Ministry of Environment). During project preparation, an environmental review identified the
potential impacts of project activities and elaborated environmental review and management plan
to be undertaken during project implementation.
4.    The results of the environmental review and the recommended environmental
management plan were the subject of public consultations held for each protected area site
between June 12 and 14,2000. Comments were recorded in minutes (see Annex 5, Summary of
Consultations; full minutes are available in Georgian from the Project Implementation Unit).
Issues highlighted at the consultations have been incorporated into project design and monitoring
plans. This environmental assessment and management plan satisfies World Bank requirements
for a "Category B" project, as outlined in the Bank's Operational Policy 4.01 "Environmental
Assessment" and is consistent with GoG environmental procedures .
5.    The project is expected to be appraised in June, 2000; presented to the World Bank Board
of Directors in September, 2000 before becoming effective in November 2000.
Summary of Findings and Consultations.
6.    Potential alternative scenarios for this Project include reduced financing for biodiversity
management, or a strict focus on protected areas management. Due to the extensive planning and
investments needs to stabilize the status of biodiversity in the region during this period of
transition, existing government resources and international financing efforts directed to forest
biodiversity will not ensure protection of globally significant biodiversity in the expanded
designated areas. In termns of protecting biodiversity in the Caucasus region, it is unlikely that the
' Building permits from the Ministry of Environment will be required prior to the construction of any national park
infrastructure.



limited expenditures will have a significant impact on continuing damage to these fragile
habitats. The sustainability of the protected areas are also most likely served through the
promotion of well-managed tourism -- for purposes of both public awareness and education as
well as the chance for the protected area administration and local communities to develop the
potential for revenue-generation. To limit the project to the implementation of protected areas
management plans, and reduce technical assistance to the integration of environmental and
biodiversity management principles into the production landscape would ignore one of the
largest threats to Georgian biodiversity-namely the destruction, degradation and fragmentation
of habitat across the country.
7.    The main environmental issues that have been identified under the environmental review
and management plan are (i) the impact of construction of national park infrastructure, including
administrative buildings, checkpoints and guard stations, trails and tourism interpretation
facilities; (ii) the potential increase in recreational use of the national parks; (iii) change in
natural resources management use; and (iv) linkage to the proposed World Bank Forestry
Development Project (expected to begin implementation in 2002).
8.    All project activities are to be integrated into site-specific protected area or regional,
landscape-level management plans, and all project activities will be implemented accordingly.
The environmental management plan (Annex 1 and 2) summarizes the specific mitigation
measures, their costs and implementation arrangements for each environmental issue.
9.    Minutes of the public consultations2 on the draft Environmental Assessment and
Management Plan were held for all three project sites between June 12 and 14, 2000.
2A full summary of the meetings are documented in Annex 3. The full minutes are available in Georgian upon
request from the Project Preparation Unit in Tbilisi, Georgia



GEORGIA
PROTECTED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
L Project Description
10.   This Project will help to improve the conservation and sustainable use of Georgian
biodiversity. The project will: (i) support three protected areas in eastern Georgia; (ii) facilitate
the creation of a national network of protected areas; (iii) integrate biodiversity conservation
into forestry, range management, and agriculture; (iv) strengthen institutions responsible for
biodiversity conservation programs; (iv) improve public awareness of the values and importance
of Georgian biodiversity; and (v) promote regional / international cooperation for conservation of
biodiversity in the Caucasus region.
Project Components:
11. Component A. Support Protected Areas Planning: The project would assist the
Department of Protected Areas, Ministry of Environment (MoE), and Department of Forestry
(DOF), Academy of Sciences and NGOs to develop a representative protected area network plan
for the whole country and to prepare a detailed forest land use plan for the Central Caucasus that
balances forest conservation and utilization.
Al. Preparation of a National Protected Area System Plan: The objective of the Protected
Areas System plan is to provide decision makers with recommendations on the creation of an
ecologically representative network of protected areas to protect and manage the country's
biodiversity, and which balances the needs of its local communities and economic sectors
(e.g. forestry and agriculture). The final plan for the national system of protected areas with
multiple management objectives would be submitted to the appropriate executive and
parliamentary bodies for endorsement. Activities will include:
*  The synthesis of existing information and field studies to fill gaps (biological, geological,
hydrological and cultural systems, ownership and user rights, economic activities, and
legislative information);
*  The development of a systems plan through a broad consultative process, which will
outline network plan objectives, recommendations for boundary and category
gazettement, planning methods, participatory and partnership mechanism for
management and implementation priorities; and
* Public awareness campaign before and after government endorsement of the national
protected area systems plan.
A2. ProtectedArea Planfor Central CaucasusMountains Ecoregion: The Central Caucasus
region is rich in biodiversity and forest resources. The PADP will work closely with the
proposed Forestry Development Project to develop a land use plan for forest conservation
and use in this region - initially focusing on the districts of Ambrolauri, Lentekhi, Oni and
Tsageri. A Central Caucasus Commission backed up by a technical multidisciplinary team



has already been set up (during the preparation of the Forestry Development Project) for the
purposes of preparing model land-use plans for the management of all existing natural
resources, including both the protected and forested areas available for sustainable
management. Areas identified for protected area status during this process would eventually
be reallocated from the Department of Forestry to Department of Protected Areas. This
project would co-finance:
*  Technical assistance and field studies to collect and synethesize necessary information;
*  Analysis of the opportunities and constraints for sustainable natural resources
management in the Central Caucasus Mountain region;
*  Economic and social analysis of "highest and best use" of the region's natural resources;
*  Consultation and the preparation of a general protected area plan for the region with
respect to protected areas, wildlife corridors and land use planning.
12.   Component B. Promote Conservation and Use of Biodiversity Inside and Outside of
ProtectedAreas: The project would assist the Department of Protected Areas, Ministry of
Environment (MoE), and Department of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture and local
municipalities to address biodiversity issues both inside and outside of protected areas.
B]. Implement Management Plansfor Tusheti National Park, Vashlovani National Park
and the Expanded Lagodeckhi Nature Reserve: Management plans or guidelines have been
prepared for three protected areas in Georgia: Tusheti National Park (1 15,800 ha),
Vashlovani National Park (44,796 ha) and the expanded Lagodeckhi Nature Reserve
(25,400 ha). The project would finance the implementation of management plans for all
three protected areas. The draft management plans include the following activities to be
financed under the project:
o Support for park and facilities management - including infrastructure such as park and
reserve boundaries, administration and visitor buildings, guard stations, roadway gates
and checkpoints, trails and tourist shelter and interpretation signs. The project would
also fund the removal of dilapidated structures currently found within the proposed
national parks;
* Support Department of Protected Areas professional development in protected areas
management - including training in such areas as tourism management, ecological
management and monitoring, revenue generation for both park and local communities,
rangering and conflict management;
* Public awareness activities - focussing on local communities and tourists. Activities
financed include the development of audio-visual materials and brochures, teacher
trainings, and a small grants program for small-scale conservation activities by local
communities or individuals;
* Monitoring and applied research to fill in major gaps in existing information on
biodiversity within the protected areas (which will also serve to assist in protected area
zoning), to guide park management and to evaluate the results of management options.



Priority inventories, research and monitoring activities include, inter alia, the
development of an information base (resource maps, vegetation types, animal
migration routes, etc), assessment of grazing lands carrying capacity and pasture
monitoring, monitoring of visitor impacts and applied studies.
Socio-economic monitoring to inform management plan implementation. The project
would also provide professional development and training in social assessments and
human ecology studies.
mU. Baseline data
13.   Biodiversity and Threats: Georgia, in the western-central Caucasus, extends across
several climatic zones of the Caucasus isthmus, ranging from humid subtropical to alpine, within
a relatively small area (69,700 sq km). Its territory covers the four main biogeographic regions,
including:
* the Colchic region of western Georgia, bounded by the Black Sea coast to the west, with a
landscape predominantly comprised of lowland subtropical forests;
- the Caucasian or Kavkasioni Region which covers the subalpine forests, subalpine, alpine
and subnival plant communities and landscape of the Great Caucasus;
* the Caucasus Minor region with its landscape of grasslands, subalpine meadows, mountain
steppes (and occasional forested land and semiarid steppe) of the Trialeti and Meskheti
mountain ridges as well as the south-eastern foothills of the Trialeti ridge;
* The Mtvaris (Kura) region, including the Iori uplands and the Lower Kartli, consisting of arid
and semi-arid landscapes.
14.   With thirteen climatic zones and 23 soil-climatic zones within such a small land area,
Georgia possesses globally significant biodiversity. In addition, Georgia's location between Asia
and Europe, the Black Sea and the Caspian, makes it a natural funnel for annual bird migrations.
In the project region between the Caucasus Major and Minor ranges of central and eastern
Georgia, the flora and fauna of at least three biographic regions converge, resulting in high levels
of biodiversity. The region contains species typical of Europe (e.g. bear, lynx, chamois, red
deer), Central Asia (e.g. Caucasian tur or mountain goat, leopard), and the Middle East (e.g.
hyaena, gazelle).
15.   The Georgian forests of the Caucasus Mountains contain over 200 plant community
associations, and 120- species of tree, 250 bushes, and 4,5000 vascular plants. Among vascular
plants, nine percent are endemic,to Georgia and 14% to the Caucasus region. There are 572
vertebrate species (348 species of birds, 95 mammals, 52 reptiles, 13 amphibians and 64 fishes).
The diverse and threatened large mammal fauna include three species of wild goats, chamois, red
and roe deer and their predators, including wolf, lynx, wild cats and possibly leopard. Some of
these species (e.g. wild goats, deer, wolf) undertake large scale annual migrations, increasing
their susceptibility to habitat loss and fragmentation, over hunting and competition with domestic
sheep for forage.



16.   Despite the large percentage (40%) of Georgian territory still forested, significant
declines in available habitat threaten some of Georgia's most distinctive biodiversity. The most
important threats include:
i. Illegal hunting and habitat loss and fragmentation: Censuses have revealed dramatic declines
in the numbers of carnivores and ungulates over the last 10 years. The causes identified
include overhunting and habitat loss. The Caucasian tur (Capra caucasica), a mountain goat
endemic to the Trancaucasus region, has declined by 50% between 1985 and 1994. The
bezoar (Capra aegagrus), a wild relative of the domestic goat, is nearing extirpation from
Georgia and today numbers fewer than 100 individuals in the Lesser Caucasus. Chamois
(Rupicapra rupicapra) have declined from an estimated 6,000 individuals in 1985 to
approximately 1,000. Red deer (Cervus elaphus) have declined three-fold in census areas and
the entire Georgian population may be less than 1,500 individuals. Lynx (Ly  lynx)
numbered 500 or more individuals in 1990 - but today is estimated at only 160 individuals.
ii. Unsustainable range management: The rangelands (alpine meadows and lowland steppe
communities) of the Eastern Caucasus have been overgrazed by sheep. Unsustainable range
management, usually due to overstocking, has been intensified starting in the late 1980s.
Currently, more than 250,000 sheep are herded seasonally between the alpine pastures at
Tusheti (4000m elevation) and summer steppe pastures on the Iori floodplain (200m). The
subalpine meadows, overgrazing and associated disturbance is contributing to declines in the
Caucasian goat (Capra cylindricornis) and chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra). In the lowland
grassland of southeastern Georgia where the same domestic sheep move to winter pastures,
sever overgrazing is significantly impacting the endemic flora and fauna of steppe
communities. Such unsustainable grazing practices contributed importantly to the extirpation
of gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa) from eastern Georgia.
iii. Unsustainable forestry practices (conversion / loss of habitat and overharvesting): Under the
former Soviet Union, Georgia obtained up to 2.5 m3 of timber annually from Russia, leaving
much of the country's forested areas relatively pristine. Independence has forced Georgia to
rely increasingly on its own forest resources for industrial purposes, while the recent energy
crisis has led to uncontrolled fuelwood harvesting. Together, legal cuttings plus illegal
harvesting and uncontrolled fuelwood collection exceeds the annual allowable cut by some
estimates. Easily accessible forests such as those in mountain river valleys and riparian areas
are in particular threatened. The conversion of elm (Alnus barbata) forests to agricultural
land has depleted riverine forests, especially in the Trialeti and Meskheti ridges of the Lesser
Caucasus. Unsustainable forest practices have led to the destruction of some forest types
previously common in Georgia such as those previously dominated by Quercus longipes and
Ulmus suberosa.
17.   Project Sites: The project will finance the implementation of management plans for three
new or expanded protected areas in eastern Georgia: Tusheti National Park and Batsara Nature
Reserve, Vaslovani National Park and Lagodekhi Nature Reserve.
* The proposed Vashlovani National Park is located in the Iori Plateau. Currently, Vashlovani
Nature Reserve covers 8,034 hectares. Local and regional governments have endorsed the
establishment of the Vashlovani National Park, which would cover an estimated 27,870 ha



* (plus 8,664 ha nature reserve), which entails the transfer of management responsibilities from
the Department of Forests and Ministry of Agriculture/ local administrations. The adjacent
Multiple Use Protected Areas (20,000 ha) would be managed by local administrations and
the Department of Forestry.
The proposed Tusheti National Park and Batsara Nature Reserve. Currently, Tusheti and
Batsara Nature Reserve cover a total of 15,432 ha. Local and regional governments have
endorsed the transfer of Department of Forest and Ministry of Agriculture/local
administration lands to National Park status or an expansion of existing Nature Reserves
(totaling 88,000 ha for Tusheti National Park, and 9,431 ha for Batsara / Babneuri Nature
Reserve). Protected Landscape Area status would be granted to 27,800 ha, and will be
administered by local administrations.
The Lagodekhi Nature Reserve (currently 17,932 ha). Lagodekhi Nature Reserve is
proposed to be expanded to 29,031 ha, with an additional 7,596 ha to be zoned as Managed
Reserve or Multiple Use.
18.   Data: Significant progress has been made in recent years in compiling information on the
status of the Georgian environment, in particular its biodiversity. The Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan (BSAP), recently completed, was a direct result of much of this data collection. The
BSAP identifies the project regions as centers of Georgian biodiversity, and the project activities
as the highest priority for improving the protection of threatened ecosystems.
19.   Recognizing that more information will be needed, the project will promote several
activities to further the knowledge base on Georgian biodiversity and its threats in the project
region:
* Component A: National Protected Areas Systems Planning: At the national level, existing
information will be synthesized and field studies undertaken to fill gaps. Information on
biological, geological, hydrological and cultural systems, as well as ownership and user
rights and economic activities is expected to be compiled as a result of this study.
* Component A: Protected Area Plan for the Central Caucasus Mountains Ecoregion: More
detailed information such as,detailed forest and biodiversity surveys, economic and social
analysis will be collected.
* Component B: Implementation of Management Plans: The project will finance monitoring
and applied research to fill major gaps in the existing information on the biodiversity of the
protected areas. This will not only inform decision-makers on the appropriate land-use zone
boundaries, but also to guide park management and evaluate the results of management
actions.
The project will fund improved surveys for target species, selected on the basis of their
importance to the ecosystem. Expected outputs include resource maps of project sites,
including vegetation types, elevations, animal migration routes, sightings/ location of key
species, and detailed flora and fauna inventories. Pasturelands carrying capacity will be
assessed, while numbers of sheep and pasture health will be continuous monitoring during



the project. In addition, applied research will include, inter alia, the determination of basic
properties of the threatened and endangered plant and animal populations, and plant
community studies.
m. Main Environmental and Social Issues, Environmental Management Plan and
Monitoring
20.   The environmental issues that have been identified under the environmental management
plan are (i) the impact of construction of national park infrastructure, including administrative
buildings, checkpoints and guard stations, trails and tourism interpretation facilities; (ii) the
potential increase in recreational use of the national parks; (iii) change in natural resources
management use; and (iv)linkage to the proposed World Bank Forestry Development Project
(expected to begin implementation in 2002).
21.  All project activities are to be integrated into site-specific protected area or regional,
landscape-level management plans, and all project activities will be implemented accordingly.
However, the environmental management plan (Annex 2) summarizes the specific measures
which are proposed to mitigate the project's potential environmental impacts.
22.   A. Impacts of Infrastructural Investments: During the course of the project, financing
will be provided for infrastructure necessary to establish and manage the three project sites, and
achieve the project's objective of biodiversity conservation and the promotion of sustainable
development. The proposed infrastructure includes the demarcation and marking of park and
reserve boundaries, the construction of administration centers and/or visitor centers, guard
stations, roadway gates, checkpoints, tourist shelters, trails and interpretive signage.
Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: The current infrastructure at the proposed
Vashlovani National Park consists of a small residence and former headquarters which was
destroyed by fire, both located at the edge of the nature reserve. After the National Park is
legally established, the project would construct an administration/visitor center. This
center is to be constructed within that part of the park identified for administration
purposes in the draft management plan for the National Park. This site is currently a
pastureland where grazing pressures have been high. The site is outside of the nature
reserve. The small-scale construction of infrastructure under the project will have minor
direct impacts on vegetation, mainly through the conversion of less than 0.2 hectares of
grassland to developed uses.
At the proposed Tusheti and Lagodeckhi National Parks, the administration/visitor centers
will be located in existing buildings which would be renovated under the project.
At all three sites, guard stations, roadway gates and checkpoints, tourist shelters and trails
will be constructed or renovated. None of these construction activities will have
significant direct impacts on the environment.
Mitigation Measure: The administration of each National Park or Nature Reserve shall be
responsible for obtaining the required environmental permit before the construction of any
protected area infrastructure. Flora and fauna inventories shall assist in the determination
of the siting of all infrastructure and trails to minimize the impact of the construction and
of associated human activity. The infrastructure will be designed to blend harmoniously



with the traditional Georgian landscape. Local communities shall be kept informed of all
construction activities if it is determined that infrastructure will be placed in proximity to
community settlements.
23.   B. Increase in recreational use ofproject sites (nationalparks): The sustainability of the
project sites (National Parks and Nature Reserve) will be served through the promotion of
managed tourism -- for purposes of both public awareness and education as well as the chance
for the protected area administration and local communities to develop the potential for revenue-
generation.
Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: Currently, few national or international tourists
visit the three proposed protected areas, mostly due to the fact that (a) very little
infrastructure is provided for the general tourist; (b) little information or public awareness
both nationally and internationally exists; and (c) the current Nature Reserve status at
Lagodekhi, Vashlovani and Tusheti does not allow for general tourism.
The promotion of sustainable eco-tourism in Georgia's protected areas, the concurrent
improvement of tourism infrastructure in and around the project sites, as well as the
expansion of the protected areas and change in protected area category to ones which allow
for tourism is expected to lead to an increase in visitor used of these areas. These numbers
are expected to rise slowly, and the visitor use will be managed to minimize its impact on
the environment. Overall, the improved management of the three protected areas and the
revenues generated from tourism for improved management will have environmentally
positive impact. Minor potential impacts could include:
* Impact due to increase in numbers - increased noise and disturbance to wildlife,
increased waste, potential for social impact on local communities.
- Impact due to under-management of tourists and their facilities, or tourists disobeying
posted regulations - overuse of campsites or trails, harvesting of live wood for
campfires, purposeful disturbance of wildlife, accidental fires, harvesting of rare or
endangered wildflowers or non-timber forest products, lack of fencing or signs keeping
tourists out of fragile areas, and lack of maintenance of trails leading to erosion on
slopes.
Mitigation Measures: Overall, the improved management of the three protected areas will
have environmentally positive impacts. To further enhance the positive impact, the
administration of each National Park or Nature Reserve shall be responsible for managing
the impact of increased number of recreational visitors, and will be given training and
technical assistance under the project to develop the skills necessary for effective tourism
management. The environmental management plans, updated yearly, will have specific
components detailing how the protected area administration will ensure visitors have
minimal negative impact on both the ecosystem and local communities. Tourism
infrastructure will be sited after initial inventory surveys have been completed to ensure a
minimum impact on biodiversity. The engineering design of all infrastructure will ensure
that waste is appropriately managed (waste bins and appropriate technology for toilet
facilities (leachfields, organic composting, septic tanks to be determined during
engineering design). Monitoring protocols will be developed early in the project in order to



allow for the monitoring of visitors and their impact on the flora and fauna within the
national park. This will provide park management a continual feedback on the results of
their ecological and tourism management interventions. Local communities will be
periodically consulted to ensure that visitors are not causing unforeseen problems.
24.   C. Change in natural resources management or use: The creation or expansion of the
three protected areas will result in changes in land use. The environmental impact of the
resultant change in natural resources management and/or use will be positive as the protected
areas' management plans for ecological restoration and conservation are effectively
implemented. Protected areas management will need to work closely with local administrations
and communities to ensure that the social impacts of land use changes are beneficial in the long-
term, and that short-term impacts are minimized.
Vashlovani - Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: In Vashlovani, the management or
use of state lands currently managed by the Department of Forestry land (which are remote
from populated areas) will not change as a result of the transfer of management
responsibility from the DoF to the DPA - as neither the DOF nor local communities have
been utilizing these forests. MoA pastures which have traditionally been leased to private
citizens are considered overgrazed and degraded for both wildlife and sheep. Under the
project, pasturelands and leasing will be regulated, restored and monitored. Some
traditional pastures will be closed, and grazing will be permitted only in the traditional use
and multiple use zones at regulated densities. Hunting will continue to be prohibited in this
area.
Reducing the pressure on the already overgrazed pasturelands within the boundaries of
Vashlovani National Park will lead to an improvement in the ecological health of the
region. The National Park administration will have to balance the ecological and socio-
economic implications of the proposed change by improving the health of degraded
pasturelands in order to benefit not only the wildlife but also the migratory shepherds who
winter in Vaschlovani - who see the potential for trading in "quantity" for improved
"quality" of pasture land.
Vashlovani -Mitigation Measures: The impacts on natural resources are considered
environmentally beneficial. However, the park administration will provide the shepherds
with basic extension services to ensure pastureland health under the new management
system, and will also provide some basic veterinary assistance.
Lagodekhi - Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: The forested areas to be transferred
from the DoF to the DPA is considered degraded from years of illegal cutting and
poaching. Once transferred, the land will be re-categorized as managed reserve of multiple
use zone. Ministry of Agriculture land, which has been managed essentially by local
administrations, will be re-categorized either as Nature Reserve or multiple use zone
depending on the outcomes of consultations with sheepherders in the northernmost section
of the proposed expanded reserve.
By categorizing the DoF forested land area as a multiple use zone or managed reserve, the
Lagodekhi administration is recognizing the already degraded condition of the locale's
forest habitat as well as the need for timber and fuelwood by the local communities - and



recognizing that neither local communities nor wildlife will benefit in the long-run unless
the area is managed sustainably. Grazing will be permitted only in the traditional use and
multiple use zones at regulated densities.
Reducing the level of grazing in the northern sections of the Nature Reserve will reduce
disturbances to wildlife there, in particular the mountain goat. However, the National Park
administration will have to balance the transitionally socio-economic implications of the
closing down traditional pasturelands.
Lagodekhi -Mitigation Measures: The impacts are considered environmentally beneficial.
However, for ensure socio-economic benefits, the local administration has agreed to
allocate new grazing leases to shepherds in replacement of existing leases within the park
boundaries.
Tusheti - Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: The forested areas to be transferred
from the DoF to the DPA is considered degraded from years of illegal cutting and
poaching. Once transferred, the land will be re-categorized as managed zone. Ministry of
Agriculture land, which has been managed essentially by local administrations, will be re-
categorized either as a National Park or a Protected Landscape Area.
By categorizing the DoF forested land area as a managed zone, the Tusheti administration
is recognizing the need for local community use of the natural resource, and is already
planning on initiating a process of resource restoration and the initiation of a community
forest management scheme. Similarly to Vashlovani, MoA/local administration pastures
which have traditionally been leased to private citizens will be transferred to DPA and
regulated, but local administrations are guaranteeing the transfer of existing leases to other
lands outside of the parks.
Reducing the level of grazing in degraded areas will provide improved habitat for
biodiversity. Restoration efforts under the project will also help to restore previously
overgrazed areas which are currently in danger of serious erosion. Social impacts of
transferring existing grazing leases to other areas will have to be carefully planned and
monitored during the transition.
Tusheti -Mitigation Measures: The impacts are considered environmentally beneficial.
For socio-economic purposes, the local administration has agreed to allocated new grazing
leases to shepherds in replacement for existing leases within the park boundaries.
25.   D. Linkage with the Forest Development Project:
Existing Conditions and Impact Analysis: The Central Caucasus Planning Region is
currently without a system of national parks and other protected areas, which is an
important contribution to sustainable forest management. The project would finance
cooperation of specialists with the Department of Forestry to: (i) identify areas of high
biodiversity within the Central Caucasus Planning region which merit special protection
which could best be met through the creation of new protected areas, (ii) provide
recommendations for integrating biodiversity conservation objectives into the forest
management planning process, and (iii) work with local communities to build awareness in



forest conservation and to understand how protected areas may assist with generating
income for local communities. These impacts are considered beneficial.
Mitigation Measures: The impacts are considered environmentally beneficial and require
no mitigation measures.
IV. Alternative Scenario
26.   Potential alternative scenarios for this Project include reduced financing for biodiversity
management, or a strict focus on protected areas management.
27.   Due to the extensive planning and investments needs to stabilize the status of biodiversity
in the region during this period of transition, existing government resources and international
financing efforts directed to forest biodiversity will not ensure protection of globally significant
biodiversity in the expanded designated areas. In terms of protecting biodiversity in the Caucasus
region, it is unlikely that these limited expenditures will have a significant impact on continuing
damage to these fragile habitats. The sustainability of the protected areas are also most likely
-served through the promotion of well-managed tourism -- for purposes of both public awareness
and education as well as the chance for the protected area administration and local communities
to develop the potential for revenue-generation,
28.   To limit the project to the implementation of protected areas management plans, and
reduce technical assistance to the integration of environmental and biodiversity management
principles into the production landscape would ignore one of the largest threats to Georgian
biodiversity-namely the destruction, degradation and fragmentation of habitat across the
country.



Annex 1
Environmental Management Plan: Georgia Protected Areas Development Project
Table 1: Impact Descriptions
Mitigation
Measure
Issue                                              Description                                 Number
A. Construction of national park          Protected area infrastructure will be necessary to establish and manage
infrastructure, including administration  the three project sites, and achieve the project's objective of biodiversity
building, guard stations, roadway gates and  conservation and the promotion of sustainable development (an overall
checkpoints, tourism infrastructure and trails   positive environmental impact).
The small-scale construction of infrastructure under the project will have
minor, short-term direct impacts on vegetation and local species - mainly
due to soil excavation, dust and noise.
B. Increase in recreational use of project sites   Potential impacts could include:                                 2
(Vashlovani National Park, Tusheti National
Park and Lagodekhi Nature Reserve)         * Direct impact due to increase in numbers - increased noise and
disturbance to wildlife, increased waste, potential for social impact on
local communities.
* Direct impact due to under-management of tourists and their facilities,
or tourists disobeying posted regulations - overuse of campsites or
trails, harvesting of live wood for campfires, purposeful disturbance of
wildlife, accidental fires, harvesting of rare or endangered wildflowers
or non-timber forest products, lack of fencing or signs keeping tourists
out of fragile areas, lack of maintenance of trails leading to erosion on
slopes.
C. Changes in resource management and use   The environmental impact of the resultant change in natural resources  None
management and/or use will be positive as the protected areas' management
plans for ecological restoration and conservation are effectively
implemented.



D. Linkage to proposed forestry project  The project would have positive environmental impacts by contributing to  None
sustainable forest management through recommendations on the creation of
protected areas and integrating biodiversity conservation objectives into the
forest management planning



Annex 1
Environmental Management Plan: Georgia Protected Areas Development Project
Table 2: Environmental Mitigation Plan (Timing, Institutional Responsibility, Cost)
#t     Mitigation Measure                                                   Phase         Institutional     Cost
______ _____ Responsibility _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1      a) Siting and construction: The administration of Each National Park or    Construction   DPAA/ MOE  No additional cost
Nature Reserve shall be responsible for obtaining the required   only
environmental permit before the construction of any protected area
infrastructure. Estimated by 6/30/01
Flora and fauna inventories shall assist in the determination of the  Construction   DPAA        $150,000 inventories3
siting of all infrastructure and trails to minimize the impact not only of  only                 $45,000 TA facility
the construction but of the of the human activity (guard settlements or                          siting
daily administration) in fragile areas. Estimated by 4/30/01
The timing of all construction and as well as the location of any  Construction   DPAA           No additional cost
fencing shall take into consideration the migratory movements and  only
breeding cycles of identified species.
b) Architectural design: All infrastructure will be designed to blend  Construction   DPAA / CS     No additional cost
harmoniously with the traditional Georgian landscape. Estimated by  only        architect
4/30/01
All phases    DPA / PIU        $18,0004
c) Public consultation: Local communities shall be kept informed of all   (continuous)
construction activities if it is determined that infrastructure will be
placed in proximity to community settlements. Initiation 10/1/00
2      a) The administration of each National Park or Nature Reserve shall be  All phases  DPAA             No additional cost5
responsible for managing the impact of increased number of        (continuous)
recreational visitors.
Staff will be given significant training and technical assistance under  All phases  DPAA        $35,000 TA training
3 Cost includes baseline flora and fauna inventories of the entire National Park / Reserves to be used for management planning.
4Lncludes workshop and staff costs for consultations over management plans (which include infrastmcture planning)
5 Part of everyday job of park rangers and operations and maintenance of National Parks/Reserves.



the project to develop the skills necessary for effective tourism  (continuous)
management. Initiated 1/30/01
The environmental management plans, up-dated yearly, will have  All phases    DPAA / CS mgt  No additional cod
specific components detailing how the protected area administration  (continuous)  planning experts
will ensure visitors have minimal negative impact on both the
ecosystem and local communities. Yearly
b) Tourism infrastructure will be sited after initial inventory and animal    Construction  DPAA  $150,000 inventories
behavioral surveys have been completed to ensure a minimum impact   only                   $45,000 TA siting
on biodiversity. Estimated by 4/30/.01
c) Waste and toilet facilities will be provided and managed. In place by    Construction  DPAA /  $60,000 installation
8/30/01                                                      & operations  engineers /     $5,000 maintenance
rangers
d) Visitor monitoring protocols will be developed early in the project in   Continuous   DPAA / local    $75,000 visitor impact
order to allow for the monitoring of not only the numbers of tourists,     administrations   monitoring
but also their impact on the flora and fauna within the national park.
Estimated by 8/30/01
e) Local communities will be periodically consulted to ensure that visitors  Continuous    DPAA / local    $18,000
are not causing unforeseen problems. Initiated by 9/1/01                   administrations
6Part of normal management planning process.



Annex 2:
Environmental Monitoring Plan: Georgia Protected Areas Development Project
#    Parameter Monitored                              Where                 When                        How
Siting and construction:
*  Location of rare /endangered species; breeding    Potential infrastructure   Before identification of site   Inventories, surveys
locations; sensitive habitats (baseline)    sites                  (by 5/15/01)                (DPAA and TA)
*  Impacts to vegetation (construction)        Infrastructure sites    During construction; during   Inventories, surveys
operations                 (DPAA and TA)
*  Soil compaction and/or erosion               Infrastructure sites
During construction; during   Surveys
operations
*  Litter                                       Infrastructure sites
Continual                  General conditions
2    Visitor Management
*  Flora and fauna disturbances                 Entire National Park,    Continuous                Surveys; behavioral
especially near trails                            studies, Rangers in field;
and campsites                                      Ranger reports, incidence
reports.
*  Soil compaction and/or erosion               Entire park, especially   Continuous               Surveys
on trails and near
tourism infrastructure
*  Incidence of accidental firs                 Entire park            Continuous                  Ranger reports
_   *   Litter and sanitary conditions          Entire National Park   Continuos                   Ranger reports.






Annex 3: Environmental Management, Mitigation and Monitoring Implementation Schedule
PROJECT ACTIVITY                         Year and
_ ___________________________________    Quarters       3        4       5 _6       _
_ _  __-_    1 263|4 1|2|3|4   1|3|4 11213|4 1|2|3|4   2 3 4
I Protected Area Protection, Management and    f
Monitoring
la. Management Planning and Implementation
I _Finalize and update management plans
Annual review of annual management plans  1 I   EKE   HU             EU
(USPS and consultation workshops)                *       *- E--   *-E *E-
Management implementation
b. Monitoting program                    _     I I I I                       _
_  Baseline surveys                                     I
- -Applied research
Monitoring
c. Infrastructure Development and Equipment
Design and preparation
Environmental permitting
Construction activities
Construction of compost sewage system   _
I(Tusheti)III
Hiking trails (includes installation of interpretive
Isigns)
d. Institutional Development             1
Training (technical, guard, conflict resolution&   1                 I   F
_ WUI IR                                                                         ..



I



Annex 4: Other Information
Institutional Arrangements: The Department of Protected Areas Administrations for each of the
projected areas will be responsible for the environmental management and monitoring of all project
activities. Technical assistance, training and management reports, flora and fauna inventories, socio-
economic information and information gleaned from public consultations will feed into annual
updates of protected areas environmental management plans which will be subject to reviews by
international experts every second year.
Each National Park will be under the authority of a National Park Director who will authorize
activities and expenditures for National Park management activities. A Local Advisory Council will
be created for the allocation of a small grants program for biodiversity-friendly development
activities, and for issues related to zoning, boundaries and natural resource use by local
communities. In addition, project activities financed by the Project (GEF) will need clearance from
the Project Implementation Unit, the Project's Steering Committee and ultimately the World Bank
(clearance for activities, Terms of Reference under standard procurement guidelines).
Institutional Strengthening: The overall objective of this project is to raise the institutional capacity
of the Government of Georgia to conserve and sustainably manage their natural environment. All
equipment purchases, training and consultant services to be financed under the Project (outlined in
the Project Appraisal Document and Project Implementation Plan) are done so with the ultimate aim
to managing, monitoring or mitigating existing environmental threats to Georgia's natural resources.






Annex 5: Summary of Public Consultations
Date andLocation: The environmental assessment and recommended environmental action plan
were introduced and discussed in a public form in all three of the project regions -- Dedoplistskaro
District (Vashlovani National Park) in June 12, 2000; Akhmeta District (Tusheti National Park) on
June 12, 2000 and Lagodekhi District (Lagodekhi Nature Reserve) on June 13, 2000.
Agenda and Presentors: The Director of the Project Preparation Unit (Paata Shanshishvili) and the 3
Directors of the project sites made the presentations and facilitated the meetings according to the
following agenda:
A. Project briefing and update
B. Identified Environmental Issues:
(i) The impact of construction of protected areas infrastructure, including administrative buildings,
checkpoints and guard stations, trails and tourism interpretation facilities;
(ii) The potential increase in recreational/tourism use of the national parks;
(iii) Change in natural resources management use; and
(iv) linkage to the proposed World Bank Forestry Development Project.
C. Questions and Answers about Project
D. Discussion
Invilees and Attendees: The Workshops in all three districts attended over the 100 individuals, who
represented elected and appointed local governments including juridical, agricultural, cultural/
educational divisions, environmental, forestry, protected areas local administrations, teachers, youth
groups, farmers, shepherds, businesses, NGO's, etc. Specific names of those invited and those who
attended are listed in Annex 6.
Summary ofMeeting Minutes: Full meeting minutes are available from the Project Implementation
Unit in Tbilisi, Georgia. In general, participants of the workshops supported the results of the
environmental review and the recommended environmental management plan and expressed
satisfaction with proposed mitigation measures and indicated that they meet regional and country's
requirements.
Specific recommendations proposedfor the project were:
For Dedoplistskaro District/ Vashlovani Protected Areas:
- Local community participation and project monitoring mechanisms should be improved;



-  Single administration should be authorized to manage Vashlovani Nature Reserve and National
Park as well as Natural Monuments located with in the Dedoplistskaro district.
-  The Vashlovani Protected Areas administration should have full authority to manage natural
resources and visitors, as well as control privet firms and other involved in management of
protected areas groups in order to maintain integrity of the protected areas.
-  With in the Dedoplistskaro district Tushetian shepherds should be offered altemative winter
pastures and compensations for sheep farm facilities that will be removed form the territory of
the Vashlovani National Park. (Some participants were against of offering any alternative pasture
for Tushetians with in the Dedoplistskaro district).
For Akhmeta District/ Tusheti Protected Areas:
-  Single administration should be authorized to manage Tusheti Nature Reserve and National Park;
-  With in the boundaries of Tusheti Protected Landscape project should support municipal
services;
-  Negotiation of pasture altematives for Tushetian shepherds in Vashlovani should take in
consideration constitutional and legal rites of individuals on private property and lend lees
regulation (some participants suggested not to accept any winter pasture altematives and
compensations by Dedoplistskaro authorities and retain grasslands in proposed Vashlovani
National Park).
For Lagodekhi District/ Lagodekhi:
- Two recommendations were suggested: (i) more forest and alpine meadows should be included
in Lagodekhi Nature reserve; and (ii) because of hardships and lack of fuel wood, less forests
should be accommnodated under proposed expansion of the Reserve.
All participants expressed hope that project implementation will be started soon and showed good
will to cooperate and support protected areas development.



