Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22166-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION (US$8.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR THE
PROTECTED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 3, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
GEL 1.0 = US$0.49
US$1.0 = GEL 2.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSAP         Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
COP          Conference of the Parties
DPA          Department of Protected Areas
DoF          Department of Forestry
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FDP          Forestry Development Project
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GEL          Georgian Lari
GIS          Geographic Information System
GOE          Government-owned Enterprises
GoG          Government of Georgia
IDA          International Development Agency
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
IPRSP        Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MoE          Ministry of Environment
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
PADP         Protected Areas Development Project
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
PPU          Project Preparation Unit
SA           Special Account
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
USNPS        United States National Park Service
WWF          World Wildlife Fund for Nature
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Phillip Brylski



GEORGIA
PROTECTED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      21
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    25
2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             26
2. Other                                                                               26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          43
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis (GEF)                                                  45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             69
Annex 11: Social Assessment and Stakeholder Participation Plan                            71
MAP(S)



GEORGIA
Protected Areas Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Date: May 3, 2001                                  Team Leader: Phillip Brylski
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor         Sector Manager/Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P048791                                Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                       Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 8.7
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         1.45           0.00          1.45
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDA FUND                        8.00           12.00         20.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     4.96            3.74          8.70
GOVERNMENT OF UNITED STATES                                     0.00            0.15          0.15
Total:                                                         14.42           15.88         30.30
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS
Address: Chavchavadze Avenue 84, Tbilisi
Tel: (995-32) 233340                Fax:                  Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY  -----T-2002       2003        2004      2005       2006       2007
Annual    1.50        2.30       2.80        0.80      0.70       0.60
Cumulative    1.50        3.80       6.60       7.40       8.10      8.70
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD 7A- R= bbFt. 2bO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to conserve Georgian biodiversity through the creation of three
ecologically and socially sustainable protected areas in forest ecosystems, and to build capacity for
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the production landscapes which connect them. The
project would (i) support protected areas planning in the Central and Eastern Caucasus; (ii)
establish protected areas management and build awareness of biodiversity conservation at three
sites in the Eastern Caucasus; and (iii) reorganize and strengthen the Department of Protected
Areas to conserve and manage biodiversity. The project is consistent with the GEF Operational
Program for biodiversity conservation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators of project impact are:
(a) Protected Area Plan for the Central Caucasus forest ecosystems supported by local
communities and adopted by Government;
(b) Population censuses of key target species show stable or increasing numbers in 2 of the lasi
four years of the project;
(c) Implementation of corridor plans on forest and pasture lands linking protected areas;
(d) Recovery, through natural regeneration under improved management systems, of overgraze d
alpine and steppe habitats;
(e) Social indicators monitored at project sites show continued support for protected areas;
(f) Revenue from tourism and resource use covers at least 70% of non-salary protected area
operating expenses by Year 6.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE        Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/22/97
The conservation of Georgia's rich biological diversity and sustainable use of its natural
resources, especially of its forests, is one of the CAS objectives. The CAS identifies the propcsed
Protected Areas Development Project and proposed IDA Forestry credit as tools to assist
Government achieving this objective. The project will also support the CAS objective of private
sector rural development through the provision of technical assistance to firms and individuals to
provide nature-based tourism and develop alternative conservation-linked income generating
activities.
-2-



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Georgia, a mountainous country covering 70,000 km with a population of 5.5 million people, is
situated between the south slope of the Caucasus Mountains, the east coast of the Black Sea and
the northern edge of the Turkish Anatolia plain. Forests cover 40% of the country (2.8 million
hectares), largely in the Greater Caucasus Mountains (Georgia's northern border), the Lesser
Caucasus (its southern border), and in intervening lowlands and foothills. The principal landscapes
of the Caucasus include foothill and mountain forests and subalpine meadows of the Greater and
Lesser Caucasus; treeless mountain upland plateaus of the lesser Caucasus; humid lowland forests
of westem Georgia, and the arid steppe and deserts of eastern Georgia.
The project region, between the Caucasus Major and Minor mountain ranges of central and
eastern Georgia, lies at a crossroad where the flora and fauna of at least three biogeographic
provinces converge, resulting in high levels of biodiversity. In this region are found species
typical of Europe (e.g., bear, lynx, wolf, chamois, red deer), Central Asia (e.g., Caucasian tur or
mountain goat, leopard), and the Middle East regions (e.g., hyena, gazelle); many of these species
are threatened elsewhere in their ranges. The varied terrain and climatic conditions contribute to
a diversity of ecosystems and species. There are 572 vertebrate species (348 species of birds, 95
mammals, 52 reptiles, 13 amphibians, and 64 fishes).
The Georgian forests of the Caucasus Mountains contain over 200 plant community associations,
and 120 species of trees, and 250 bushes. They include rich deciduous forests at lower elevations
of oak, beech, lime, sweet chestnut, hornbeam, hazelnut and walnut, and conifer forests and alpine
habitats at higher elevations. In eastern Georgia, forest ecosystems include threatened alluvial
floodplain forest and pistachio woodland. Among its 4,500 species of vascular plants, nine
percent are endemic to Georgia and 14 percent are endemic to the Caucasus region.
The Caucasus region has been identified by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) as one of
the Global 200 Ecoregions using selection criteria of species richness, levels of endemism,
taxonomic uniqueness, unusual evolutionary phenomena, and global rarity of major habitat types.
It has also been identified as an Endemic Bird Area, with several bird species and subspecies
endemic to the region. The Caucasus region also harbors several wild close relatives of domestic
food plants such as wild rye, wheat, barley, millet, wild pears, cherry, and over 200 varieties of
grapes as well as at least nine important domestic animal breeds, including the Tusheti sheep,
Tusheti horse, and the Caucasian sheep dog.
The project addresses conservation activities defined as priorities in the Georgia national
biodiversity strategy, prepared with GEF support. The project will support in-situ conservation
and sustainable use by strengthening and expanding protected areas in the Caucasus Mountains
and by promoting forest management in the surrounding production landscape that is consistent
with biodiversity objectives. The project is consistent with the GEF Operational Program for
biodiversity conservation particularly in Mountain and Forest ecosystems. Project activities in
Vashlovani National Park will also support conservation in semi-arid ecosystems.
- 3 -



The project responds to Conference of the Parties (COP) guidance by promoting capacity
building, especially for NGOs; promoting conservation and sustainable use through adaptive
management of forest landscapes; and supporting activities that meet the objectives of other
international conventions. In particular, the project will support the objectives of the Bonn
Convention by supporting conservation and monitoring of transboundary populations of
threatened ungulates and their predators as well as, migratory raptors on Palearctic flyways. T he
project responds to COP IV guidance through its emphasis on a landscape approach to ecosystem
conservation and support to innovative public, private and NGO partnerships to support
biodiversity conservation in forest and agricultural production landscapes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues. During the Soviet era, Georgia obtained its timber and timber products from
Russia (up to 3.5 million m' annually), allowing its forests to be managed for protection and
recreation. Like other countries of the former Soviet Union, social and economic conditions s: nce
independence have led to more intensive utilization of forests for income and subsistence.
However, management of the forest sector is still weakly adapted to Georgia's current economic,
social, and environmental needs, resulting in unsustainable forest practices and the degradation of
globally significant biodiversity in Caucasus forest ecosystems. Two factors contributing to the
unsustainability of forest use in Georgia are:
-     Lack of investment in managing Georgia's forests for ensuring sustainable management
and conservation for both goods (timber, non-timber forest products, and wildlife) and
environmental services (e.g., watershed protection). The Department of Forestry is faced witlt the
challenges of modemization at a time when the sector is faced with low state budgets for forest
management. The problem is exacerbated by a steady rise in illegal and under-managed
harvesting of timber and fuelwood. Similar problems are encountered in the management of
mountain grasslands, which are being overgrazed by sheep.
*     The current protected area network is inadequate for the purposes of protecting the areas
of highest biodiversity in the Georgian Caucasus Mountains. At the time of its independence,
Georgia's protected area network, modeled on the zapovednik system of the former Soviet Union
(FSU), consisted of small, isolated, strictly protected reserves. The reserve system protects less
than 2% of forests within the Georgian Caucasus Mountains and is managed solely for scientific
research and education. In addition, the Department of Protected Areas (DPA) and the
Department of Forestry (DoF) have been following a traditional division of resource management
into "protection" and "production" functions, in contrast to more modem approaches of multirle
use protected areas planning and management.
Government Strategy. Govemment has recognized the need to address the problems facing the
forest sector in a comprehensive fashion. Over the last five years, Government, NGOs and
concerned individuals have engaged in broad, participatory dialogue to better understand the
problems and agree on the best way to ensure the protection of Georgia's unique forest
ecosystems within the overarching objectives of reducing poverty and promoting economic
growth. Consultations were undertaken to:
-4 -



*     Understand the problems and build consensus on priority actions. To better understand
the problems and build consensus on their solutions, Georgian stakeholders have prepared three
integrated strategies: a Forest Sector Strategy, a National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan, and
a National Environmental Action Plan. These strategies identify the reform agenda and
investment priorities for forestry, biodiversity conservation, and protected areas in Georgia; and
*     Agree on an environment and natural resources management agenda within Georgia's
goals of poverty reduction and economic growth. Government has recently prepared an Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP) which identifies its priorities and programs for
reducing poverty. The IPRSP identifies improved forest management and conservation as one of
Georgia's priorities for attacking poverty.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To implement the strategies noted above, Govermnent has prepared two projects that will be
implemented separately, but with strong strategic and operational linkages: the Protected Areas
Development Project and the Forests Development Project. Together, these two projects will
address the root problems facing the forest sector, including the conservation of Georgia's
biodiversity.
The Forests Development Project (FDP), a proposed US$20 million credit, that is scheduled for
Board presentation in FY02 and will be implemented by the Department of Forestry, will establish
sound forest management systems that improve the contribution of Georgia's forests to economic
development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis. The project
will: (i) strengthen the regulatory and financial framework for sustainable forestry; (ii) strengthen
capacity for forest management planning, through the adoption of national standards for
sustainable forestry and certification and establishment of new forest infonnation systems and a
national inventory; and (iii) implement improved forest management plans, following completion
of the landscape-level protected area planning in collaboration with the Protected Areas
Development Project.
The Protected Areas Development Project (PADP) described in this document would collaborate
with the FDP to prepare a protected areas plan for the Central Caucasus planning region and
corridor plans linking protected areas in eastern Georgia. The PADP would establish local
support groups to initiate consultations for a new national park in the Central Caucasus region. It
would also create or expand three protected at highest priority biodiversity sites in eastern
Georgia and implement management plans to improve biodiversity conservation there. The
protected areas financed under the project would develop small-scale income generating activities
for local communities related to tourism, in order to improve benefit sharing by local communities
and to help finance operational costs of the protected areas. The project would organize
community based resource user groups and provide technical assistance for improved forest and
pasture use to assist with the recovery of natural habitats in the multiple use zones of the national
parks and in the buffer zones outside of the parks.
The main project alternative considered was to combine the Protected Areas Development and
Forests Development projects into a single project. The Government of Georgia rejected this
- 5 -



alternative because: (i) of the need for the PADP to improve the protected areas network to
ensure protection of highest biodiversity areas values, as quickly as possible; and (ii) a single
project designed to achieve the specific objectives of both projects would be too risky because of
its high complexity.
To ensure that the two projects remain closely linked, they will be implemented through a shared
project Steering Committee. The two projects would jointly finance preparation of a regional
protected area plan for the Central Caucasus that emphasizes multiple use management objectives
and incorporates biodiversity conservation concerns into forest management planning. The
projects will also collaborate in developing two corridor plans in the Eastern Caucasus that link
conservation management in protected areas with adjacent state forest and pasturelands. These
collaborative zones are intended to model future integrated planning methodologies that would
eventually be mainstreamed into the forestry planning process for the whole country.
Another strategic choice was to make needed improvements to the policy framework for the
Forests Development Project and the Protected Areas Development Project during preparation,
and thereby provide a foundation for project implementation. The table below summarizes the
work completed on the joint policy framework during preparation of the projects.
- 6 -



Joint Policy Framework for the Forests Development Project (FDP) and
Protected Areas Development Project (PADP)
Issues                        Progress on Policy Framework
1. Outdated forest policy     The legal framework for sustainable forestry is the new
framework, unresponsive to    Forest Code, which was completed and adopted as part of
Georgia's reliance on forest  preparation of the FDP, with inputs from the PADP. The
goods and services            Forest Code emphasizes principles of protection, sustainable
development, and management of Georgian forests based on
the Rio Declaration.
2. Lack of strategic planning  The PADP and FDP assisted in completing three strategic
plans adopted during preparation of the two projects: the
National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan, Forest Sector
Strategy, and National Environmental Action Plan. At the
site and resource management levels, the projects
collaborated in the preparation of management plans for
three protected areas and in strategic planning and
stocktaking activities for landscape planning in the Central
and Eastern Caucasus planning regions.
3. Incomplete framework and   The framework for protected areas is included in two new
mandate on protected areas &  laws: the Forest Code and the Framework Law on Protected
provided primarily through the    Areas, which establishes categories of protected areas
forest laws                   consistent with IUCN standards.
4. Weak participatory approaches  A national dialogue on sustainable forestry and biodiversity
to forest use and public dialogue   conservation was launched through the education and
on forest conservation        awareness campaign of the Bank/WWF Alliance on Forest
Conservation, the review and update of the Bank Forest
Policy, and preparation of the FDP and PADP. Participatory
methods of resource and protected area planning are
emphasized in the PADP and FDP.
5. Inadequate public funding of   The FDP and PADP would manage separate revenue
forestry and protected area   accounts which channel revenues back into resource
institutions                  management and protection.
6. Management and ownership of To assist with decentralizing forest management and
forests by centralized state  empowering local and regional authorities and private
authorities, lack of private  individuals in forest management, the new Forest Code
investment and low economic   permits multiple forms of forest ownership (state, municipal
efficiency                    & community, church, and private), long tertn leasing of
forests and privatization of forest management activities.
7. Trade barriers in forest sector   The export ban on forest products was lifted, which will
permit Georgia to receive fair market value for its forest
products and reinvest these revenues back into sustainable
management.
- 7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The table below summarizes the funding, by component, for the Protected Areas Development
Project (PADP) and the associated IDA Forests Development Project (FDP).
Indicative       Bnooik    %Of       GEF      %4f
60M~~~~~~~Ontots                         % f      financing    Bank   financing    GEF
1. Support Protected Areas    Natural Resources    6.87       22.7    6.00         0.0     0.72      8.3
Planning                    Management
(FDP: planning activities
within the Improve Forest
Management component*)
2. Establish Protected Areas   Natural Resources  17.20        56.8   10.00        0.0     6.10     70.1
Management and Build        Management
Awareness of Biodiversity
Conservation
(FDP: 'Improve Forest
Management' and 'Support
Community Forestry'
components*)
3. Reorganize and Strengthen  Institutional        4.50        14.9    3.00        0.0      1.25    14.4
the Department of Protected    Development
Areas
(FDP: Institutional and
Regulatory Reform
component*)
4. Project Management       Institutional          1.73         5.7    1.00        0.0     0.63      7.2
Development
Total Project Costs                     30.30        100.0   20.00        0.0     8.70    100.0
Total Financing Required                      30.30       100.0   20.00        0.0      8.70    1000
* The total cost of the two projects is US$29.75 million, including US$8.7 million in GEF funding for the PADP and
Us$20 million in IDA funding for the FDP.
The project would support protected area planning in the Central Caucasus and ecological
corridor planning in the Eastern Caucasus; finalize management plans at three protected areas and
build the capacity of the Department of Protected Areas (DPA) to implement them, and build
public support for biodiversity conservation. The project includes the following four components:
Component 1: Support Protected Areas Planning. The Protected Areas Development Project
(PADP) and the Forests Development Project (FDP) would collaborate in the preparation of a
protected area plan for the Central Caucasus Planning region, and on two corridor plans in the
Eastern Caucasus planning region.
Three activities would be implemented jointly by the PADP and FDP for the 7,430 sq. km Central
- 8 -



Caucasus planning region: (i) inventories and analyses of the landscape diversity, as inputs to the
protected area planning process. The PADP would finance biodiversity studies and the FDP
would finance inventories of forest resources; (ii) harmonization of the policies and classifications
for land-use, resource-use and protected areas, resulting in a unified classification of protected
areas for the Central Caucasus region, and (iii) preparation of a protected area plan, with
management plan guidelines for each protected area category (based on IUCN categories). In
high biodiversity areas, national parks and strict nature reserves would be managed for
biodiversity protection by the Department of Protected Area. In forests areas classified for
sustainable use, including timber products and environmental values, multiple use protected areas
would be managed by the Department of Forestry. Based on the results of the protected area
plan, the FDP would prepare and implement management plans for individual protected areas
under its mandate (i.e., IUCN categories V-VI), without GEF financing. The PADP would
initiate consultations with local communities on establishment of one new national park in the
planning region.
The PADP and FDP would also collaborate on two activities to promote biodiversity
conservation in the production landscape in corridors connecting protected areas in two areas of
eastern Georgia (i) the alluvial floodplain forests along the Alazani River, and (ii) the mosaic of
grasslands and forests in key corridors connecting protected areas in the Caucasus mountains
which provide critical habitat for globally threatened species such as the Dagestan tur, Caucasian
black grouse and Caucasian snow cock.
Component 2: Establish Protected Areas Management and Build Awareness of
Biodiversity Conservation. The PADP and FDP would expand the vision and capacity for
multiple use management of protected areas of all categories in Georgia.
The PADP would implement management plans at three protected areas in eastern Georgia: the
proposed Tusheti (115,800 ha) and Vashlovani National Parks (44,796 ha) and Lagodekhi
Reserve (which would be expanded under the project from 17,932 to 25,400 ha). The key
activities to be implemented are: (i) participatory finalization of management plans, following
baseline surveys and applied studies to assess biodiversity, resource use (livestock carrying
capacity, fuelwood collection, hunting) and potential visitor impacts; leading to (ii) improved
resource management, with participation of local user groups; (iii) establishment of infrastructure
to support park administration and visitor use; (iv) support to local communities in carrying out
biodiversity-friendly activities in the park support zone through a small grants program; (v)
community outreach to build public awareness of the project's objectives and encourage
participation of local communities in the project; and (vi) professional development and training
for DPA protected area staff in protected areas management, business planning and ranger
training. The U.S. National Park Service (USNPS) would assist with mentoring and technical
assistance to DPA staff at the three protected areas through training and exchange programs with
"sister parks" in the U.S., focusing on park administration, site-specific park planning and
management, visitor use, services and revenue generation. This assistance, co-financed by the
U.S. Government, will also be provided to the DPA central department under component 3.
The FDP would revise and update the process for preparing forest management plans to ensure
-9-



sustainable flows of goods (timber, non-timber forest products, and wildlife) and environmenial
services (e.g., watershed protection), and implement these over a part of the Central Caucasus
planning region. The FDP would finance the technical (including biodiversity) and social inpuits to
the updated forest management plans, and implementation of the plans.
Component 3: Reorganize and Strengthen the Department of Protected Areas. Under
preparation of the PADP and the FDP, the Department of Protected Areas (DPA; with assistance
of the US National Park Service) and the Department of Forestry (with assistance of FAO),
updated their mandates and identified priorities for institutional reform and strengthening.
The PADP would assist the Department of Protected Area to implement its mandate, to manage
protected areas for the conservation and use of the country's landscape and biological diversity,
through: (i) restructuring of the DPA into three branches (operations, planning, and
administration); (ii) professional development and technical assistance in key areas, including
public administration, protected areas and resource management, information management and
GIS, tourism marketing and development; financial management and operation of the revenue
account for new protected areas; and (iii) equipment needed to strengthen DPA management
(office and transport). The project would also assist DPA to develop and implement standardized
protocols for biodiversity monitoring in the project protected area and the corridors that connect
them. It would also assist DPA to develop and implement a national strategy and action plan to
build national support for biodiversity conservation and protected area management in Georgia.
The FDP would assist the Department of Forestry to implement its new mandate to establish
sound forest management systems that would maximize the contribution of Georgia's forests to
economic development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis,
through: (i) restructuring of the DoF and consolidation of district offices; (ii) development of
national standards for sustainable forestry that would be incorporated into forest management
guidelines and implemented in specific areas under component 2 of the FDP; (iii) establishmert of
forest information system and completion of a national forest inventory; and (iv) training and
incremental logistical support (office and transport).
Component 4: Project Management includes support for operating costs of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIUs for the PADP and FDP would be in the Department of
Protected Areas and the Department of Forestry, respectively.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reform. Project would support restructuring of the Department of Protected Areas
into a divisional structure which would more effectively permit it to meet its mandate. The
proposed divisional structure would strengthen the DPA's role in resource management, visitor
management, and financial planning and management. The proposed restructuring was the
subject of technical assistance and a broad consultative process during preparation, through a
partnership with the U.S. National Park Service. The USNPS has committed to continuing this
partnership during implementation.
10 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Environmental: The project will have environmental benefits through better protection for
threatened ecosystems, improved management of forest and pasture resources, and protection
against soil erosion.
Financial: The project will have financial benefits by promoting tourism use of the protected
areas, and by improving the financial viability of the Department of Protected Areas through the
collection of visitor and use fees and improved accounting practices. The targets of these benefits
are the private sector currently providing tourism services, local communities which will be
provided assistance in developing goods and services for sale, and the DPA.
Institutional: DPA will benefit from modernization of its mandate (from a control and command,
protection orientation, to a participatory, multiple use orientation), and from the capacity-building
activities needed to achieve this change in mandate.
Social: The project will support the development of user groups for pasture resources to ensure
continuity in access to resources, to improve resource use practices, and assist in their
participation in the management of the protected areas. The project's tourism developing
activities are expected to provide local employment opportunities, though these can be expected
to be modest.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
During project appraisal, it was agreed that the Department of Protected Areas would be the
Executing Agency, and that the Ministry of Environment would continue to work in the areas of
policy development and environmental regulation, especially through the collaboration in the
protected areas planning component (Component 1), and in environmental review of
infrastructure plans for the protected areas.
The Department of Protected Areas would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the
project under the guidance of the Project Steering Committee. The central department would be
responsible for implementing the activities under the protected area planning component in the
Central Caucasus (Component 1), and the institutional development component (Component 3),
including annual work programming and budget planning, development of technical
specifications for goods and services, procurement evaluation, recruitment of staff, and quarterly
reporting of project activities and outcomes.
The administrations of the Department of Protected Areas in Tusheti, Lagodekhi, and
Vashlovani would be responsible for implementing the management plans under Component B.
Each of these protected areas is staffed with a Director and technical specialists which have been
responsible for preparation of these plans. Because many of the goods and services to be
received by these administrations to implement the management plans are similar, the three
administrations would collaborate to prepare draft technical specifications and terms of reference
for goods and services to be provided by the PIU (Project Implementation Unit).
- 11 -



A PIU would be responsible for the procurement and financial management arrangements of the
project including accounting, financial reporting and auditing. The PIU is currently the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) and is registered, under Presidential Decree, as the Protected Areas
Development Center. The PIU would be responsible for (i) procurement of all goods and
services; (ii) assisting the Department of Protected Areas to prepare an annual work progran
and budget, which will be approved by the Board; and (iii) coordinating the delivery of technical
assistance provided by the National Park Service and international consultants. The Bank
conducted a financial management capacity assessment and confirmed that the PIU satisfies the
Bank's/IDA's minimum financial management requirements.
The project Steering Committee would approve the annual work-program and budget, provide
policy guidance to the Department of Protected Areas on project implementation issues, and
approve keystone work products. The Steering Committee will ensure democratic representation
of the key governmental actors (Department of Protected Areas, Ministry of Environment,
Department of Forestry, Ministry of Agriculture, and Academy of Sciences). The chairperson
would be selected from outside aforementioned ministries/agencies, and preferably from the
Parliament. The Steering Committee will be established through Presidential Decree and its
composition modified in consultation with the Bank.
The Caucasus Working Group would be responsible for guiding preparation of the protected
area planning activity in the Central Caucasus ecoregion and the corridor planning activities in.
the Eastern Caucasus region, with endorsing the reports, and facilitating their implementation.
The Caucasus Working Group will be formed from the Central Caucasus Commission, with
technical specialists representing the Ministry of Environment, Departments of Forestry and
Protected Areas, Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), representatives of local governments, and
environmental NGOs. Technical subgroups would be formed for each of three discrete planning
activities (Central Caucasus protected area planning, eastem Caucasus mountain corridor
planning, and eastem corridor floodplain forest planning), and would be responsible for all field
and analytic studies, consultative workshops, and document preparation. The Caucasus Working
Group will be established through Presidential Decree and its composition agreed to and
modified in consultation with the Bank.
A five member local advisory committee would be established at each of the three protected
areas to advise the DPA on project and park-related activities, and to ensure that local
stakeholder opinions and concems are heard. The five-member local advisory committee will
include representatives of local resource user groups, district and village government, local
communities, ethnic groups and NGOs.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: Responsibility for financial management of the project will
rest with the PIU. A financial management specialist has been employed by the PIU since the
beginning project preparation (summer 1999). An additional accountant will be recruited as
required during project implementation. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment
of the PIU and confirmed that the PIU satisfies the Bank's/IDA's minimum financial management
- 12 -



requirements. However, the PIU does not have in place an adequate project financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status
of the project (PMRs) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-based Disbursements.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Project management-oriented PMRs will be used for
project monitoring and supervision. The formats of the PMRs (Cash Model) are included within
the draft Operational Manual and will be confirned during Negotiations. The PIU will produce a
full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project beginning with the
period ending 18 months after project effectiveness date. However, the PMRs showing the
project's sources and uses of funds by disbursement category (PMR IA), uses of funds by project
activity (PMR I B) and the project's Special Account Statement (PMR 1 E) will be produced from
project effectiveness and the four procurement management reports (PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D)
will be produced within six months of project effectiveness.
Disbursements: Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made
at the mutual agreement of the borrower and the Bank and will be considered once the PIU is
familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely
and reliable project management information.
Audit Arrangements: External audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank and
on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost
Selection and the selection of the project's auditors is condition of project effectiveness. Annual
audited financial statements of the project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be
extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost
of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the GEF Grant as consulting services.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During project preparation, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) was designated the Executing
Agency because of its mandate under Georgian Law in developing environmental policies and
laws and monitoring their implementation. MoE also played an important role during preparation
by assisting the relatively less experienced Department of Protected Areas. During project
appraisal, it was agreed that the DPA would assume the role of the Executing Agency. The
capacity of the DPA was strengthened considerably during project preparation, so the change in
the Executing Agency would not increase project risks. This change would permit the MoE to
focus on its broad regulatory and policy development role in the protected areas planning
component (Component 1). It would also allow DPA to demonstrate its ability to play its proper
role in the protection and use of Georgian natural resources, and gain needed support to pursue
its mandate.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Superison
Sector Issue                      Project                   (S   Ratings
:______ ______ ______ ______   :::::__   (  " "Ol anc e  only)
Implementation   Developm ent
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDF-fmanced                        National Environmental Action
Plan
IDA-financed                       Cultural Heritage Project          S             S
Forestry Development Project
(under preparation)
IDA and GEF-financed              Integrated Coastal Zone             S             S
Management Project
Agriculture Research Extension     S             S
Training Project
GEF-financed                       National Biodiversity
Strategy/Action Plan
Black Sea Environment
Program
Other development agencies                   : :
UNDP                               Arid and Semi-Arid Eco-system
Conservation in the Caucasus
KFW                                Borjomi-Karagauli National
Park
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Three lessons learned from GEF and Bank projects in the region are:
Projects should be initiated by building capacity for implementing project activities, and
addressing policy changes needed for successful implementation. During the first year of
implementation, the project will focus in two areas: (i) institutional reform of the Department of
Protected Areas; and (ii) building capacity in implementing project activities.
Projects should have broad support in the government, civil society, and local communities where
the three protected areas are proposed to be created or expanded. The proposed project is
recognized as a national priority and has the support of central and district government officia; s,
local communities, and NGOs. Evidence of this support is seen in that:
(i) creation/expansion of the three project protected areas have been approved by the district
governments; (ii) the public meetings held during the project appraisal were well-attended, and
highly supportive of the project; and (iii) support for the project has been received from central
government individuals, including the President and the Speaker of the Parliament.
- 14 -



GEF projects should develop mechanisms to improve sustainability. The project addresses this
through the development of tourism opportunities in the protected areas and would assist the
local communities in participating in income generating activities that are consistent with the
protected areas' biodiversity conservation priority. Analyses of tourism potential, willingness to
pay, and estimations of revenue streams indicate that 70% of non-salary operating costs for the
protected areas could be covered through visitor fees by Year 6.
The recommendations from the STAP review have been incorporated into the project design as
follows:
i)    Close cooperation and coordination with the Forests Development Project. Government
has prepared the Protected Areas Development Project and the Forests Development Project with
strong strategic and operational linkages. The projects have been linked in the following ways:
*     The two projects collaborated during preparation to establish a policy framework for
sustainable forestry, with passage of new legislation, the Forest Code, approved by Parliament
(see issues 1-6 in Section B3 of the PAD). This and the new Framework Law on Protected Areas
created the enabling policy environment for the two projects.
=     A key area of collaboration will be planning for appropriate land and resource use
(conservation or sustainable forest management) in the Central Caucasus, an area of high
biodiversity and commercial timber values. This critical planning activity is underway now under
the loan advance for the Forest Development Project. Therefore, it is essential for the Protected
Areas Development Project to become effective so that its staff can participate fully in this
process. The output of this would be a comprehensive protected area plan for the Central
Caucasus region, in accordance with IUCN categories. In high biodiversity areas, national parks
and strict nature reserves would be managed for biodiversity protection by the Department of
Protected Area. In forests areas classified for sustainable use, including timber products and
environmental values, multiple use protected areas would be managed by the Department of
Forestry.
*     The two projects will also collaborate in developing two corridor plans in the Eastern
Caucasus that link conservation management in protected areas with adjacent state forest and
pasturelands.
*     To ensure that the two projects remain closely linked, they will be implemented through a
shared project Steering Committee and jointly supervised by the World Bank.
ii)    Ensure local participation in planning and implementation. For this, the project would
establish local advisory committees, comprised of representatives of local resource user groups,
district and/or village government, NGOs, women and other key stakeholders, to advise the DPA
on project and park-related activities. User associations would be created to serve as focal points
for project-financed technical assistance in natural resource management and to promote their
organized participation in decision making. The small grants program would finance conservation
- 15 -



activities by local communities, organizations, and individuals in the support zones outside of the
three project protected areas.
iii)   Evaluate the need for institutional reformn. An institutional capacity assessment of the
Department of Protected Areas was carried out during project preparation, and identified key
areas for improvement to be implemented under the project, including a new institutional
structure. The U.S. National Park Service would provide mentoring and technical assistance to
the project to assist with the institutional reform and strengthening, as described in Sections C I
and E4 of the PAD.
iv)   Evaluate the need for ex-situ conservation. No ex-situ conservation interventions are
currently included in the project. In the Vashlovani area, it is hoped that the project's approach to
addressing overgrazing and illegal hunting may result in the natural recovery of wild gazelle
populations. During implementation, the need for captive breeding and reintroduction of gazelle
will be evaluated and if required, would be financed through counterpart funds.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The project was developed on the basis of Georgia's commitments to international and regional
conservation issues: Georgia ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity, is signatory to the
Bonn and Bern Conventions, the Bucharest Convention for the Black Sea, and the Convention on
International Trade of Endangered Species. The project also has strong country ownership and
has benefited from full and participatory collaboration between all sectors of society, including
central and district government, local communities, scientific institutions and NGOs.
Proposals for the creation or expansion of the three protected areas in eastern Georgia have be,n
developed in close collaboration with local communities. According to the social assessment,
although unemployment is the key concern among local communities around the project sites in
eastern Georgia, these same communities support the project because they value the area's natural
heritage. They also expect the project will help reverse natural resource degradation and develop
tourism activities.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank assisted Georgia with preparation of its National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan,
National Environmental Action Plan, and Forest Sector Review, which together provide a
strategic foundation for the project. Through these and other activities, the Bank has developecl
an understanding of the environment and development issues facing Georgia, and gained
experience with government and civil society.
Through the IDA/GEF financed Integrated Coastal Management Project, the Bank is assisting
with a protected areas management activity in Kolkheti which will be linked with activities under
the Protected Areas Development Project. The Kolkheti activities would benefit from the
project's support to strengthen the central Department of Protected Areas, and through technical
assistance in protected area management.
The GEF adds value through its global experience on the design, implementation, and financing of
- 16-



biodiversity conservation projects. GEF support is justified by the global significance of the
biodiversity of the Caucasus region, the existing threats to ecosystem integrity and species
survival, and the commitment of the government to implementing the project. GEF-supported
initiatives have helped to foster greater collaboration between government agencies and NGOs in
project preparation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, sec Annex 8)
l. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Incremental costs are estimated to cover project expenditure on components that have global
benefits. Project activities that will yield global benefits are eligible for GEF financing. The
incremental costs represent those activities that achieve global environmental benefits by (i)
supporting protected areas planning; (ii) establishing protected area management and building
public awareness of biodiversity conservation at three sites in the Eastern Caucasus; (iii)
reorganizing and strengthening the Department of Protected Areas. Government has committed
to financing US$1.45 million for the GEF alternative; US$2.0 million is leveraged under the IDA
funded Forestry Development Project as associated funding; and USAID has mobilized US$0.15
million. The GEF grant contribution toward the GEF alternative would be US$8.7 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project would finance investments in basic park infrastructure (establishment and maintenance
of hiking trails, visitor shelters and information centers) and development of related services
(advertising campaigns, training of park staff to provide interpretation services to visitors,
informational materials for visitors) to promote tourism in the national parks. The project would
benefit local communities by providing opportunities for obtaining income from increased visitor
use of the parks (e.g., through sale of food, room services, handicrafts, and employment of locals
as park rangers or wildlife guides to visitors). Visitor use of the protected areas would also
improve the financial sustainability of the project's investments in improved protected areas
management.
Two studies were carried out during preparation to analyze the potential for such economic
benefits. First, an assessment of opportunities for ecotourism in the three project sites by an
international tourism specialist found that:
* The natural and cultural landscapes of the Caucasus Mountains in Georgia provide medium to
high potential as an international ecotourism destination. The areas with the highest potential
among the project sites are Tusheti, Svaneti (included in the Central Caucasus planning study)
and Lagodekhi.
* Targeted marketing must be an integral part of a tourism development strategy aimed at
creating an image of Georgia as a tourism destination.
* The project's investments in facilities for improved park management (e.g., administration
- 17 -



offices and information centers) and capacity to provide environmental education and park
interpretation services to national and international visitors would also promote ecotourism.
* A medium case scenario of 5% growth for Georgian ecotourism (not only in the project sites),
from a current level of 5000 tourists, would conservatively yield $2.2M to local communities
and $7.8M country-wide by year 5 of the project
Second, residents of Georgia, short term business travelers, and expatriate residents of the region
(Georgia, Azerbaijan, and Armenia) were surveyed to learn about their willingness to visit
Georgian national parks and pay for visitor use services. The survey found that:
* The proposed national parks have a good potential to cover their annual operations and
maintenance costs from tourism revenues in the long term when the project has been
completed. In the light of the severe fiscal difficulties that the Georgian Government is
experiencing, this financial sustainability would be crucial in ensuring long term conservatic n
of biodiversity in the protected areas.
* Based on a medium case scenario for growth in demand, revenues could grow in year six to
US$234,000 in Tusheti, US$64,000 in Vashlovani, and US$115,000 in Lagodekhi. These
numbers are from 1.15 to 2.71 times the costs estimated for operations, maintenance, and staff
salaries for the protected areas.
These economic projections assume completion of park infrastructure and the capacity to manage
the protected areas and their visitors. Currently, infrastructure is limited or lacking and staff lazk
the skills and other resources needed to ensure that visitor use of the protected areas occurs in a
sustainable manner and is consistent with the protected areas' biodiversity conservation
objectives. The project would build this capacity through technical assistance and monitoring
programs in years 1-4 of the project. During this period, visitor use, and therefore revenues,
would be managed to increase modestly, as the skills to ensure environmental sustainability of
tourism are developed. Visitor fees and other revenues are planned to provide 70% of non-saklry
operations costs of the parks by year 6.
Fiscal Impact:
Owing to the financial constraints of Government, every effort has been made to minimize the
fiscal impact of this project on the national budget. The Government contribution is estimated at
US$1.45 million, including US$185,000 as an in-kind contribution for incremental staff and
US$1.25 million in tax. Spread over six years, the fiscal impact of the Government's incremental 
contribution would be negligible.
3. Technical:
The project's activities to expand the vision and capacity for protected areas management in
Georgia and implement the new mandate at three sites would be the focus of the project's
partnership with the U.S. National Park Service (USNPS). Under a Memorandum of
Understanding signed with Government during project preparation, USNPS would provide
mentoring and technical assistance to the DPA central department and the three protected areas,
(Tusheti, Lagodekhi Vashlovani). This assistance would focus on park administration,
site-specific park planning and management, and visitor use, services and revenue generation. It
- 18 -



would be delivered through visits to Georgia by experts in these areas from the USNPS, training
and study tours to the United States for USNPS-organized training programs, and bilateral visits
of park staff under the "sister park" relationships established between the project protected areas
and U.S. National Parks.
4. Institutional:
Institutional Assessment. The DPA staff are well educated and trained in technical areas and are
highly committed to their current mission which focuses on protection of the natural resources
within the nature reserves. An institutional capacity assessment carried out during project
preparation identified the following key areas for improvement:
* leadership to facilitate institutional reform;
* adoption of mandate which reorients the DPA as a visitor-friendly agency charged with
facilitating people's enjoyment of, and education about, protected area resources;
* development of activities which generate income for local communities and public sector
management of the protected areas, based on updated protected area management policies
and practices and development of capacities in marketing, public outreach and service
delivery;
3 improved communication and collaboration with other sectors (e.g. culture, tourism, and
transportation) whose cooperation is essential to the agency's success; and
e development of agency identity and national profile that would help develop understanding of
cultural and natural heritage and encourage visitation.
The management of protected areas developed under the FSU emphasized strict protection and
research. This approach to protected areas management was appropriate when Georgian forests
were managed for protection, and timber and timber products were obtained from Russia. Under
Georgia's developing market conditions, there is a need to expand both the size and mandate of
protected areas management to better address issues in the sustainable use of natural resources
and the role of National Parks and other protected areas in promoting the country's tourism
potential.
Under the project, DPA would manage a larger protected area system with the full range of IUCN
protection categories (e.g., national parks, protected landscapes, etc.), expanding the role of
protected areas in regional sustainable development. A concept for reorganization was initiated
with collaboration of the DPA and U.S. National Park Service. During the first year of project
implementation, the mission and mandate of the DPA would be finalized based on the
collaborations initiated during preparation, and would be adopted through a Presidential Decree.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Section C4 of this PAD discusses the proposal to change the Executing Agency from the Ministry
of Environment to the Department of Protected Areas (DPA). The Department of Protected
Areas would implement the majority of activities.
4.2 Project management:
The current staff of the Project Preparation Unit (PPU), which includes a director, procurement
specialist, and accountant, is adequately familiar with Bank procurement, disbursement and
- 19-



financial management requirements. The PPU would form the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) following effectiveness. The PIU would be located within the Department of Protected
Areas in Tbilisi, and would handle all project procurement.
4 3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the PPU's capacity to implement the project's procurement plan was carried out
in June, 2000. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organizations
and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement
environment and made a general risk assessment of the PPU. The review rated the project's risk
with regard to procurement as high. The following actions would be implemented to mitigate this
risk: (i) during the first six months of the project, the PIU procurement specialist would receive
assistance from a procurement consultant contracted under the project, and should complete a
procurement training course; (ii) the project launch workshop would include a comprehensive
seminar on procurement and financial management, including preparation of bidding documents
for each type of procurement method proposed in the Grant agreement; (iii) a book including all
the standard bidding documents for relevant procurement methods would be provided to the PIU
prior to project launch; and (iv) supervision missions would include a accredited procurement
specialist to post review and resolve pending issues.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The Bank conducted a Country Portfolio Financial
Management Review (CPFMR) of all projects currently under supervision in Georgia and
concluded that project financial management capacity is being progressively developed, inter a lia,
as a result of reforms in accounting and auditing and the creation of an independent accounting
profession in Georgia. However, systematic capacity building in project financial management is
needed if the Georgia portfolio of Bank-financed projects is to be implemented successfully. T he
main risks of the project's financial management arrangements are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff in the PPU. The CPFMR concluded that given the high demand for
skilled financial professionals in Georgia, most of the newly-created PIUs reported
difficulties in recruitment of skilled accountants. The PPU, which would become the PIU
when the project becomes effective, currently employs a full-time experienced financial
management specialist whose responsibilities include maintaining accounts for the project
preparation grant, project accounting, internal controls and financial reporting. The Bank
assessed these arrangements to be satisfactory, however, an additional accountant will be
recruited to the PIU if required during project implementation.
(ii)   Financial management systems. In respect of existing Bank projects' financial
management systems, the CPFMR noted: generally, PIUs do not pay enough attention to
basic internal control procedures; although most of the PIUs have operational manuals.
during project implementation, these manuals are usually not much in use; and most of the
accounting software packages used in Georgia are not supported by adequate access to
technical support and information technology (IT) hotlines. To mitigate these risks for
this project: the Bank reviewed the detailed design of the project's financial management
systems, including its system of internal controls, and confirmed that these were
documented in an operational manual; during project supervision, the Bank will, as
- 20 -



recommended by the CPFMR, periodically review the operational manual to ensure that it
is being adhered to and is up-to-date; and a locally supported software was selected,
tested and implemented by the PPU.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). The banking sector in Georgia is
relatively weak. During project preparation, the Government opened a Special Account in
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and a Transit account in a local commercial
bank rated as Camel 1 or Camel 2 by the National Bank of Georgia. These arrangements
were assessed by the Bank to have been satisfactory and therefore they will remain in
place during project implementation. The CPFMR noted some financial difficulties in the
management of existing Bank projects' transit accounts and thus it has been agreed for this
project that the total amount held in the transit account will be limited to the equivalent of
US$ 5,000 and also, as recommended by the CPFMR, Bank project supervision will
include periodic reviews of the transit account and its management in addition to reviews
of the Special Account and other project accounts. The SA and transit accounts will be
audited annually and the results made available to the Bank.
(iv) Auditing arrangements. The findings of the CPFMR conclude that project auditing
arrangements for most projects in the Georgia portfolio are satisfactory. The CPFMR
also clarifies that, despite progress made in terms of size of membership and professional
development, the Georgia Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors is not yet
a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and therefore the local
audit firms certified by the Audit Council of the Parliament of Georgia are not yet eligible
to carry out audits of Bank-financed projects. Membership of a professional accounting
organization which is itself a member of IFAC is a prerequisite for any audit firm to be
considered acceptable to the Bank. However, the recent accounting and audit reforms
have created an enabling environment for creating associations between intemational audit
firms acceptable to the Bank and local audit firms. Thus the Bank will provide its
no-objection to the auditor selected by the PIU prior to its appointment.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is classified as Category B. The project will have overall positive environmental
impact by conserving biodiversity and improving natural resource use. The project would
improve management practices in the use zones of the protected area to address the currently
unsustainable levels of grazing and timber/fuelwood harvesting. The benefits of improving natural
resource management would include increased productivity of grazing lands, better protection
against soil erosion, and more sustainable use of biological resources. These benefits are expected
to be realized in the medium to long terms. In the short term, forest and pasture use in areas
which have been over-utilized would be reduced.
The issues covered in the environmental management plan are:
*  the small-scale construction and/or renovation of national park infrastructure, including
administrative buildings, checkpoints and guard stations, trails and tourism infrastructure
will have minor direct impacts on flora and fauna.
- 21 -



*   the increase in recreational use of the three national parks under the project would have
minor increases in noise and disturbance to wildlife and may require refuse collection av
frequently visited sites.
*   the link to the proposed Bank Forestry Development Project (FY02) will positively
contribute to the sustainable forest management through improved information on flora
and fauna in the Caucasus region, and recommendations how to best integrate biodiversity
conservation objectives into forest management planning and landscape-level zoning for
protected and production areas based on ecological principles.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Mitigation measures provided for in the EMP found in the project file are adequate and include:
Siting and construction: (i) inventories of flora and fauna would be included in the infrastructui-e
plan to be developed in the first year of the project; (ii) the Ministry of Environment will supervise
preparation of site specific environmental plans before issuing permits for construction activities,
in accordance with the Georgia Law on Environment Assessment; and (iii) the public will be
consulted at all stages of project implementation.
Increased visitor use: (i) visitor use would be modest during the project life in order to focus oi
building service capacity on interpretation services and visitor management; (ii) the project would
provide technical assistance in visitor management and impact monitoring.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 15, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The preparatory work for the individual protected areas was initiated through regional support
groups, which include local community members and NGOs in the project region (see Social
Assessment summary below). The results of the environmental assessment and recommended
environmental management plan were the subject of consultations with local communities in June
2000.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project supports activities to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment, and ecosystem health within the proposed protected areas. Information on
biological, geological, hydrological and cultural systems, as well as ownership and user rights and
economic activities will be compiled for both baseline and periodic monitoring purposes. At the
individual protected area sites, the project will finance monitoring and applied research to fill
major gaps in the existing information on the biodiversity. Training and technical assistance will be
provided to ensure that appropriate monitoring protocols for environmental and social aspects are
established and management plans are updated accordingly.
- 22 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Annex 1 1 summarizes the results of the Social Assessment and Public Participation Plan,
including socioeconomic characteristics of the region, stakeholder attitudes and key issues
relevant to the project objectives, and implications of these attitudes on project design. The total
population living in the vicinity of the three project sites is estimated at 132,500. In general, this
population supports their region's protected areas and the objective to expand these areas,
improve their management, and promote tourism. Stakeholders living around the protected areas
believe they would benefit from an increase in the quality of natural resources, due to improved
management, and from project and tourism-related employment and income generating
opportunities.
The project's social development objective is to engage local communities in improving the
protection and sustainable use of biodiversity. To achieve this objective: (i) representatives of
local communities would serve on the local advisory committees; (ii) local communities would
receive extension services for sustainable forest and pasture use, veterinary services, and
small-scale tourism and eco-marketing opportunities, and in the establishment resource user
groups; and (ii) a small grants program would be implemented to promote the link between
biodiversity conservation and income generation for local communities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project includes several mechanisms to ensure stakeholder participation. At the national
level, the project's cross-sectoral steering committee that guided project preparation would
continue into project implementation. An inter-sectoral Caucasus Working Group would be
responsible for the protected area and resource use planning activities in the Central and Eastern
Caucasus. At the project sites, the project would establish local advisory committees, including
representatives of local resource user groups, district and/or village government, NGOs, women
and other key stakeholders, to advise the DPA on project and park-related activities. User
associations would be created to serve as focal points for project-financed technical assistance in
natural resource management and to promote their organized participation in decision making.
The small grants program would finance conservation activities by local communities,
organizations, and individuals in the support zones outside of the three project protected areas.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Georgian NGOs were deeply involved in project preparation, and would be encouraged to
participate and lead activities during implementation, including local advisory committees and
technical functions. International NGOs would be invited to share international experience in
protected area management and would be eligible to bid on technical assistance packages. The
project would benefit from its partnership with the U.S. National Park Service, which would
promote transparency and participation of civil society.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensurc the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
- 23 -



The project would include a small grants program for biodiversity-friendly income-generating
activities around the project sites. This program would be open to local stakeholders, community
groups and NGOs, to support activities for raising awareness of biodiversity conservation,
encouraging sustainable resource use and developing income generating activities that are
consistent with the biodiversity conservation objectives of the protected areas. Eligibility criteria
and application procedures for these grants would be designed early in project implementation
with the participation of local stakeholders and would be subject to Bank review.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project would finance socioeconomic monitoring under implementation, building on the
social assessment developed during preparation. The project would monitor the attitudes and
needs of local stakeholders and communities and provide feedback on the implementation of
project activities (education and awareness, enforcement, grazing management, development c f
nature based tourism).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          A Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntarv Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            C Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project was rated environmental category B. An environmental assessment was carried out
and discussed with local communities during project preparation. The assessment and record of
the public consultations was submitted to the Infoshop before appraisal.
With regard to the Natural Habitats OP (4.04), the project would create two new national pares
and finance small-scale infrastructure needed to manage resources and visitors. The project
would not support the conversion of natural habitats, would not construct linear features that
would cut through natural habitats, would not affect the water supply to or drainage from natLral
habitats, and would not result in the resettlement or migrations of people that might adversely
impact natural habitats. Rather, the project would help to protect and manage fragile ecosystems.
With regard to the Forestry OP (4.36), the project would finance the protection and conservation
of forest biodiversity and increase the role of local peoples in the management of forests within
the protected areas. The project would not directly or indirectly result in the loss of forests of
high ecological value and would not finance commercial logging operations.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of GEF projects elsewhere in the region has been considered good for
capacity-building investments but uncertain overall due to weak state budget support for
biodiversity conservation. The project has addressed the problem of financial sustainability
by designing the project with activities to promote nature-based tourism, and to collect user
fees to finance the protected areas' basic maintenance costs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth coltumn of Anncx I i:
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability in the Caucasus region  S        Project was developed with broad support at
will slow project implementation                       national and local levels, and would foster
cooperation in transborder protected areas with
Russia.
Lack of public support for biodiversity      M         Project design incorporates views of local
conservation and protected areas                       stakeholders. Project will also support a
national outreach program for promoting the
national parks
Insufficient incentives to attract and       M         Project will provide training in new skills and
maintain qualified and motivated staff                 new career opportunities for DPA staff.
Insufficient domestic and international     M          Assessments of tourism potential and demand
demand for tourism opportunities in the               indicate there is sufficient interest among
national parks                                         potential users. Project will assist DPA to
develop business plans for environmentally
appropriate tourism services.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of commitment of Government and         M         Project has established mechanisms for
non-governmental actors to cross sectoral             inter-sectoral communication and collaboration,
planning                                               especially among Department of Protected
Areas, Department of Forestry, and Ministry of
Agriculture, through a national level Project
Steering Committee chaired at Parliamentary
level and Caucasus Comnmittee for specific
activities in the Central and Eastern Caucasus.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 25 -



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions of project effectiveness:
The Recipient has established a Project Steering Committee with experience and qualifications.
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
The Recipient has selected an independent auditor with experience and qualifications, and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Conditions of disbursement:
Prior to disbursement for Small Grants, under Component 2, the Recipient has adopted Small
Grants Guidelines that are satisfactory to the Bank.
Prior to disbursement for reorganizing and strengthening the DPA, under Component 3, the
central DPA has hired four additional staff under terms of reference and qualifications acceptable
to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Manageinent:
The Recipient will maintain a Project Steering Commnittee with experience, qualifications and
working procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The Recipient will maintain a Project Implementation Unit under terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
The Recipient will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank and have the
financial records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited and submit a
certified audit report to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the
closing of the project.
Project Implementation:
The Recipient will provide the funds, facilities, services, and other resources needed for the
Project.
The Recipient will submit its annual work plans and project budgets for each year of project
implementation not later than November 30 of each year for review by the Bank.
The Recipient will furnish to the Bank, on or about June 31, 2004, a report on the progress of the
project (incorporating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities) and sets out measures
for achievement of project objectives for rest of Project.
- 26 -



Monitoring, Review and Reporting
The Recipient will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the canrying out of the
project and the achievement of the project's objectives.
The Recipient will prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
CI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Phillip Brylski                         M. Cleaver                           'Connor
Team Leader                         ctor Manager                     Country Manager
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
$iprv\ $,                         _,                    1-~to   G''9tica__ Aa                 s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:    Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Objectives:         Creation of national parks  Parliamentary gazette  Improved natural resources
1. Protect the environment, in Eastem and Central                         management contributes to
support sustainable natural Caucasus             Government State of the    poverty reduction
resources management, and                        Environment reports
foster private sector rural   Biodiversity conservation                   Continued Govemment
development             objectives integrated into                        support for marke :-based
forest and range                                 reform
management
Development of
nature-based tourism plans
GEF Operational Program:
Support in-situ         Increase in populations of  Independent evaluation by   Continued Government
conservation, sustainable   key indicator and threatened intemational panel  commitment to biodiversity
use, and capacity building  species                                       conservation
Annual and supervision
Protected Areas Department reports
restructured professional
development and training
activities
- 28 -



Key Performiance
Hierarhy d Obeves                lndic$ors           Monitoring & Evaluation    Crwt5al ksumptions
Global Objective:         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Project Development        Protected Area Plan for the   Annual reports from social   Continued Government
Objective:                 Central Caucasus supported   and protected area monitoring commitment to biodiversity
by local communities and   programs                   conservation and
Conserve Georgian          adopted by Government                                 institutional reform
biodiversity through the                              National biodiversity
creation of three ecologically  Summer population censuses  information system
and socially effective     of Caucasian tur show stable
protected areas and build  or increasing numbers in 2 of
capacity for mainstreaming   the last four years of the
biodiversity conservation into  project
the production landscapes
which connect them         Implementation of corridor
plans on forest and pasture
lands linking protected areas
Recovery, through natural
regeneration under improved
management systems, of
overgrazed alpine and steppe
habitats
Social indicators monitored at
project sites show continued
support for protected areas
Revenue from tourism and
resource use covers at least
70% of non-salary protected
area operating expenses by
Year 5.
- 29 -



Hi- Wrh oI                                                  &01  li         C Itical As8ump$s~ns
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Forest resource and      Central Caucasus         Plans adopted or endorsed   Government commitment to
conservation plan for    Resources Plan completed,                         mainstreaming biodiversity
Central Caucasus Region   with proposed gazettement                        conservation objectives into
adopted                  of one new national park                         resource management
activities
Agreement reached with
Department of Forestry and                        Adequate stakeholder
Corridor plan linking    Ministry of Agriculture,                          participation in policy
protected areas adopted for local and regional                             formulation and in
Eastern Georgia          government on guidelines                          development and
for integration of                                implementation of forestry
biodiversity conservation                         and range managem nent
into forestry planning and                        planning
grazing management
process                                           Local support for
biodiversity conservation
activities
- 30 -



Management plans under   Legal designation of 2   Laws passed on creation of National support for
implementation at three  national parks and       two new national parks,    Georgia Protected Area
protected areas          expansion of 1 nature    with mechanisms for park   Plan and local support for
reserve                 financing                 individual protected areas
Sustainable resource use in
support zone             At least 90% of each     Gazettement of protected    Sufficient domestic and
management plan is       areas                    international demand for
Revenue generation and    implemented after 6 years                       tourism opportunities in the
reinvestment system      of project implementation.  Adoption of management   national parks
(governance and legal) in                         plans
place for three protected    Resource user groups                          Social and political stability
areas                    established and operational Progress, and supervision   of the country consistent
within protected area and   reports, Project      with development of a
support zone             Management Reports       tourism industry
(PMRs) (for all outputs)
Completion of successful
biodiversity-friendly
activities in support zone
under the small grants
program
Administrative system for
receiving and managing
user/entrance fees in place
by the end of the 3d year of
the project.
The amount of funds
collected increases 20% by
the end of the 6h year
relative to the end of the 3"
year.
DPA reorganized and      Statute for the new      Numbers staff            Sufficient incentives to
strengthened             structure of the Department trained/training courses    attract and maintain
of Protected Areas is    completed                qualified and motivated
approved by the GoG by the                        staff
end of the I' year of the    Independent institutional
project                  evaluation
Institutional development
plan for the DPA has been
implemented at least 60%
by the end of the 3"dyear and
90% by the end of the 5'd
year.
- 31 -



Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Componen1s to
Sub-components:         component)                                        Outputs)
Support protected areas    $USO.87M              Progress, and supervision   Commitment of
planning                                         reports, Project         Government and
Management Reports      non-governmentazl actors to
(PMRs)                  cross sectoral planning
Establish protected areas   $US7.20M                                      Adequate and timely
management                                                                Government counterpart
financing
Reorganize and strengthen  $US1.50M
Department of Protected
Areas
Project management      $USO.73M
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Objective
1.    The project objective is to conserve Georgian biodiversity through the creation of three ecologically
and socially sustainable protected areas, and to build capacity for mainstreaming biodiversity conservation
into the production landscapes that connect them.
2.     The project would promote conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity of the Caucasus
Mountains, an area that has been identified as one of the 200 globally important ecoregions for terrestrial
biodiversity. Some important indicators of project success are: formulation and implementation of national
policy on sustainable forestry and biodiversity conservation, implementation of landscape-level plans
linking protected areas and commercial forest lands, establishment of an ecologically representative and
viable protected area network that contributes importantly to the goal of protecting at least 10% of
Caucasus forest ecosystems; recovery, through natural regeneration under improved management systems,
of overgrazed forest and steppe habitats; increased population numbers of key threatened species; reduced
hunting of large mammals, and development of nature-based tourism industry around the new national
parks, acting as an incentive to protect biodiversity.
3.     Management plans or management guidelines have been prepared for three protected areas in
eastern Georgia which are the focal points of the project: the proposed Tusheti (115,800 ha) and
Vashlovani National Parks (44,796 ha) and Lagodekhi Nature Reserve, which would be expanded under
the project (from 17,932 to 25,400 ha). These protected areas form an altitudinal gradient from 100 to
4000 meters elevation comprising alpine, montane, and lowland forest, and arid lands. The sites contain
some of Georgia's most important and threatened biodiversity, including critical habitat for unique large
mammal fauna. The PIP contains a summary of the biodiversity values and threats for each protected area.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.87 million
Support Protected Areas Planning
4.     Component Objectives. Component I has two objectives in supporting protected area planning in
Georgia: to support development of a detailed plan for biodiversity conservation and forest conservation for
the Central Caucasus planning region, and to support corridor conservation planning in Eastem Georgia.
5.    Key Assumptions. There is support for the project's planning activities within two consultative
groups in place to guide them. The Protected Areas Development project's involvement is governed by a
Steering Committee, currently comprised of 16 representatives of stakeholders from the executive,
legislative, and scientific branches of Georgian government. A smaller group with stronger local
representation, the Central Caucasus Commission, was established under the Forestry Development
Project. Successful implementation of these planning initiatives under the project would require: (i) strong
commitment from the Department of Protected Areas, Ministry of Environment, and the Department of
Forestry; and (ii) technical assistance to the consultative bodies and the technical teams on implementing
the activities.
6.    Expected Results. The planning activities would yield: (i) a protected area plan for the Central
- 33 -



Caucasus planning region which emphasizes multiple use management objectives, endorsed by the
govemment; and (ii) two corridor plans which would link management activities within protected areas with
those on adjacent state forest and pasture lands.
Prepare Protected Area Plan for the Central Caucastus Mountains Ecoregion
7.     The Central Caucasus Mountains Ecoregion is located on the southem slopes of the Greater
Caucasus Mountains, bounded by the Nakra River to the west and Mamisoni Pass to the east. The 7,430
sq. km region is within the administrative districts of Oni, Ambrolauri, Tsageri, Lentekhi and Mestia, and
represents three historical provinces of Racha, Lechkhumi and Svaneti. The region covers an elevational
range of 700-4,000 m, and possesses unique biological, landscape, and cultural diversity, a number of
endemic species of flora and fauna, and fragile forest and alpine habitats and ecosystems. To date, no
protected areas have yet been officially designated in Central Caucasus Mountain ecoregion, adding to its
vulnerability. Because of its importance and diversity, the ecoregion has been designated as a model a-ea
(also called the "laboratory zone") for joint activities to be financed by the Protected Areas Development
Project and the Forestry Development Project (now under preparation).
8.    A Caucasus Working Group, comprised of technical specialists from the key govemmental
stakeholders (Department of Forestry, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of
Protected Areas, and Academy of Science), would be responsible for implementing the Central Caucasus
Protected Area Planning component and adopting its final report. The working groups would be financed
by the Forestry Development Project (for forest management inputs) and the Protected Areas Development
project (for biodiversity conservation inputs) would develop the report under the direction of the
Commission:
9.     Three activities would be carried out jointly by the Protected Areas Development Project and tile
Forestry Development Project:
i)    A stocktaking group of specialists would carry out inventories and analyses of the
landscape diversity, biodiversity, forest resources, and social baselines in the five districts
of the planning region. The Protected Areas Development Project would finance the
biodiversity studies, share the costs of the landscape studies with the forestry project, ;..nd
undertake a social assessment for Mestia District. This social assessment would complete
a similar study already carried out for the other four districts of the ecoregion under th,
preparation phase of the forestry project. The analyses would provide recommendations
for the ecoregional protected area plan with various categories of protected areas select ed
based on biodiversity significance, forest resources, ecosystem stability, fragility, carrying
capacity, and connectivity.
ii)    A policy/legal group would rationalize the mandates of the Framework Law on Protectzd
Areas and the Forest Code. This group would be responsible for analyzing the regulat: ons
and requirements for protected areas, including, inter alia, those defined in the Framework
Law on Protected Areas and the Forest Code. The group would prepare recommendations
to the Caucasus Working Group regarding harmonization and rationalization of policies
and classifications regarding land-use, resource-use and protected areas under the currm nt
Georgian forestry and protected area laws. The outcome of the activity would be
harmonized categories of protected areas for forest protection and use that would be
adopted nationally.
- 34 -



iii)    A management planning group would develop a multiple use protected area plan for the
region, and management plan guidelines for the individual categories of protected areas
present in the planning region. The regional plan may also include individual protected
areas managed by local authorities. All such plans would be developed through public
consultations and would include a definition of specific management objectives based on
the balance of interests of conservation and local user communities, site-specific boundary
designation, description of management regimes and responsibilities, and action plans for
their implementation. The Forestry Development Project would then prepare management
plans for priority protected areas under its mandate. The Department of Protected Areas
would finalize management plans for the three protected areas in eastern Georgia (under
Component 2), and would seek altemative financing (not under this project) for
preparation of management plans in the Central Caucasus region.
Prepare and Implement Corridor Plans in the Eastern Caucasus Mountains
10.    The project would implement biodiversity conservation activities in two habitat corridors: one in
floodplain forests and the other in alpine pastures.
11.    Floodplain forests. The project would demonstrate improved management and restoration
activities for alluvial floodplain forests along the Alazani River near Lagodekhi. The activities to be
financed are: (i) an inventory (biodiversity, forests and wetlands, hydrology, and local uses) at a pilot site
(a 7,000 ha fragment, and one of the largest remaining fragments of alluvial forest in Georgia); (ii)
preparation of guidelines for multiple use protected area management plans, (iii) preparation of a
management plan for the pilot floodplain forest and implementation of key activities to balance forest
protection and use; (iv) preparation of a landscape-level analysis of the condition of floodplain forests
along the 170km Alazani River corridor from Lagodekhi to the Azerbaijan border, with targeted field
studies to identify specific needs and opportunities for improved forest protection. The biological field
studies for this activity would be undertaken through the UNDP-financed Medium Sized Project (Arid and
Semi-Arid Ecosystem Conservation in the Caucasus) now under implementation; and (v) two national
conferences on the state of floodplain forests in the Caucasus region to understand the magnitude of the
problems, share management prescriptions such as those developed under the project, and raise awareness
of the need for replicating such efforts elsewhere in Georgia and the region.
12.    Eastern Caucasus Mountain corridor planning. The strict Nature Reserves (zapovedniks) and
proposed national parks which would receive assistance under the project are necessary, but not sufficient,
instruments to conserve the region's biodiversity. In addition to improved protected areas management, it
is necessary to mainstream biodiversity conservation into the forest and pasture "production landscape."
To promote landscape management in the Eastem Caucasus, the project would assist stakeholders to
identify and develop management strategies for key corridor areas, which provide critical habitat for
globally threatened species such as the Dagestan tur, Caucasian black grouse and Caucasian snow cock.
Activities would be undertaken jointly by the Department of Protected Areas, Department of Forestry, and
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, and would include:
i) mapping vegetation community types and rapid biological assessment;
ii) developing a GIS-assisted GAP analysis, which would identify key corridors needed to
maintain migration routes or preserve biodiversity within the protected areas;
iii) undertaking field studies of ecosystem patterns and processes, the life history and limiting
- 35 -



factors of target species such as Dagestan tur, Caucasian black grouse, and Caucasian snow
cock. This would require assessing the distribution, abundance, movements, and home ranges
of target species based on telemetry and observations of habitat selection and food
habits/nutrition;
iv) assessing population parameters for target species. This would require observation of such
indicators as reproduction and survival rates, age structure and life history parameters, and
behavior (e.g., object flight distance);
v) assessing human interactions and ecology. Assess grazing systems and develop acceptable
mitigations for altering livestock stocking rates and hunting zones, based on consultations with
key stakeholders (shepherds, local government, and Ministry of Agriculture); and
vi) developing and implementing conservation strategies for priority corridors, based on differ nt
levels of enforcement, education and training and no-hunting zones.
Project Component 2 - US$7.20 million
Establish Protected Areas Management and Build Awareness of Biodiversity Conservation
13.    Component Objectives. The objective of this component is to develop protected areas at three sites
in eastern Georgia which are effective in conserving the region's rich biodiversity and in generating revenue
for local communities and park maintenance.
14.    Key Assumptions. The success of this component relies on continued support from Government
and local communities, and on strengthening the capacity of the administrations of the three target protected
areas.
15.    Expected Results. The expected results of this component are: (i) improved public sector
management of biodiversity from technical, social, and financial perspectives; (ii) infrastructure in plac-
that meets basic needs of park resource and visitor management; (iii) user group associations established
and operational as focal points for collaborative protected areas management and capacity building
exercises; (iv) transparent regulatory system for forest and pasture use in place; (v) increase in number of
visitors to the protected areas; and (v) revenue generation system for financing recurrent investment costs
tested.
Finalization of Management Plans
16.    Management plans for the proposed Tusheti and Vashlovani national parks and Lagodekhi Reserve
were drafted under project preparation. Early in project implementation, these plans would be finalized
based on technical resource management inputs and on consultations with local stakeholders. Finalizat. on
of the plans would be based in part on data on biodiversity and resource management issues for each
protected area, which would be collected and analyzed early in project implementation.
Undertake Studies to Improve Park and Resource Management
17.    The project would finance monitoring and applied research to fill major gaps in the existing
information on the biodiversity of the protected areas necessary for park zoning; to guide park
management, and to evaluate the results of management actions.
- 36 -



i)    Development of the information base. Development of accurate resource maps of the
park, including vegetation types, elevations, animal migration routes, sightings/locations of
key species, etc. This activity would include inventories of plants and animals and wild
landraces of genetically important species.
ii)    Assessment of livestock carrying capacity and pasture monitoring. The project would
develop and implement grazing management plans to effect the restoration of alpine
meadow and steppe ecosystems, and reduce competition with tur.
iii)    Applied studies, which inform management decisions. Applied studies of target species
and plant and animal communities would be carried out to inform better management
decision-making. The target species would be selected on the basis of their usefulness as
indicators of ecosystem health and on the staffs capacity and experience.
iv)    Visitor impacts. The management plan identifies areas where recreational, research, and
resource use activities are allowed. The project would finance technical assistance,
studies, and workshops to develop and implement a visitor management program which
links basic monitoring functions (e.g., intensity and type of visitor use, habitat disturbance,
soil compression), and develop and implement best practices for their mitigation (visitor
education, rotational use of campsites, and restrictions).
Support Professional Development in Protected Areas Management
18.   The project would finance professional development in three areas:
i)    Protected area management training. Training in protected areas management planning
would be delivered through the U.S. National Park Service technical assistance program.
This would include implementation of sister park relationships and onsite courses in forest
and range management, and visitor management and interpretation.
ii)    Ranger training. Rangers would be trained in patrolling and enforcement, and working
with local communities and user groups to build understanding and support for proper
management of the protected area.
iii)    Business planning. Each of the protected areas would be involved in income-generating
activities from tourism (entrance fees, the sale of books) and natural resource use fees (use
fees for the use of pasture and forest resources within the park). The use of this income
would be managed by each park administration through a revenue account. The park
administration would receive assistance to develop and implement a business plan. The
business plan would be updated annually, and would serve as a focus for defining and
improving the services of the park, engaging the private sector in partnerships (e.g.,
concessions), setting prices, and maintaining an adequate financial management system.
This activity would be implemented in coordination with the capacity building in public
sector management provided through the institutional development component of the
project.
Establish Park Infrastructure
19.   The project would fund the infrastructure for establishing and managing the three protected areas
- 37 -



as a necessary means to achieving the project's objectives of biodiversity conservation and promotion if
sustainable regional development. The infrastructure would include establishment of the park and reserve
boundaries, and construction of an administration and visitors center, guard stations, roadway gates,
checkpoints, and visitor management facilities. The project would also fund the removal of dilapidated
structures currently found within the proposed national parks. The design for the protected area
infrastructure would be consistent with traditional architectural styles of the region.
Establish Nature Based Tourism Infrastructure
20.    The project would develop tourism as a means of promoting awareness and enjoyment of the
protected areas, and to generate income for operational costs. A comprehensive hiking and horseback
riding trail system connecting new lodges/shelters, local existing accommodations, and campsites have been
mapped out in the project protected areas to create a 'Caucasus Mountain Trail Experience' for tourisr.s.
These trails vary in difficulty and length and are designed to serve a broad market of local and foreign
nature tourists. The quality of the trail system would be standardized, whenever possible, and the
hiking/horse back riding in the three different areas is designed to complement each other and can be
marketed either as separate destinations or as a comprehensive "High Caucasus Trail" experience. In
addition to trails and accommodations, infrastructure such as observation platforms, compost toilets,
drinking water access and information/ interpretation infrastructure would be built.
Build Local Awareness
21.   A community outreach program would build awareness of the project and its accomplishments, and
promote the participation of local communities in the project. The program would include preparation and
distribution of video films and slide shows on the protected areas and an education program for teachers
and students. The film series would popularize conservation issues in the protected area and its suppolt
zone, and relate these to conservation issues on the national, regional and global levels. The films and slide
shows would be tools used in the education program delivered by the protected areas staff. The educat: on
program would provide school teachers in the Support Zone with training and 'tool-kits' for environmental
education activities to be incorporated into the curriculum. Because the contracts for these activities would
be procured as a package for all three protected areas, the costs are summarized under Component C (for
central DPA).
Undertake Socioeconomic Monitoring to Inform Management Plan Implementation
22.   The integration of biodiversity conservation with traditional and nontraditional economic activities
is necessary to achieve the project objectives. Social assessments to measure local dependence and impact
on the Eastem Caucasus and lori plateau ecosystems were undertaken as part of project preparation, ar.d
monitoring of socioeconomic indicators would continue throughout implementation. The project would
monitor the attitudes and needs of local stakeholders and communities and provide feedback on the
implementation of project activities (education and awareness, enforcement, grazing management,
development of nature based tourism). The project would provide professional development and training to
DPA in social assessments and human ecology studies, and fund the implementation of socioeconomic
monitoring at each of the project sites and dissemination of results.
Integrate Protected Area Plans into Regional and Local Plans
23.    Creation or expansion of the protected areas and finalization of their management plans would
require updates and changes to municipal master plans and regional territorial plans. The project would
- 38 -



finance the studies, reports, and workshops for making these changes, which are needed to harmonize the
protected areas and local and regional development plans.
Implement Small Grants Program for Biodiversity-Friendly Activities
24.    The small grants program would: (i) support the activities by local communities and NGOs which
promote biodiversity conservation in the protected areas and their support zones, and (ii) build awareness
and support among local communities of the project and the role of extra-governmental in achieving these.
25.    The program would be administered by a group of individual consultants selected based on their
experience in biodiversity conservation, sustainable development, and poverty alleviation. The consultants
contracted by the PIU to administer the project would: (i) prepare and disseminate the Small Grants
Guidelines, including description, scoring and selection criteria, and call for proposals; (ii) hold workshops
with local communities to build understanding of the objectives and criteria for selection and
administration; (iii) monitor implementation of the individual grant contracts, and (iv) publish a biannual
summaries of the competition, including descriptions of proposals received and selected, and the basis for
their selection; and (iv) organize a conference and awards program in years 3 and 6 of the project for
participants in the program to review results and disseminate the lessons learned.
26.    Individual grants would be made on a competitive basis, and selected by the consultants
administering the program, operating under transparent criteria and procedures. The eligibility criteria for
individual projects would include direct support of protected area and conservation management objectives.
The final payment for the grant award would require a brief report to the PIU that summarizes the project
results of the project and use of funds.
27.    The consultant group would chair an advisory committee comprised of Georgian NGOs,
representatives of three protected areas, the Department of Protected Areas, and the Ministry of
Enviromnent. Activities must be within the project protected areas and their defined support zones.
NGOs, local businesses, local administration, family groups, individuals and local communities would be
eligible, but not staff of the government agencies engaged in project implementation or on the advisory
committee. Details on the activities to be financed would be developed in year 1 of the project, but are
expected to include:
i)  support for the recovery of endemic livestock varieties (e.g., Tusheti horse)
ii) small scale habitat restoration or cleanup activities
iii) an environmental summer camp for children
iv) public education and awareness for biodiversity conservation using film, publications, and
other media
v) assistance to local communities in sharing the benefits of the protected areas such as through
tourism-promoting activities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.50 million
Component C. Reorganize and Strengthen the Department of Protected Areas
28.    The management of protected areas developed under the FSU emphasized strict protection and
- 39 -



research. This approach to protected areas management was appropriate when Georgian forests were
managed for protection, and timber and timber products were obtained from Russia. Under the transilion,
Georgia is increasingly turning to its forests and other natural resources to meet domestic demand and to
generate exports. Under Georgia's developing market conditions, there is a need to expand both the size
and mandate of protected areas management to better address issues in the sustainable use of natural
resources and the role of National Parks and other protected areas in promoting the country's tourism
potential.
29.    Component Objectives. The objective of this component is to restructure and strengthen the
Department of Protected Areas to update its mandate (assist in the protection and use of the country's
landscape and biological diversity, focusing on the development of multiple use protected areas) and
implement this mandate.
30.   Key Assumptions. The success of this component would require partnerships with protected
areas/natural resources management organizations in other countries, such as has been established witL the
U.S. National Park Service. This partnership is planned to continue during implementation.
31.   Expected Results. (i) improved public sector management for protected areas, with organizational
mandate, structure, and function more responsive to proactive management needs, and (ii) awareness in side
and outside Georgia of tourism opportunities in the Caucasus mountains.
Support to Institutional Reorganization
32.    Under the project, DPA would manage a larger protected area system with the full range of IUCN
protection categories (e.g., national parks, protected landscapes, etc.), expanding the role of protected areas
in regional sustainable development. A concept for reorganization was initiated with collaboration of the
DPA and U.S. National Park Service. During the first year of project implementation, the mission and
mandate of the DPA would be finalized based on the collaborations initiated during preparation, and would
be adopted through a Presidential Decree.
33.   The proposed divisional structure which would meet the three main functions of the DPA:
operations, planning, and administration. The Division of Operations would be responsible for establishing
operational policies and programs for resource and visitor management, enforcement, and outreach, as well
as ensuring their consistent implementation by individual protected areas administrations. The Division of
Planning would be responsible the development of system and unit management plans and maintaining the
land status, inventory and monitoring data bases using Geographic Information System (GIS) technology.
The Division of Administration would be responsible for preparing and executing the annual DPA budget,
managing and monitoring all procurement, maintenance and reporting of the financial management system,
and carrying out analyses of revenue generation and tourism trends. Briefjob descriptions of the
professional positions at the DPA headquarters are found in Attachment I * of the Project Implementaticn
Plan.
Build Capacity of the DPA to Administer the System ofProtected Areas
34.   A training program would be implemented to build capacity and experience for all professionals in
the DPA. The key topics for training are:
* Protected areas administration: The core administrative staff (director, deputy director, and
program heads for protection, and accounting) would receive training in park administration
- 40 -



through courses and mentoring by the U.S. National Park Service in country and in the U.S.
The output of the training would be an operation and administration plan, including job
descriptions for all staff.
*  Revenue account management. The laws creating new protected areas give the park
administration the legal capacity to collect financial and economic resources, to retain them,
and to allocate them to activities and sectors related to the management of the park. Technical
assistance would be provided to develop an operational plan for the creation and use of the
revenue account. The plan would address issues of govemance of account use, proportion of
revenue to be redistributed by central DPA, transparency, and auditing and reporting
requirements. The first revenue account would be developed in year 2 of the project. The
management of Project funds would be according to World Bank financial management
requirements, and would be entirely separate from the revenue account. Administration
financial staff would receive training to develop a computer-based financial recording and
reporting system for financial and capital assets of the DPA. This system would be separate
from the financial management system maintained for the Project expenditures. The project
would also finance technical assistance for assessing the feasibility of developing a national
park fund, which could receive financing from corporate or other sources.
*  Technical training in protected areas and resource management. Appropriate staff from DPA
headquarters would participate in the technical training in protected areas and resource
management, which would be delivered through Component B for the three protected areas.
*  Computer operations and GIS. The DPA staff would be trained in basic computer skills,
development and operation of a PC-based GIS, and the development and maintenance of a
DPA website.
*  Tourism marketing and development: The project would finance technical assistance to the
Department of Protected Areas to develop and implement a business plan for nature based
tourism, working in partnership with the private sector, communities in the park support zones,
and the national park administrations. This business plan would address first the DPA's role
in assistance to development of Georgia's tourism industry. Individual action plans would be
identified for the central Department of Protected Areas and the three project sites (Vashlovani
and Tusheti National Parks, Lagodekhi Reserve).
* Monitoring. Training workshops would be developed for national experts from the
Department of Protected Areas, counterparts in the Department of Forestry and Ministry of
Environment, and scientists in the Academy of Sciences to develop a biodiversity monitoring
action plan with linkages to national policy and management decisions.
Develop and Implement a Biodiversity Monitoring Program for the Project Protected Areas
35.   The project would develop and implement standardized protocols for biodiversity monitoring in the
project protected areas and the corridors which connect them to improve knowledge of the baseline
conditions, assess the effectiveness of the project's improved management practices, and establish a long
term strategy and capacity for biodiversity monitoring.
36.   A scientific research panel established under project preparation developed a list of other target
species based on criteria such as ecological significance, sensitivity to environmental change, ease of
- 41 -



measurement, and existence of technical expertise within Georgia. Building on these recommendations, the
project would prepare and implement a monitoring program which includes the distribution and abundance
of target species and landscape level analyses of forest fragmentation and pasture and steppe conditions.
With regard to the target species, tur, Caucasian black grouse, and lammergeier were selected for detailed
baseline studies and monitoring because of their importance in the eastern Caucasian ecosystem addressed
by the project, and because of their threatened status in Georgia and the region. These studies are incl aded
under Component 2 of the project.
37.   Under the project, the monitoring action plan would be finalized and monitoring protocols such as
point counts of birds and mammals, aerial counts, scat counts/transects, and mapping of rare and
endangered plant species with restricted distributions would be implemented. The action plan would aiso
include landscape level analyses of forests and pastures, the implementation of which would include rernote
sensing techniques. Satellite imagery would be used to develop a spatial and temporal information sys:em
to identify land degradation as a result of overgrazing and deforestation in selected areas of the Eastern
Caucasus ecosystem.
Develop Informational Materials for Visitors
38.   The project would finance preparation of booklets, calendars, posters, field guides on Georgian
biodiversity (e.g., the birds of Georgia, birds and flora of individual parks), and other informational
materials on the natural and cultural landscapes of the protected areas, and the efforts for their
conservation. These materials would be used for educational purposes in working with visitors and the
local communities.
39.   The capacity of DPA headquarters staff would also be strengthened through the provision of
equipment, including transport (cars and four wheel drive vehicles), communications (stationery and
portable radios as well as fax and computer equipment including printers and software), office (photocopier
and backup power supplies), and related operating funds. This activity would be supplemented by training
in computer operations.
Project Component 4 - US$0.73 million
Project Management
40.   The project would finance the operating costs of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) located
within the Department of Protected Areas. The PIU will be responsible for contracting for the delivery of
goods, works, and consultant services to implement the project, and will work under the direction of the
same multi-sectoral steering committee which was formed to guide project preparation. The PIU staff will
include a project director, financial management specialist, an additional accountant if required, and one or
more procurement specialists.
- 42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Gea
RdbdbdMMDw"Tw
ErdnTo                                                                 Loca
Facility      Gtamwnuit        USAE             Tdd                   cxd    DWAS &
Aitruu     %     Afmrut    %   Aix       %      Anmu      %    F,. EdL  Tam1)   To
A lNleldAmees Flankg
CmsPlan                                        2792    82.4    59.8   17.6       -      -      339.0    3.3    232.9     463      59.8
EasnCaasmCanctrParPg                           443.0    83A     880    166       -      -      5310    5.2     1386    3044       88.0
WuilPnckcdA  AnsIPbeV                           722.3    83.0    147.8   17.0      -      -     870.1    8.5    3715    350.8   1478
B, BoyriyCmMnMmmw
1. L4deldiNaue le
Pakl   n, &-yn-tert&manu*                   1,071.1    86.3    161.3   130    8.3    0.7   1240.7   12.1      599.8    4928    1481
SptZoreAAdces                                390.3   93.8    25.8    62        -      -      416.1    4.0     18.2    372.1     25.8
&blolal agotbift N ele Rmw                   1,461.4   88.2    187.1   11.3    63    0.5   1,6568   16.1       618.0    864.9    173.9
2 Tush  Nabonal Pa*
PaKpolidn, ,v-Nt&n                          Z0735    80.3    4432    17.2   665    2.6    2563.1   25.1   1,11&3   1,1333    3315
Suppt2reAdies                                4458    93.3    32.0    6.7       -       -     477.7   4.6      21.6    424.2    320
SubltalTusiebNalInPak                        2,519.2    82.3   4751    155    66.5    22    3,06D9    29.8   1,139.8  1,567.5    3635
3 Vadivari Nakona Paik
Parptekdt mrgentadrdmmnbrg                  1,631.9    83.5    256.7   13.1   66.5    34    1,9552    19.0    99Z7    729.0    2334
SLixptZrne Advtes                            483.4    92.9    367    7.1       -       -     520.1   5.1      22A    461.1      36.7
SW.tVaaiNiNonalPar                           2,115.3    85.5   293A    11.9   66.5    2.7    Z4753   24.1   1,015.1   1,19       270.1
SuebBNi ty CoserronMa isst                     6,0960    84.7   9557    13.3  1413    2.0   7,193.0   699    Z773.0  3,6125    8075
C   w1henDtWnert cP       medAe                1,255.9   86.1    2366    159       -      -    1,49Q5    14.5    634.4    655.8    2023
D  R*cdMa-Wrt                                   6264    859    1030    141         -      -     7294    7.1       97.7    537.0    94.7
TodDistement                                   8,700.5    84.6  1,443.1   14.0  141.3    1.4  10,24.9  100.0   3,876.5  5,156.1   152i3
Georgia
Protected Areas Development
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$)
Totals Including Contingencies
2001       2002        2003      2004    2005    2006         Total
A. Protected Areas Planning
Caucases Plan                                               111.4      115.0        99.2      4.4      4.5      4.6        339.0
Eastern Caucasus Corridor Planning                           57.1      180.0       127.5     96.4     70.0         -       531.0
Subtotal Protected Areas Planning                             168.5      295.0       226.7    100.7     74.5       4.6       870.1
B. Biodiversity Conservation Management
1. Lagodekhi Nature Reserve
Park protection, management & monitonng                  288.7       428.2      355.3      54.7     72.4     41.5      1,240.7
Support Zone Activities                                    14.9      106.4       76.7      72.7     77.8     67.6        416.1
Subtotal Lagodekhi Nature Reserve                           303.6      534.5      432.0    127.4    150.2   109.1        1,656.8
2. Tusheti National Park
Park protection, management & monitorng                  589.1       602.6      951.4    191.7    168.7      79.6      2,583.1
Support Zone Activities                                    19.7      115.5       90.7      83.4     89.9     78.6        477.7
Subtotal Tusheti National Park                              608.7      718.2    1,042.0   275.1    258.6    158.2        3,060.9
3. Vashlovani National Park
Park protection, management and monitorng                263.5       545.2      863.6    103.9    118.0    61.1        1,955.2
Support Zone Activities                                    17.5      168.4       99.9      77.7     82.8     73.8        520.1
Subtotal Vashlovani National Park                           281.0      713.5       963.5    181.6    200.8    134.9      2,475.3
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation Management               1,1934      1,966.3    2,437.5    584.1    609.6    402.2       7,193.0
C. Strengthen Department of Protected Areas                   304.1      373.8       386.0    199.5     96.0    133.1       1,492.5
D. ProjectManagement                                          132.8      101.7       148.2    114.2    114.4    118.1        729.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          1,798.7    2,736.8    3,198.5    998.6    894.4   657.9    10,284.9
- 43 -



Gegia
RodNW M DsveWmert
DmxbusAccotmb by Fhwieis
Gloa E*rmnt                                                                        Loa
Facit            Gowemirt          USAD               Tdal                    (Exd.   >utles &
Anictvi     %      AnioiLa    %    Anowr    %         AnwoLit     %     For. Exdh.   Tans)    Tans
Works                            1,747.5    80.0    436.9    20.0        -       -    2,184.4    21.2      414.9   1,332.7     436.9
GOCtIS                           2259.1      95.7     101.4    4.3       -       -    2,360.5    23.0    1,856.6     402.5      1014
CS                               2,625.3    80.0    656.3    200         -       -    3,281.6    31.9    1,075.0   1,50.3      656.3
Trair*, Wa*ishops Toaxs            573A      80.2        -       -   141.3    19.8       714.7    6.9       4582     256.5         -
Sub- ans                           875.0    100.0        -       -       -       -       875.0    8.5          -     875.0         -
Inremertal Operarnig ost           620.3     90.0     68.9    10.0       -       -       689.2    6.7       71.7     568.7      48.8
Rec,#rert Costs                       -        -      179.6   100.0   _          -       179.6     1.7         -     170.6       9.0
Total                               8,700.5    84.6   1,443.1    14.0   141.3     1.A   10,284.9   100.0    3,876.5   5,156.1   1252.3
- 44 -



Annex 4
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
Overview
1.    The general objective of the GEF Alternative is to conserve biodiversity in the Caucasus
ecosystems of Georgia. The project development objective is to conserve Georgian biodiversity through the
creation of three ecologically and socially sustainable protected areas, and to build capacity for
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the production landscapes that connect them. The GEF
Alternative will (i) support protected areas planning in the Central and Eastern Caucasus; (ii) establish
protected areas management and build awareness of biodiversity conservation at three sites in the Eastem
Caucasus; and (iii) reorganize and strengthen the Department of Protected Areas to conserve and manage
biodiversity. This will include establishing ecologically effective protected areas, integrating biodiversity
conservation into forestry and range management inside and outside of protected areas, improve monitoring
of threatened flora and fauna, and effect their recovery, and improving public awareness of Georgian
biodiversity. The GEF Alternative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of US$ 8.7
million to be financed by the GEF. The proposed GEF Altemative should be viewed as complementary to
ongoing activities in the Georgian Caucasus region.
Context and Development Goals
2.     Georgia, a mountainous country covering 70,000 km2 with a population of 5.5 million people, is
situated between the south slope of the Caucasus Mountains, the east coast of the Black Sea and the
northern edge of the Turkish Anatolia plane. Forests cover 40% of the country, largely in the Greater
Caucasus Mountains (Georgia's northern border), the Lesser Caucasus (its southern border), and in
intervening lowlands and foothills. The principal landscapes of the Caucasus include foothill and mountain
forests and sub-alpine meadows of the Greater and Lesser Caucasus; treeless mountain upland plateaus of
the lesser Caucasus; humid lowland forests of western Georgia, and the arid steppe of eastern Georgia. In
the project region between the Caucasus Major and Minor ranges of central and eastem Georgia, the flora
and fauna of at least three biogeographic provinces converge, resulting in high levels of biodiversity. In
this region are found species typical of Europe (e.g., bear, lynx, chamois, red deer), Central Asia (e.g.,
Caucasian tur or mountain goat, leopard), and the Middle East regions (e.g., hyena, gazelle). The varied
terrain and climatic conditions contribute to a diversity of ecosystems.
3.    The project and surrounding Caucasus region has been identified by the World Wide Fund for
Nature's Global 200 Ecoregions program, based on the region's species richness, levels of endemism,
taxonomic uniqueness, unusual evolutionary phenomena, and global rarity of Major Habitat Types. These
ecosystems and the flora and fauna within them are under threat as a result forest harvesting, illegal
hunting, overgrazing, agriculture and fishing. Converting the legal status of protection from existing
Nature Reserves to expanded Protected Areas and drafting and implementing management plans of these
areas will be critical to halting these threats to the ecosystem.
4.     The broad development goals of Georgia focus on public sector restructuring; private sector
development; social protection and poverty reduction; and environmental protection. The Government's
overall development agenda attempts to focus on these issues consolidating the stabilization recently
achieved, strengthening the current economic recovery while protecting the environment. The Government
- 45 -



of Georgia has taken important steps toward improved environmental management in recent years,
including the development of a national strategies, recently approved framework environmental legislation
and the development of specific environmental laws underneath this framework, activities under the Black
Sea Environmental Program and some specific actions under the World Bank-financed Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant is helping the
Government to prepare its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) currently in draft form, designed
to detail environmental priorities, set the basis for future cooperation, and strengthen the Ministry of
Environment, while at the same time a Bank/GEF Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan is also being prepared.
Environmental improvements will still face institutional challenges such as gaining cooperation from
governmental agencies with no previous history/capacity in dealing with these issues, promoting public
awareness, and building partnerships with NGOs. With World Bank and GEF support, the Govemment
intends to preserve Georgia's rich environmental diversity and natural resources base for future generations
by implementing the recently approved environmental legislation. The country's natural resources, such as
the forests, will need to be appropriately managed to reduce illegal harvesting and damage, while
appropriate commercialization policies fostering renewal and growth could allow for a new source of
foreign exchange earnings.
Baseline Scenario
5.    The collapse of the Soviet Union in late 1991 and the attendant disruption in institutions that
managed the economy until then has forced the Georgian economy into a tailspin. The civil salary structure
is currently very low. It is in these difficult conditions that Georgia is attempting to establish the
foundations of a market economy. The task is especially daunting because Georgia started the
transformation virtually from scratch: existing institutions are ill suited to a market based economy, anc
there is a dearth of people who know and understand how the transition to a market economy is to be
managed. Yet, unlike many of the other countries of the former Soviet Union, Georgia has a long tradition
of high levels of education and entrepreneurship which should serve it well during the transition. The
medium term prospects for the economy are good, based on robust growth in exports. There is a solid
potential in agriculture, and services are likely to develop strongly. With appropriate macroeconomic
stabilization policies and structural reformns, this potential can be achieved.
6.     Since the transition, unsustainable timber harvesting, grazing, and game hunting have accelerated,
and now pose a major threat to Georgia's diverse and abundant biodiversity. In addition, since the
transition and the associated economic decline, local peoples are increasingly seeking to reestablish
traditionalVhistorical land uses that were disrupted for over 70 years under the former Soviet Union. In
response to these activities, the Government of Georgia has begun to act to protect important natural
resources and to preserve biodiversity.
7.     Under the Baseline Scenario, it is expected that the Government of Georgia expenditures related to
ecosystems management biodiversity conservation in the project area over the period of the project will tie
US $1.4 million through the Department of Protected Areas and Department of Forest Management annual
budgets.
8.    A number of natural resource management and biodiversity conservation activities in Georgia are
being financed by other international developing agencies, or will be under implementation through
proposed IDA projects. These plus Government of Georgia contributions are summarized in the
Incremental Cost Analysis matrix and discussed below:
- 46 -



1. The US$20 million World Bank Forestry Development Project under preparation is
expected to have considerable direct biodiversity conservation benefits, addressing the root
causes of forest biodiversity loss by promoting forest policy reform, preparing and
implementing model sustainable forest management plans, and building the capacity to plan,
better regulate, and monitor forest harvesting and sustainable use. The components related to
these issues are valued at $18 million. The additional $2 million will contribute specifically
towards forestry planning in the Central Caucasus and inclusion of biodiversity objectives in
forest management plans in production forests, and is considered part of the incremental cost
of the GEF altemative. Approximately $100,000 of the $350,000 PHRD preparation grant for
this project was spent on preparing the framework the activities in the Central Caucasus and is,
therefore, also considered part of the Baseline.
ii. Under the US$7.6 million World Bank Coastal Zone Management Project, US$3.3 million
is being spent to improve protection and management of threatened forest and wetland natural
habitats by establishing Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve.
iii. Components of the WWF Georgia Conservation Environmental Education and
Conservation Programs which can be expected to bring specific biodiversity benefits to the
project region in planning, protection policy and transboundary cooperation are estimated at
US $887,000.
iv. UNDP Environmental Capacity-Building Project. The project will strengthen MoE,
especially in areas of information management and communication and professional
development and training activities at national, regional, district, and municipal levels. The
project also supports public awareness on environmentally related issues. The project
activities which are expected to have specific positive benefits for biodiversity are estimated at
US$25,000.
v. A management plan for Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park has been prepared by WWF.
Implementation of the plan is estimated to cost DM2.2 million / US$1.08 million and will
support activities to protect this important wilderness area through cooperative management
between support zone communities and the protected area management team. A separate
environmental education program, to support management at Borjomi-Kharagauli, will be
funded by KfW (DM1.6 million / $0.79 million).
vi. The UNDP Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystem Conservation in the Caucasus Medium Sized
Project will conserve highly threatened arid and semi-arid ecosystems in the Caucasus through
participatory planning and sustainable management of natural resources. The whole project is
expected to have significant benefits for protection of biodiversity in the Eastern Caucasus.
Total project costs are $878,200, including contributions from GEF ($750,000), FFI
($30,000), GoG (S12,000) and NACRES ($45,200 and $41,000 in kind).
9.    Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at $US 26.47 million
including US$1.41 million from the Government of Georgia, US$22.18 million through international
cooperation, and US$2.88 million from national and international NGOs.
10.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in improvements to the protection
and management of biodiversity within the proposed protected areas and public awareness of the need for
- 47 -



biodiversity conservation. NGO efforts will serve to increase awareness of threats to biodiversity in the
region and establish management plans for their protection in the project region. The Baseline Scenario
will also address issues of capacity building within the Ministry of Environment and the elementary
protection of the existing Nature Reserve areas. However, due to the extensive planning and investments
needs to stabilize the status of biodiversity in the region during the period of transition, existing
government resources and international financing efforts directed to forest biodiversity will not ensure
protection of globally significant biodiversity in the expanded designated areas. In terms of protecting
biodiversity in the Caucasus region, it is unlikely that the limited expenditures will have a significant
impact on continuing damage to these fragile habitats.
Global Environmental Objective
11.    The GoG ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in June 1994. The World Bank / GEF
National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan (BSAP), finished in June, 2000, identifies the project region as
a center of Georgian biodiversity, and the project activities as the highest priority for improving the
protection of the threatened Caucasus ecosystems. The Forest Sector Strategy, prepared as an input for the
National Environmental Action Plan, identifies the need to develop interdisciplinary forest planning,
including through the integration of biodiversity conservation.
12.    As a consequence of the current course of action, regarded as the Baseline Scenario, Georgia's
diverse and abundant biodiversity will likely continue to suffer from unsustainable timber and fuelwood
harvesting, overgrazing and associated disturbance, illegal hunting, and habitat loss and fragmentation.
13.    Scope. The GEF Alternative would provide the means (above and beyond the Baseline Scenario.,
for expanding the existing Nature Reserves and National Park and drafting and implementing of
management plans. The specific objectives of these management plans are: i) conservation of the
biodiversity of the ecosystems within the project region through protection and management; ii) improved
monitoring and applied research on biodiversity and effectiveness of conservation efforts; iii) establishment
of infrastructure for improved biodiversity protection and development of nature-based tourism in the
region; (iv) preparing and supporting Park administration and management; (v) strengthening public
education and awareness; (vi) improving the integration of biodiversity conservation and range management
outside of the proposed Parks; and (vii) improved coordination in the protection of Caucasus biodiversit'.
14.    Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$38.22 million, detailed as follows:
i. Support Protected Areas Planning: Preparation of protected area and forest planning in the
Central Caucasus, and implementation of corridor plans in the Eastern Caucasus to link
Protected Area management activities with adjacent state forest lands and conserve
biodiversity in the Alazani and Alaverdi floodplains -- US$ 21.00 million (GEF financing -
US$ 0.86 million);
ii. Establish Protected Areas Management and Build Awareness of Biodiversity
Conservation: Finalization of management plans at three protected areas (Tusheti, Lagodekhi
and Vashlovani); resource and monitoring studies to inform park management, including
assessments of livestock carrying capacity and pasture monitoring, applied studies of target
species and plant and animal communities, and assessments of visitor impact; professional
development in protected areas management; establishment of park infrastructure for
establishing and managing the protected areas; development of informative materials for
visitors; socioeconomic monitoring to inform management plan implementation; integration of
- 48 -



protected area plans into regional and local plans; building public awareness and support for
biodiversity conservation; and development of a small grants program for biodiversity friendly
activities -- US$ 9.85 million (GEF financing - US$ 5.81 million);
iii. Reorganize and Strengthen the Department of Protected Areas: Activities for supporting
institutional reorganization of DPA, professional development and training in protected areas
operations and office administration, and development and management of eco-tourism -- US$
6.65 million (GEF financing - US$ 1.34 million);
iv. Project Management: Support for operating costs of a Project Management Unit, located
within DPA. -- US$ 0.72 million (GEF financing US$ 0.69 million).
15.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would provide the means for establishing
effective protected areas and integrating biodiversity conservation objectives into regional and local
development activities. Global benefits would include the recovery of forest and steppe habitats and
protection of endemic threatened flora and fauna and their recovery. Benefits generated from the project
would also include the promotion of local and regional cooperation in biodiversity conservation.
Incremental Costs
16.   The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario US$ 26.47 million and the cost of the
GEF Alternative US$ 38.77 million is estimated at US$ 12.30 million. This represents the incremental
cost for achieving sustainable global enviromnental benefits. Of this amount, the Government of Georgia
has committed to financing US$1.45 million, US$2.0 million is leveraged under the IDA funded Forestry
Development Project as parallel financing, US$0.15 million is leveraged from USAID as co-financing, and
US$8.7 million is requested from GEF.
- 49 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector        Cost         US$         Domestic Benefits          Global Benefits
Category     Million
Support Protected    Baseline      18.13      Improved planning for the
Areas Planning                                sustainability of
production forests.
With GEF       21.00      Increased opportunities  Protection of globally
Alternative               for alternative income   significant biodiv -rsity
generation based on
sustainable utilization of
biodiversity in buffer
zones and protected areas.
Increment      2.87
Establish           Baseline       3.17       Maintained or increased  Limited conservation of
Protected Areas                               flow of forest goods and  globally significant
Management and                                environmental services.  biodiversity in the
Build Awareness                               Some support for         Caucasus Mountains and
for Biodiversity                              altemative income        Iori Plateau.
Conservation                                  generation.
With GEF       10.37     Increased flow of goods   Improved consern ation of
Altemative                and environmental        globally significant
services. Increased      biodiversity in the
opportunities for income  Caucasus Mountains and
generation in rural      Iori Plateau. Increased
communities.             collection and analysis of
information vital ior
conserving endem .c flora
and fauna.
Increment      7.20
Reorganize and      Baseline       5.17       Improved forest policies.
Strengthen the
Department of
Protected Areas
With GEF       6.67      Increased public sector   Increased public se ctor
Altemative               capacity to manage        capacity to protect
protected areas and      biodiversity.
generate income from
tourist-based activities.
- 50 -



Increment      1.50
Project             Baseline       0.00                               Information sharing
Management                                                            between Azerbaijan,
Armenia and Georgia
With GEF       0.73                               Increased joint activities in
Alternative                                       transboundary areas.
Increment      0.73
Totals             Baseline        26.47
With GEF       38.77
Alternative
Increment      12.30
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Years Ending
FY2006
(by FY in US$ million)
| Y Year         2  | Year2  3      Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.7        2.7        3.2        1.0       0.9        0.6
Recurrent Costs             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1       0.1       0.0
Total ProjectCosts           1.7        2.7        3.2        1.0       1.0        0.7       0.0
Total Financing              1.7        2.7        3.2        1.0       1.0        0.7       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.5       2.3        2.8        0.8        0.7       0.6       0.0
Government                 0.1       0.4        0.4        0.2        0.3       0.1
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.1
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.7       2.7        3.2        1.0       1.0       0.7        0.0
Xlain assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures.
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Consulting services, goods and
works financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance to Bank procurement guidelines. All other
procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication
of GPN, and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and BI.
Project Implementation Unit. The Department of Protected Areas (DPA) is the executing agency for this
project. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established within the DPA and currently registered under
Presidential Decree as the Protected Areas Development Center will be responsible for procurement,
accounting, financial reporting and auditing. The PIU will be responsible for (i) the whole cycle of
procurement of all works, goods and services under the project, including filing/record keeping of all
related operations and activities; (ii) assisting the Department of Protected Areas to prepare an annual work
program and budget, which will be approved by the Board; and (iii) coordinating the delivery of technical
assistance provided by the National Park Service and international consultants. The Bank conducted a
financial management capacity assessment and confirmed that the PIU satisfies the Bank's/IDA's minimum
financial management requirements.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. An assessment of the PIU's capacity to implement the project's
procurement plan was carried out in June 2000. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle
management, organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general
procurement enviromnent and made a general risk assessment of the PIU. The review rated the project's
risk with regard to procurement as high. The following actions will be implemented to mitigate this risk: (i)
during the first six months of the project, the PIU procurement specialist should receive assistance from a
procurement consultant contracted under the project, and should complete a procurement training course;
(ii) the project launch workshop should include a comprehensive seminar on procurement and financial
management, including preparation of bidding documents for each type of procurement method proposed in
the Grant agreement; (iii) a book including all the standard bidding documents for relevant procurement
methods should be provided to the PIU prior to project launch; and (iv) supervision missions should include
accredited procurement specialist to post review and resolve pending issues.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The appropriate standard procurement documents
issued by the Bank will be used with the minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
Participation of Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) in procurement of goods and works. GOEs
willing to participate in procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank in this project should meet
the Bank's eligibility criteria: they should be financially and legally autonomous and operate under
commercial law in Georgia. Their status has to be properly clarified by interested GOEs before
participating in any bid under this project.
- 53 -



Procurement of Civil Works (US$2.21 million). Civil works are intended for construction of visitor
centers, entrance buildings, lookout points, boundary markers, boardwalks and daytime tourist facilities at
the three project sites. The following methods of procurement would be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB (US$1.47 million). ICB procedures will be applied to wo-ks
contracts estimated to cost US$0.5 million and above.
National Competitive Bidding or NCB (US$0.41 million). NCB procedures will be applied for work,
contracts estimated to cost below US$0.5 million. For these contracts the ECA Regional Bank standarcd
NCB documents will be used. All efforts should be made to ensure proper advertisement nationally, so that
a wide range of contractors, including foreign contractors, if interested, can have the opportunity to bid
Procurement of Minor Civil Works or MCW (US$0.33 million). Minor civil works contracts with an
estimated cost below US$50,000. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price or unit ra:e
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified local contractors in
response to local advertisement. The bidding document shall include a detailed description of works,
including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement consistent with
the standard document to be cleared by the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for work and who has the experience an i
resources to successfully complete the contract. A list of qualified contractors should be formed --and
periodically updated-- by PMT by requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and relevant
information from local contractors while advertising local minor civil works contract opportunities.
Procurement of Goods (US$1.81 million). Visitor center equipment, aerial photographs, satellite images,
information technology, audio-visual equipment, field equipment, vehicles, agricultural demonstration kits,
office equipment and supplies will be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding.
The following methods will be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB (US$0.82 million). Goods contracts for procurement of
vehicles, radio-communication and field equipment, aerial photograph and satellite imaging, and tools and
equipment estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 or more will be procured through ICB procedures.
National Shopping or NS (US$0.47 million). Goods contracts for horse equipment and restoration
equipment estimated at $50,000 or less up to an aggregate of $470,000 may be procured through using NS
procedures.
International Shopping or IS (US$0.45 million). Contracts for the procurement of computers,
generators, tractors and watertanks, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured under IS
procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different
countries. Award through IAPSO would be acceptable as an altemative to IS, and IAPSO could be invited
as a supplier under the said IS procedures.
Procurement of Services (US$3.70 million). Contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January of 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January, 1999. The services financed under the grant are: design and works supervision, technical
assistance for legal and regulatory review, park management, natural resource use and public awareness,
- 54 -



regional and other studies, small grant program management, audit and training, etc. Selection of
Consultants and their contracts will be based on the standard documents issued by the Bank for the
procurement of such services with the minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank.
Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) can compete in the selection process under the provisions of Bank
Guidelines, provided that they have expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications are
satisfactory to both the Government and the Bank.
Selection of firms (US$2.45 million). Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred
method for selection offirms in contracts with estimated values above US$100,000. QCBS method will be
used to select the technical assistance needed for park management and monitoring services. Fixed-Budget
Selection (FBS) method will be used to procure a contract to develop a comprehensive management plan
for protected areas in central Caucasus and management of small grants. Least Cost Selection Method will
be applied to procurement of audit services and to produce promotional materials (video clips/films).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured following the selection based on
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) for development and implementation of management and monitoring plans
and guidelines, research programs, in-service training, field guides, biodiversity information database and
public awareness strategy, and design and supervision of construction, etc..
Selection of Individuals (US$1.25). Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, individual consultants will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing at least 3 CVs from potential
eligible candidates. All consultancy positions will be advertised.
Small grants (US$0.88 million financed by the Bank). Small grants to encourage sustainable resource
use and promote park-friendly business activities will be awarded to project beneficiaries on a competitive
basis at each of the project sites. The mechanisms for awarding these grants, including establishing grant
committees and developing eligibility criteria, procedures for application and a monitoring system, will be
determined within the first year of project implementation with the participation of local stakeholders and
will be submitted for the Bank's approval before implementation. Small grants will be available for
consultant services, goods, and works, for a maximum amount of US$25,000 for each grant. All
consultancies, goods and works financed by these grants will be procured under the basis of economy and
efficiency, using selection based on Consultants Qualifications (for consultancies), and/or shopping or
commercial procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
Goods and Works: The following contracts are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines: (i) all ICB contracts; (ii) all works and the first two contracts for
goods to be procured through NCB; (iii) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more; (iv) each contract for services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for
firms and $50,000 or more for individuals. Also the first two contracts procured under IS procedures, the
first two contracts procured under NS procedures and the first two contracts procured for Minor Civil
Works are subject to prior review.
Consultants: With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference for consultants. Contracts for services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for
firms and $50,000 or more for individuals are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in paragraphs 2
and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines. For contracts with individuals, all terms of reference will be prior
reviewed and for contracts costing US$55,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference
and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to contract
- 55 -



signature. All other contracts are subject to post review (one in 5 contracts). With respect to the selection
of individuals, all consultancy positions will be advertised.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Ctegor                            _                           _T l 
1. Works                               1.47             0.41           0.33          0.00         2.21
(1.20)           (0.35)         (0.30)        (0.00)       (1.85)
2. Goods                              0.82              0.00           0.92          0.07          1.81
(0.82)           (0.00)         (0.90)        (0.00)       (1.72)
3. Services                           0.00              0.00           3.70          0.00         3.70
(0.00)           (0.00)         (3.05)        (0.00)       (3.05)
4. Training, Workshops,               0.00              0.00           0.55          0.15         0.70
Conferences and Study Tours
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.55)        (0.00)       (0.55)
5. Small Grants                        0.00             0.00           0.88          0.00         0.88
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.88)        (0.00)       (0.88)
6. Incremental Operating              0.00              0.00           0.70          0.30          1.00
Costs                                 (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.65)         (0.00)       (0.65)
Total                              2.29              0.41           7.08          0.52         10.30
(2.02)           (0.35)         (6.33)        (0.00)   L  (8.70)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Seectiort  Method
C*,suftant Servces
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB      LCS      co     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               1.10    0.00    0.15    0.25      0.95    0.00    0.00      2.45
(0.90)   (0.00)  (0.13)  (0.22)   (0.75)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.00)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    1.25    0.00      1.25
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.05)  (0.00)   (1.05)
Total  1.10    0.00    0.15    0.25      0.95     1.25    0.00     3.70
___________________  (0.90)  (0.00)   (0.13)  (0.22)   (0.75)  (1.05)  (0.00)   (3.05)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc. Also includes workshop and study tour expenses.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
'''iliXbi^iTreshol                            Prii-o S'SiS 'snaenPulo RvlewR_          f
1. Works                      > 500,000                   ICB                      1.9,
<500,000                  NCB
< 50,000                  MCW
2. Goods                      > 100,000                   ICB                      L.OS
< 100,000                   Is
< 50,000                   NS
3. Services                   > 100,000            QCBS, FSB or LCS                1.9U
< 100,000                  CQ
IND
4. Miscellaneous                                                        L
5. Miscellaneous                                                        I
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$4.91 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Ex-Post review procurement will be part of the supervision missions and will be carried out by a PAS.
A procurement capacity assessment of the PIU was carried out and it was decided that the PI U should be
classified within the high risk zone. A plan to strengthen procurement capacity has been devised and it
included the hiring of an international procurement consultant to provide advice and hands-on training of
the PlU's procurement staff.
It is expected that, by the time of effectiveness, a year of procurement documentation will be ready. Thc
project launch workshop is estimated to be taking place before the end of year 2000. No advance
procurement is expected. The procurement monitoring system will be in place by the end of the year 20)0
and will consist in a tracking of completion of procurement as per procurement plan.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of creditgrant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will follow nornal Bank procedures and will be made against the categories of expenditures
indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed project area expected to be disbursed over a period of
six years. The anticipated completion date is June 30, 2006 and the closing date is December 31, 2006.
Table C: Allocation of CrediVGrant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Works                                       1.75                          80
Goods                                       2.26               100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consulting Services                         2.62                           80
Training, including Workshops,              0.57                          100
Conferences and Study Tours
Small grants                                0.88                          100
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.62                           90
Total Project Costs                         8.70
Total                                       8.70
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). A move to PMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the
Government and the Bank, and will be considered once the PIU is familiar with the project's monitoring
aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information.
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$50,000 each; (b) contracts for works
less than US$50,000 each; and (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent,
and contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (d) contracts for training;
(e) all small grant contracts; and (f) all incremental operating costs.
Special account:
Special Account (SA): During project preparation, the Government opened a Special Account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and a Transit account in a local commercial bank rated as Camel
I or Camel 2 by the National Bank of Georgia. These accounts were managed by the PPU. These
arrangements were assessed by the Bank to have been satisfactory and therefore they will remain in place
during project implementation, with the additional requirement that the total amount held in the transit
accounts is to be limited to the equivalent of US$ 5,000. The SA and transit accounts will be audited
annually and the results made available to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the SA amounts to
US$500,000 equivalent. Upon effectiveness, the Bank will provide for an advance of US$250,000
representing 50% of the authorized allocation. When the total funds withdrawn from the Grant Account
amount to US$2.0 million, the beneficiaries may withdraw the remaining balance amounting to
- 59 -



US$250,000 equivalent. Replenishment applications should be submitted every month. These applicalions
would be fully documented, except in the case where disbursements on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs) are permitted, and would be supported bv a
reconciliation statement and bank statements.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: Responsibility for financial management of the project will rest with
the PIU. A financial management specialist has been employed by the PIU since the beginning project
preparation (summer 1999). An additional accountant will be recruited as required during project
implementation. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of the PIU and confirmed that
the PIU satisfies the Bank's/IDA's minimum financial management requirements. However, the PIU does
not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMRs) as required by the
Bank/IDA for PMR-based Disbursements. During project negotiations, the borrower will confirm if it
wishes to consider a move to PMR-based disbursements and if so, agreement will be reached on an acti n
plan to develop further the project's financial management arrangements during the course of project
implementation.
Financial Management Capacity: The Bank conducted a Country Portfolio Financial Management
Review (CPFMR) of all projects currently under supervision in Georgia and concluded that project
financial management capacity is being progressively developed, inter alia, as a result of reforms in
accounting and auditing and the creation of an independent accounting profession in Georgia. Howevei,
systematic capacity building in project financial management is needed if the Georgia portfolio of
Bank-financed projects is to be implemented successfully. The main risks of the project's financial
management arrangements are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff in the PPU. The CPFMR concluded that given the high demand for skilled
financial professionals in Georgia, most of the newly-created PIUs reported difficulties in
recruitment of skilled accountants. The PPU, which would become the PIU when the project
becomes effective, currently employs a full-time experienced financial management specialist
whose responsibilities include maintaining accounts for the project preparation grant, project
accounting, internal controls and financial reporting. The Bank assessed these arrangements to be
satisfactory, however, an additional accountant will be recruited to the PIU if required during
project implementation.
(ii)   Financial management systems. In respect of existing Bank projects' financial
management systems, the CPFMR noted: generally, PIUs do not pay enough attention to basic
intemal control procedures; although most of the PIUs have operational manuals, during project
implementation, these manuals are usually not much in use; and most of the accounting software
packages used in Georgia are not supported by adequate access to technical support and
information technology (IT) hotlines. To mitigate these risks for this project: the Bank reviewed
the detailed design of the project's financial management systems, including its system of internal
controls, and confirmed that these were documented in an operational manual; during project
supervision, the Bank will, as recommended by the CPFMR, periodically review the operational
manual to ensure that it is being adhered to and is up-to-date; and a locally supported software was
selected, tested and implemented by the PPU.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account (SA). The banking sector in Georgia is relatively
- 60 -



weak. During project preparation, the Government opened a Special Account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank, and a Transit account in a local commercial bank rated as Camel 1 or
Camel 2 by the National Bank of Georgia. These arrangements were assessed by the Bank to have
been satisfactory and therefore they will remain in place during project implementation. The
CPFMR noted some financial difficulties in the management of existing Bank projects' transit
accounts and thus it has been agreed for this project that the total amount held in the transit
account will be limited to the equivalent of USS 5,000 and also, as recommended by the CPFMR,
Bank project supervision will include periodic reviews of the transit account and its management in
addition to reviews of the Special Account and other project accounts. The SA and transit
accounts will be audited annually and the results made available to the Bank.
(iv) Auditing arrangements. The findings of the CPFMR conclude that project auditing
arrangements for most projects in the Georgia portfolio are satisfactory. The CPFMR also
clarifies that, despite progress made in terms of size of membership and professional development,
the Georgia Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors is not yet a member of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and therefore the local audit firms certified by the
Audit Council of the Parliament of Georgia are not yet eligible to carry out audits of Bank-financed
projects. Membership of a professional accounting organization which is itself a member of IFAC
is a prerequisite for any audit firm to be considered acceptable to the Bank. However, the recent
accounting and audit reforms have created an enabling environment for creating associations
between intemational audit firms acceptable to the Bank and local audit firms. Thus the Bank will
provide its no-objection to the auditor selected by the PIU prior to its appointment.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Project management-oriented PMRs will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. The formats of the PMRs (Cash Model) are included within the draft
Operational Manual and will be confirmed during Negotiations. The PIU will produce a full set of PMRs
for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project beginning with the period ending 1 8 months
after project effectiveness date. However, the PMRs showing the project's sources and uses of funds by
disbursement category (PMR lA), uses of funds by project activity (PMR lB) and the project's Special
Account Statement (PMR IE) will be produced from project effectiveness and the four procurement
management reports (PMRs 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D) will be produced within six months of project
effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements: Extemal audits by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost Selection and the
selection of the project's auditors is condition of project effectiveness. Annual audited financial statements
of the project will be provided to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the
closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor,
subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the GEF
Grant as consulting services.
- 61 -



Assessment                        Risk
Assessment
Item Assessed        N   P   F   Satis-      Major       L    A    H        Actions         Proposed
U   0       factory   Weaknesses   0    V    I       Proposed         Completion
L    O  A                          W    E.   G                           Date
L R I                                         H
R
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws & Regulations          X                                         X
(ii) NCB Procedures                 X                                     X                                .
(iii) Internal codes and        X                                         X
manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                                                         Training to be   First six monti
arranged.        of
implementation.
Training
.____________   Workshop                      Project launch
(i) General handling                X                                X
(ii) Procurement planning           X                                X
(iii) Preparation of documents      X                                X
(iv) Management of process          X                                X
(v) Bid evaluation                  X                                X
(vi) Contract award                 X                              X                                       .
(vii) Preparation and signing       X                                X
of contracts
(viii) Contract management          X                                X
(c) Organization and
Functions
(i) Organization of unit and    _   X                                X
functions
(ii) Internal manuals and       X                                         X   PIP is being     Ready by
instructions                                                              prepared         effectiveness
(d) Support and Control
Systems
(i) Auditing                        X                                X
(ii) Legal assistance           X                                         X   Provide legal    Through the
assistance when   project
required
(iii) Technical and                 X                                X
administrative controls
(iv) Code of ethics                 X                                     X
(v) Anti-corruption             X                                         X   Provide          Project launch
initiatives                                                               awareness of WB
rules
(e) Record keeping          =   =_=_=_=_=   Further Training  Project Launch
- 62 -



(i)  Public notices              _   X                                 X    -
(ii) Bidding documents               X
(iii) Bid opening information        X                                 X
(iv) Bid evaluation reports      X                                          X
(v) Formal appeals and       X                                              X
outcomes                                                                    _
(vi) Signed contract             _   X                           -    X                     _
documents
(vii) Claims and dispute     X                                              X
resolution records      _____
(viii) Comprehensive                 X                                 X         Further Training  Project Launch
disbursement data
(f) Staf}ing                     -   X                                 X
(g) General Procurement
Environment
(i)  Promoting a culture of          X                                      X   Training          Continuos through
accountability                                                                               implementation
(ii) Reputation of                   X                                 X
procurement corps
(iii) Salary structure                      X                     X          _
(iv) Freedom from political           X                                      X
interference
(v) Existence of experienced     -   X                                 X
and capable staff                _
(vi) Clear written standards          X                                X
and delegation of
authority
(vii) Sound budget/financial         X                                 X
systems
(h) Private Sector
Assessment
(i)  General efficiency and      -   X                                 X   -
predictability
(ii) Transparency                    X                                      X
(iii) Quality of contract             X                                     X
mgmt.
(iv) General reputation      _        X                                X
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                     Overall Risk Assessment
Goods All ICB; First two IS and NS contracts                                                 High: X
Works All ICB; First two NCB and MW  contracts                                               Average:
Consulting; All QCBS contracts subject to prior review. Prior review                           Low:
threshold for consulting services for contracts over $100,000 for
firms. Prior review on the first 2 individual contracts, regardless of
contract amount, and subsequently, review of all TOR for
international consultant contract valued over $50,000 and national
consultant contracts over $20,000.
Post Review Ratio: One in 10 contracts
- 63 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One   Form prepared by: Gurdev Singh
every 12 months (includes special procurement supervision for   (Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff
post-review/audits). The supervision mission should include a   assigned to the project)
procurement specialist during the first two years of the work.
Date: June. 2000
Comments:
The Law on State Procurement (LSP), developed with the World Bank's
assistance is used. The PIU and other agencies in Georgia use the Bank's
SBDs also for the Georgia-financed contracts. The PIU, the agency for
implementing the Project is well staffed, well equipped, and has gained
some experience in Bank procurement procedures and practices under the
PPU activities. Additional training of the Procurement Specialist is
required before effectiveness.
The Procurement plan should be revised in compliance with the
thresholds recommended in the assessment and approved by the RPA.
-64-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Projet Schedue                 .PP.-d                                         . Atal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                            36
First Bank mission (identification)             06/01/97                      06/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                     06/30/2000                    06/28/2000
Negotiations                                    10/30/2000                    12/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2001
Prepared by:
Georgia Protected Areas Development Center; Georgian Opinion Research Business Intemational
(GORBI); Noah's Ark for the Reconstruction of Endangered Species (NACRES); U.S. National Park
Service
Preparation assistance:
GEF Project Preparation Grant of US$350,000
USAID Preparation Grant (for U.S. National Park Service) of US$150,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     SpeW ity
Phillip Brylski                   Task Teamn Leader; Biodiversity Specialist
John A. Hayward                   Sector Manager; Quality Assurance
Marjory-Anne Brormhead            Sr. Natural Resources Management Specialist, Quality Assurance
Charis Wuerffel                   Operations Analyst
Kerstin Canby                     Environmental Specialist
Darejan Kapanadze                 Projects Officer
Tijen Arin                        Natural Resource Economist
Anthony Whitten                   Biodiversity Specialist; Peer Reviewer
Andrey Kushlin                    Forestry Specialist
Jose Martinez                     Procurement Specialist
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement Specialist
Anna Staszewicz                   Financial Management Officer
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Karin Shepardson                  Program Teamn Leader; ECA GEF Coordinator
Elly Gudmundsdottir               Legal Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Janis Bernstein                   Social Scientist
Tjaart Schillhom                  Sr. Livestock Specialist
Andrew Bond                       Biodiversity Specialist
-65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The PIP includes the following annexes:
1. Terms of Reference for PIU staff
2. Detailed cost tables
3. Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
4. Procurement Capacity Assessment
5. Procurement Plan
6. Implementation Schedule
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Tourism Assessment and Work Plan for Inbound Nature/Culture Tourism to the Republic of Georgia,
March 2000*
2. Social Assessment, GORBI, May 2000*
3. Contingent Valuation Study Among Georgian City Dwellers: Attitudes, Preferences and Willingness to
Pay for Biodiversity Conservation; Arin, Manon Circ, Tecsult Inc., GORBI, February 2000*
4. Financial Management Assessment*
C. Other
1. Georgian National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, June 2000*
2. National Environmental Action Plan (including Forest Sector Strategy), 2000
3. UNDP project proposal - "Arid and Semi-Arid Eco-system Conservation in the Caucasus," Feb 2000*
4. "Institutional Profile and Development Needs," US National Park Service, November 1999*
5. Draft Management Plans for Protected Areas (Lagodecki, Tusheti, Vashlovani)
*Including electronic files
- 66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Apr-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P072394       2001 ENERGY TRANSIT INST BLDG                            0.00       9.63                 0.00       0.00       9.85      0.00       0.00
P040556       2000 ROADS                                               0.00     40.00                  0.00       0.00      38.34      0.00       0.00
P064091       2000 AGRIC RES. EXT. TRAINING (GEF)                      0.00      0.00                  2.48       0.00       2.32      0.14       0.00
P065715       2000 AGRRESEXT&TRG                                       0.00      7.60                  0.00       0.00       7.14      1.09       0.00
P056514        1999 TRANS MIN RESTRUCT                                 0.00       2.30                 0.00       0.00       1.75       1.67      0.00
P057813        1999 JUDICIAL REFORM                                    0.00      13.40                 0.00       0.00      11.35      -1.54      0.00
P060009        1999 INTGR COASTAL MGMT (GEF)                           0.00      0.00                  1.30       0.00       1.20      0.28       0.00
P064094       1999 ENERGY SECAC                                        0.00     25.00                  0.00       0.00      11.74      12.79      0.00
P008416       1999 ENTREHAB                                            0.00     15.00                  0.00       0.00      11.16      5.15       0.00
P050911        1999 INTG COASTAL MGT                                   0.00       4.40                 1.30       0.00       3.77      2.00       0.00
P052153       1999 SAC III                                             0.00     60.00                  0.00       0.00      38.27     61.10       0.00
P052154       1999 STRUCT REF SUPPORT                                  0.00      16.50                 0.00       0.00      11.84      5.66       0.00
P055573        1998 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                  0.00       4.49                 0.00       0.00       2.23       1.84      0.00
P050910        1998 MUN DEV                                            0.00     20.90                  0.00       0.00      14.07      14.00      0.00
P039929        1998 SIF                                                0.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00       6.50      5.66       0.00
P008415        1997 AGRIC DEVT                                         0.00      15.00                 0.00       0.00       1.96      -0.49      0.00
P008414        1996 HEALTH                                             0.00      14.00                 0.00       0.00       6.38      7.43       0.00
Total:       0.00      268.22                5.08        0.00      179.86    116.77       0.00
- 67 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commkted                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Parfic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999               TbilComBank                   3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Telasi                        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               ninotsminda                    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Bank of Georgia                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.00
Georgia G&MW Co.              0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00
1997/00            Georgia M-F Bank              0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00
1999               Ksani                         6.32    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                      2.38    0.86    0.00    0.00    2.38    0.86    0.00    0.00
1998
Total Portfolio:        44.70    4.02    6.00     0.00    14.08    4.02    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              GGMW                              0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
-68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: Protected Areas Development Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central      Low-      r
Goorgal       Asie  income        Development diamond
Population, mid-veor (m/Mions)                          5.5        475     2.417                  Lie expectancy
GNP par cap/ta AIth merhod. US$1                        620      2.150       410
GNP (Aleds mothod. US$ 40fions)                         3.4      1.022       988
Avera  annual growth. 1293.91
Pooutation 1%)                                           0.0       0.1        1.9     G
Labor force   )                                         0.0        0.6        23      GRP           .'                  Gross
per                   .         primary
Most recant estimat (ltst year ainrobi. 1193.3i)                                      capita                        enrollment
Poverty tx of poo.ution below  aio,"/ poveryv fine)      I I
Urban oooulation l% of bot5 poDulotfon)                  60         67        31
Life expectary at "  lye"s)                              73         69        s0
infant m /otity (per 1,00   fit Jhs)                     15         22        77
Child malnutriton t% of chldren under 5)                             8        43                 Access to safe water
Access to Improved water souce 1% of poaulation)          _                   64
liNteracy (% of owuhiros a" 1t5)                                     3        39
Gross ormarv enroltment I% of sch0oolae population)      as        100        96                   Geotgia
Mate                                                   89        101       102                   Low-income group
Femaie                                                 88         99 s
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1*97     1909 11 98          1t9S
Economic raelos
GOP llSS billions)                              ..        ..       3.5        2.7
Gross domnestic investmentGOP                          28.0       17.2       16.8 
Exports of goods end servicesGDP                       42.4       20.9       27.0                     Trade
Gross domestic sevinqslGOP                             25.3       -3.6       .2.2
Gross national savingslGOP                                          .9        8.8                       T
Current account balance/GDP                                       -11.3      480      D
Interest OavmentsGOP                                               1.1        t2      Domestic i                   Investmen
Total debIJOP                                                     48 5      61S       Savin9s           h
Total detbt servicetegorbt                                         7.2       11.9
Present value of debUGoP                                          36.9      49.2
Present vlue Of dbVexports                                       1997       194.8
Indebtedness
1S7?S-9  19          tS 109     1999  111-"43
averaeX ennuef rowth)/
GOP                                   1.9    -17.2      2.9        3.3       4.8                   GOOrgia
GNP ow rC5te                          1.1    -15.9       2.2       4.1       4.8                -Low-income group
Exports of ooods and services                  9 9      3.5       t1.6       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1911       1998      1909      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
I% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                            23.3       35.6       36.0
Industrtr                                              38.7       13.0       12.9    loo..
Manufacturing                                         27.1        7.6       7.6     so
Services                                               38.0       51.5       51.1      o    _        _9                 9
Private consumotion                                    62.6       90.2       89.8   -                          9.5   Zr 0wg
General qovernment consumption                          12.1      13.4       12.4               -      0i         GDP
imDorts of aoods and services                          45.1       41.6      46.0
1979-89  1939-SB       1908      1990      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annua/ growth)
Aqriculture                                              3.0      -8.0        3.0     r
Industry                                                5.1       .2.0        2.0    40
Manufacturing                                          3.3       t1.0       3.0
Services                                                19.0      16.5        1.7    20
Private consumption                              ..     6.8        9.1      -5.2      0            /~ h qI
General government consumption                         17.3        6.2      -11.4            9s 57    se
Gross domestic investment                               18.9      15.5     -144      -20.
Imports of qoods and services                          12.1       12.2     -12.7             -     Exports      :  Imports
Gross national Product                         1.9    .15.9        2.4       4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-group averaoe, If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 69 -



.Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1969       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prkes
(% change)                                                                         20.OO
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..        3.6     19.1    15.
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.8      5.4        4.5       9.4    10:o,.
Government finance                                                                  sooo0
(% of GDP, includes cuffent orants)                                                    o                                  O
Current revenue                                ..    29.1        16.2     15.9               94   95   96   97   96    9
Current budget balance                         ..    29.1        -4.4     -5.1                   GDP denator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/defidt                          ..    29.1       -6.4     -6.9
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USs mill.)
(US$ mlAlions)
Total exports (fob)                             .   6,716        478       477     1.200 .
Black metal                                   ..       ..        39       33
Tea                                           ..                 43       39      9s0
Manufactures                                 ..       ..        222      249
Total imports (cif)                            ..   7,150       1,164    1,013      8*
Food                                         ..   1.685         325      281
Fuel and energy                               ..    481         205      187                      99  96   9     96 9
Capital goods                                 ..   1710         231      187        o
Export price index (1995=100)                  *-       *-        90        93
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        95        95                  *Exports      a mports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        94        97
-ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                  ..       ..       720       739   o  _
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..      1,437    1,260
Resource balance                                ..      ..      -717      -521
Net income                                      .        ..      117       119
Net current transfers                          ..  ..  211   182    " 'I*                                  R          i
Current account balance                        ..       ..      -389      -220    -12
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..       298       209
Changes in net reserves                        ..       ..        91        11      18-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       ..       119       133
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSt)               ..       ..        1.4      2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Compoeition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..      ..    1,674       1,747
IBRD                                                             0         0                      F: 17
IDA                                          ..       ..       274       346                     _346
Total debt service                             ..       ..        66       113
IBRD                                          ..      ..         0         0
IDA                                          ..       ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..       ..        54        68        E: 1,007                     C: 322
Official creditors                           ..       ..        96        7:1
Private creditors                            ..       ..         0        17
Foreign direct investment                    ..         ..      50        62
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         0         0                               0: 56
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       ..        27       115      A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..        53        79      8 - IDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       ..         0         0      C - IMF                    G - Shart-term
Netfiows                                      ..       .        53        79
Interest payments                            ..       ..         2         3
Net transfers                                ..       ..        51        76
Development Economics                                                                                                9/15/00
-70 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Assessment and Stakeholder Participation Plan
1.    The Government of Georgia (GoG) is developing a long-term program aimed at developing a
tourism sector in the country. An important component of this program is the expansion, management and
protection of Georgia's nature reserves and protected areas which would be implemented under the Project
with assistance from the Global Environment Facility and the World Bank. It is envisaged that these
protected areas will serve as tourism destinations for both foreign and Georgian travelers, building on the
overall tourism potential of the country, and will raise the awareness of both the country's population and
international visitors about Georgia's unique natural history and the diversity of its ecosystems. In addition,
the establishment of new protected areas, together with the expansion of existing ones will serve to protect
the natural resources of Georgia -- soil, flora and fauna. Ultimately, the GoG views the Protected Areas
Development Project, the establishment of national parks and the development of an ecotourism industry as
cohesive components in an effort to simultaneously improve the country's economy and boost the country's
ability to protect, preserve and sustainably utilize its natural resources.
2.     Based on international experience that ecological and conservation-based initiatives cannot achieve
long-term success without obtaining participation and building social sustainability on a local-level, an
assessment was undertaken to better understand the social issues relating to the project objectives. This
Social Assessment sets out to (i) identify important actors having a stake in Georgia's biodiversity and
understand their specific interest; (ii) clarify relationships among different stakeholders and Project
activities; (iii) assess the consequences of stakeholder interests and relationship on biodiversity
conservation; (iv) identify stakeholders' ability to participate in the initiatives and methods to support or
enable this participation; and (v) recommend changes to the Project to re-direct activities its and the
attention of various stakeholders to promote environrmentally and socially sustainable practices. The
assessment focused on communities around the three proposed project sites in the Akhmeta, Lagodekhi and
Dedoplistskaro districts. The assessment was based on household surveys, in-depth interviews, focus
groups and official data from the State Department of Statistics.
Characteristics of the Region
3.    Socio-economic Background: The estimated population of the Kakheti region - the region where
the three project sites are located - is 464,000 people. Within this region, there are about 44,000 in the
Akhmeta district (where Tusheti is located), 34,900 in Dedoplistskharo (Vashlovani) and 53,600 in the
Logodekhi district. Population numbers have not shown any tendency to increase in recent years. The
majority of the region's population is of Georgian nationality, but there are small numbers of Russians,
Ossetians, Armenians and Azeris living there.
4.     The social assessment found that the top problems cited by local respondents were (i)
unemployment (54% of the surveyed household members over 16 do not have full time jobs, 29% of these
unemployed and 19% pensioners), (ii) lack of money, (iii) poor drinking water, and (iv) poor road and
telecommunication infrastructure. While the population is relatively well educated, the region is
characterized as "cash-starved and barter-based". Salaries tend to be lower than the national average (24.2
to 28.4 laris per month), but are supplemented with 72.4 laris worth of goods and services obtained through
bartering. Most households have a high reliance on home-grown foods, of which 46% is grown on privately
owned land).
- 71 -



5.    Agriculture and Natural Resources: The populations of Dedoplistskharo, Lagodekhi and Tusheti
also depend on natural resources from both private and state lands in the project region, including forests
for energy (fuelwood for cooking and heating), surface waters for irrigation, fannlands for crops, and
pastures for grazing. Crops are grown for household consumption as well as for profit. Cereal grains, wine
and sunflowers are traditional profit crops, and lately larger wine making companies have emerged.
Livestock herding has a long tradition in Kakheti, specifically sheep breeding and seasonal herd migrations
from Tusheti to Vashlovani - although this tradition is waning as prices for sheep have declined and cattle
are replacing sheep. Trends in land ownership is currently mixed between state and private. In Akmet4 and
Dedoplistskharo, more shepherds use state lands for grazing than in Lagodekhi.
Attitudes of Local Population Toward Project Activities and Natural Resources
6.    Perception of Natural Resource Degradation: The Social Assessment found that the majoritv of
households are aware of both the degradation of forest and wildlife resources and of forest felling and
hunting regulations - the populations of all three areas tend not to associate the poor conditions with their
own communities' actions (e.g. wood exports more than local unmanaged harvesting is responsible for
forest degradation; wealthy hunters from cities were responsible for declining wildlife numbers rather than
poaching).
7.    Perception Toward the Project: The social assessment found that the populations living in Tiisheti,
Vashlovani and Lagodekhi are respectful generally support of their region's protected areas and support the
project's objective of expanding these, improving their management, and promoting tourism. Local
populations believe they will benefit from an increase in the quality of natural resources due to improved
management and also from employment to service tourists. In fact, the local populations may be
over-enthusiastic and the project may have to curb expectations of dramatically improved resources and
high influxes of tourism within a the short-term. Women in particular were enthusiastic, due to (i) their
greater interest in the cultural and historical significance of their local landscapes and resources and (ii) the
expectation that they will be the primary beneficial of the tourism industry (culinary skills, folk hotels and
crafts). The local population of Azeris in the Lagodekhi village of Kabali, however, reported little interest
in participating in the Project's initiatives and reported no special concem for the state of the region's
natural resources.
Implications for Project Design
8.     The main project stakeholders, issues of particular concem to them, and mechanisms to best ensure
their participation in both the project's activities are summarized in Table 1. In addition, the following
findings and recommendations which were incorporated into the project design:
(i)    Access tofuelwood and pasture resources: Due to the difficulties that local communities
(especially in Lagodekhi and Vashlovani) face in obtaining energy, the protected area administrations
should not restrict access to fuelwood resources within the protected zones without assisting the local
populations in finding altemative sustainable sources. In addition, the protected area administrations will
work with local shepherds and local administrations to ensure that leases for pastureland on lands within
the zoned protected area will not be altered until and unless leases for equal or better pastureland elsewhere
have been allocated.
(ii)   Extension services for natural resources management: In order to improve the socio-economic
conditions of local communities, the local protected area administrations will, with the assistance of the
- 72 -



project, provide extension services for fuelwood access, sustainable pastureland management, veterinary
services, and small-scale tourism and eco-marketing opportunities. This will necessitate be facilitated with
project-financed technical assistance, including the establishment and operation of community-based user
groups.
In addition, the Dedoplistskharo population was interested in leaming about afforestation and improved soil
and water management practices, which is in keeping with both the importance of agriculture in the district,
as well as its pronounced water problems.
(iii)   Community / user groups: There is a desire among the local communities to form community or
user group associations to build their capacity to benefit from the project and ensure that their concems and
experience are adequately taken into account. The specific associations raised during the assessment
include:
*      Community Crafts Association. The Tusheti communities requested assistance in forming one or
more official associations, such as a carpet weavers association, or historical conservation association,
which would benefit from assistance under the project (marketing know-how, etc).
*      Shepherd's Association. The Georgian shepherds are supportive of the project's goal of improving
the use of pastures and other natural resources. They suggested that the project help them to organize a
Shepherd's Association which would serve as a beneficiary of the project's pasture management activities,
help to share their knowledge of pasture management and to reinstate traditional methods of pasture
protection (such as rotation and zoning systems), and as a "watchdog" to ensure that the interests of the
shepherds are adequately represented during project implementation.
(iv)    Women in development: While women do tend to express more optimism about the future, and
greater interest in the cultural and historical significance of their local landscapes and resources, many
women are also very interested in legal, marketing and regulatory issues regarding natural resources and
tourism. In this regard, emphasizing the local, cultural importance of resources will be the best way to
involve women, but care should be taken to also ensure that they have access to more technical information.
This is especially important in regards to entrepreneurship: women, particularly in Akhmeta, are interested
in starting their own natural resource-related businesses. In order to succeed, they will need information
about laws, regulations, credit options, tax codes, etc. In order to ensure their views on project activities
and local natural resource management are adequately taken into account, women will be included in the
local advisory groups for each National Park (which will also most likely serve as the allocation committee
to the small grants program).
(v)    Public Awareness campaign: The social assessment found that knowledge and understanding of
the project components is generally weak, and that many believe that the main point of the project is to
restore pastures, forests and other aspects of nature so that the population can use them again more
intensively. The project will need to work with the local communities to not only make them more aware of
the short and long-term impacts of sustainable management regimes and protected area zoning. The project
will also need provide a more realistic assessment of the opportunities and benefits of the project (e.g.
realistic numbers of tourists) while at the same time, through the extension services, provide information on
how to attract tourists (e.g. types of facilities) and market goods and services (crafts, folk hotels,
restaurants). In addition, an environmental education / public awareness campaign will make the local
population more aware of the underlying causes for natural resources degradation, the true costs of
degradation and positive actions they can take to alleviate the damage.
- 73 -



(vi)   Long-term participation of the Azeri shepherds: The heavy use of the pastures around Lagodekhi
by this group necessitates the involvement of the Azeris -- a close-knit Muslim community - from the
Kabali area, even though they apparently have little interest in the initiatives. While primarily concerned
with economic and employment issues, they are not enthusiastic about involving women in any possible
cultural crafts and culinary services. Georgian foresters believe that Azeris do not possess a sense of
ownership in the land and therefore have no stake in preserving pastures for future generations' use. The
project will explore the possible recruitment of an Azeri staff person at the Lagodekhi project site to help to
integrate Azeri participation in natural resources management in the district and will make every attempt to
ensure there are no language barriers.
(vii)   Conflict Resolution and Trust Development. The social assessment highlighted that conflicts over
natural resources use and harvesting could arise between stakeholders and the protected area
administrations, particularly during times of hardship. While open communication and cooperation wi fh
local populations will improve the situation, the Government of Georgia and protected area administrations
will have to ensure that it follows through on promises and policies, and that it is capable of incorporating
positive changes in local communities' daily lives throughout the project and after.
A five-member local advisory committee will be established at each of the protected area sites, composed of
a diverse stakeholder set, including representatives of local resource user groups, district and village
government, local communities, ethnic groups and NGOs. These committees will advise the DPA on
project and park-related activities, and ensure that local stakeholder opinions and concerns are voiced.
- 74 -



Table 1. Summary Table of Stakeholders, Issues and Mechanisms for Participadon
Stakeholder        Issue                                   Mechanism to ensure participation
Central            These stakeholders show strong interest in  *    Implementation: The Ministry of
Government:       the success of the Project. Government   Environment (MoE) will serve as the
Ministry of        believes that the country's ecotourism  Executing Agency, the Department of
Environment,       potential holds real opportunities for the  Protected Areas (DPA) will serve as the
Department of      country and that by tying ecological    Implementing Agency, and the
Protected Areas,   protection to commercial and economic   Department of Forestry (DoF) will
Department of      development, the GoG will be able to    implement the activities within the
Forestry           address a number of the country's most  Alazani and Alaverdi floodplain forests
pressing problems in a sustainable,     *     Governance: The MoE, DPA and
long-term way.                          DoF, among will all serve on the
Steering Committee of the project;
The GoG, however, has yet to establish a
clear strategy for the sustainable
development of its land and resources. There
is the potential for conflict between various
departments which may hold varying
opinions on the appropriate management
regimes for natural resources (e.g. extent of
protection, commercial use and export). In
other instances, internal departmental policy
will be conflicting. The establishment of a
definite policy on the protection and
development of resources, combined with a
clear delineation of departmental roles, on
the part of the GoG will undoubtedly ease
and in some cases eliminate any such
conflicts.
Local              The local administrations have been active  *    Governance: The local
governments:       during the development of the project, and  administrations will serve on the local
municipal actors   have been a driving force in ensuring that  advisory committees responsible for
the legislative acts for establishing the new  decision-making and small grant
protected areas receive the necessary   allocations.
parliamentary hearings to become law.
Because local governments and municipal
departments are usually the ones charged
with carrying out the GoG's policies, they.
tend to take the brunt of the blame among
local communities when such policies fail.
- 75 -



International and    International and domestic NGOs have the  *    Governance:NGOs will *erve on
regional /          ability to offer expertise needed in eastern  the national Steering Committee for the
domestic NGOs       Georgia, and it is expected that their    project.
involvement will increase during project  *     Implementation: It is expected
implementation. Because mass media is in    that NGOs can serve as partners, or will
relatively poor supply in east Georgia,   be contracted to implement specific
alternative information dissemination     components or activities under the
techniques will be needed, and NGOs can   project (following Bank procurement
provide much help in preparing and        guidelines)
distributing information. In addition, by  *    Beneficiaries: National NGOs
their very nature, NGOs usually have      can be recipients of joint training
experience in forming functioning groups  activities with the DPA as well as of the
and associations. In this regard, their help  small grants program.
could be invaluable in helping local
population members form associations such
as shepherd's associations.
Local inhabitants:   Many families in the Project region rely on  *  Governance: Representatives cf
commercial          natural resources from both private and the    local communities will serve on the
farmers, women,     state lands -- crops, fuelwood, water. They    local advisory committees. Continuous
young people and    feel a pride in their natural surroundings,  public consultations will ensure they
the poorest         which fosters their sense of ownership of the   provide input to all aspects of protected
households, sheep    local nature that has in turn played a large  area management.
and cattle          role in creating and fostering their      *     Implementation: Local
shepherds           communities and cultural identities.      communities will be actively involved in
key aspects of implementation, such as
However, the local communities are often  the restoration of lands, community
not aware of the impacts of their activities on   forest management either through
natural resources, or are forced into an  voluntary participation in user groups,
unsustainable situation due to economic   or labor contracts
hardship.                                 *     Beneficiaries: Local
communities will benefit from land
rehabilitation; technical assistance
(extension services) for resource,
tourism and marketing development;
and can be receive of small grants.
- 76 -



Women               While women do tend to express more       *     Governance: Women will be
optimism about the future, and greater    represented on the local advisory
interest in the cultural and historical   committees
significance of their local landscapes and  *   Beneficiaries: Women are
resources, many women are also very       expected to be the beneficiaries in
interested in legal, marketing and regulatory   particular of the small grants program
issues regarding natural resources and    and training in marketing for tourism
tourism. Women in the region tend to be   and local crafts development.
especially concerned about the conditions of
nature in their districts.
Women would benefit not only from the
increase in service-related employment, but
also in the ability to preserve their traditional
arts, such as carpet weaving and culinary
knowledge. The Tushis are especially proud
of their local wool (high quality and dyed
from local plants) and their rugs and
weavings incorporate traditional local
designs. Women in Akhmeta and Lagodekhi
frequently sited wanting to start commercial
nurseries to grow and preserve herbs and
plants of local significance.
Shepherds and       Georgian shepherds from all 3 districts tend    *  Governance: Shepherds will be
cattle shepherds    to be very concerned about the conditions of   represented on local advisory
pastures and natural resources. All almost  committees.
unanimously support the protection of     *     Implementation: The project will
natural resources, even to the extent of  ensure that shepherds participate in
suggesting access to pastures be restricted.  early planning and decision-making
stages of initiatives to protect pastures -
It is expected that Georgian shepherds will    helping to ensure participation among
be relatively easy to involve in the initiative    this stakeholder group in later stages of
because its members have a pronounced     project implementation
interest in the issues, want to receive more  *  Beneficiaries: Shepherds will
information and are interested in         benefit from pastureland restoration,
participating on a number of levels. Their    technical assistance for improved
experience will serve as invaluable input  management structures, veterinary
about pasture and natural resource        extension work, and the small grants
conditions and borders for zones of natural    program.
resources management.
- 77 -



Azeri shepherds     The Social Assessment highlighted the    *     Governance and
difference in interests and concerns     Implementation: Representatives of the
between the Georgian and Azeri           Azeri community will be invited to serve
shepherds in Lagodekhi. The primnary     on the local advisory committee. Due to
area for conflict with Azeri shepherds will  their current low interest, special effort
be with those charged with the protection    may need to be made to raise their
be withnthosemcaredt wih thet  protreto  awareness of the benefits of their
and management of Kaklheti's pastures    participation
and natural resources. Currently, the    *     Beneficiaries: Like the other
Azeri shepherds do not support increased   citizens of the local communities, the
protection of pastures.                  Azeris will have every opportunity to
benefit from pastureland restoration,
technical assistance, veterinary services
and the small grants program. The
project will try to stimulate their interest
by holding meetings in their community
in their language, translate document.;
and make every effort to engage them.
- 78 -



IBRD 31415
40                                        41'                                      42                                        43                                       44                                         A5                                        46
GEORGIA
PROTECTED AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ta
VLz  AREAS RECEIVING PROJECT SUPPORT                 BUILTUP URB A   L AREA
)   !  -t i  @99  RUSSIAN    FEDERATION                                                                                                              oSEaECTED CITIES
UI    AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CENTERS
ELEVATIONS IN METERS                         NATIONALCAPTAL
GLACIER AREAS
MAIN ROARS
Pk.                                                                                                                                      200                                         SECONDARY ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCOL4V  OR
0   ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
43-
FSeaTIEERAIO
TURKEY ~ ~ ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ URE /-\.tr;   i                                                                                                                                                                                       PJEina P >t  S .O 4    O 7KLOER   (A MNA',   ZRAIJA
~ ~:r YfAN RA  REPV IAQ  .%        BISLAftl REP OFIAg  24'\                                                                                                                   t'tu+nMY2O
-42-                                                                                            V-                                                                                                                                                                                            42~~~~~~~~~~4 aI  4,V,~
UKRAINE                             KAZAKHST5AUN5                                                                      RU      VTLO4EER                                                                                                      i            A     ER       AIA
FULN U E RE>IRAT       SAICRPOPIA                                        2                                                                                                                                     'JAS2R



