                                                                                                            92413
Protecting Georgia's Natural Treasures                                                                      December 16, 2005
                                                           LAGODEKHI, Georgia – Lagodekhi, the vast forest and wildlife shelter here, in
                                                           the southern foothills of the Caucasus, was once a hunting reserve for 19th-
                                                           century Prince Demidov who would invite guests from France to shoot deer, lynx
                                                           and bears.

                                                           Established in the 20th century as a nature reserve, Lagodekhi became a
                                                           sanctuary which only researchers and educators armed with permits could visit. 

                                                           Today, Georgians are working on the forest’s third incarnation. Since 2003, the
                                                           park has been divided into a 2,000-hectare managed area, open to the general
                                                           public; and a 22,000-hectare pristine nature reserve, off-limits to all but fauna.

                                                      Lagodekhi is one of five protected areas in Georgia that have received funding
from the Global Environment Facility, a pool of money managed by the World Bank and other international agencies that helps poorer
countries reach higher environmental standards.

The Protected Areas Development Project was designed to preserve Georgia’s biodiversity by spreading environmental awareness,
strengthening Georgia’s Department of Protected Areas and developing ecologically-friendly tourism. Georgia, a crossroad of European,
Central Asian and Middle Eastern climates and terrains, is an important migration path for birds and mammals.

The challenge is to do this at a time when people are busy recovering from post-Soviet political and economic upheavals.

“It’s difficult to preach conservation to people who are in a survival situation,” says Darejan Kapanadze, the project’s operations officer at
the World Bank’s Tbilisi office. “But we can increase environmental awareness so that, when people move out of this despair, they have
the right values in their heads.”

At Lagodekhi, the new approach is a welcome alternative to unenforceable, outdated regulations, and a situation in which poachers and
woodchoppers are allowed to plunder a national treasure.

The Lagodekhi woods begin right at the edge of town, where a population of
8,000 lives without proper access to electricity and gas. Even at the park lodge,
rangers sit in damp darkness for large parts of the day. As a result perhaps, they
are sympathetic to their neighbors’ heating needs and allow people to collect
firewood from downed trees in the managed area.

“They come with their own axes but we supervise them,” says Vazha
Pavliashvili, a gregarious mustachioed man who has been at the helm of the
Lagodekhi reserve for the last 26 years. “The new buffer zone is a very good
idea – otherwise people would violate the law and we would be unable to stop
them.”

Poachers are a different story. Although they face steep fines and up to four
years in prison, hunters equipped with optic guns are hard to stop. Civil unrest in Georgia in the early 1990s produced a proliferation of
unregistered weapons. Rangers, who have Soviet guns from the 1940s, try to fan out into the park to dissuade hunters with their
presence, but can easily be outgunned. “The best protection would be to increase jobs in the region so people don’t roam the parks for
food,” says Pavliashvili.

The park director remembers seeing a man tromping through the woods, with a huge sack of freshly-picked mushrooms and plants on his
back. “I just took away his gun and let him go. I know he would have killed an ibex if he could. I felt sorry for him.”

But Pavilashvili, whose own father was once a guard here, feels entrusted with a special mission to preserve natural heritage. Roughly
30% of Georgia’s plant species grow at Lagodekhi. The park is home to about 500 endangered turs or ibexes, down from about 2,000,
two decades ago. With the new managed area acting as a buffer zone, the director hopes the pressures of hunting, scavenging and illegal
logging will begin to let up.

He’s also enthusiastic about the material support finally reaching park rangers thanks to the Protected Areas Development Project. “For
thirteen years, we received nothing,” he says. “No cars, no uniforms, no real salaries. Rangers were paid $10 to $20 a month. Now we
can finally do our job.” Salaries for rangers have been increased to roughly $60 a month. The number of rangers will go from 14 to 18.
Rangers have received training and new equipment such as computers, sleeping bags and binoculars. And hiking and riding trails will be
created next spring in the park’s managed area.

Tourists so far have only trickled in, deterred perhaps by news of instability in the nearby Pankissi gorge, once a base for Chechen rebels.
Economic hardship has also kept many Georgian families from spending money on weekend excursions until now.
Nonetheless, the park’s neighbors hope tourism will become a source of income. The park is only
150 kilometers from Tbilisi and connected to the capital by a decent road. Thanks to grants provided
under the project, two homes were recently converted into guesthouses, and a horse stable offering
horseback riding and camping is in the works.

Manana Lobzhanidze received $15,000 to convert part of her spacious but spartan house,
surrounded by flowers and grapevine, into a 16-bed guesthouse. Will visitors stay at her home?
“Next summer will be the test,” she says with a smile. The project’s implementing unit director Rati
Japaridze plans to advertise the parks as tourist destinations on a new website.

This nascent tourism industry could provide new allies in the fight to preserve Lagodekhi’s natural
assets. “We don’t have major landmarks here,” says Pavliashvili. “We know the reserve is our only
treasure.”

                                                ***

  Read more about the Protected Areas Development Project
