RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-676a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ZAMBIA
r"     --. 
I-Uc   1
September 10, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:             Kwacha
US.$L  -                   K 0.71b
Kl                    -    US$1.O40
K1,000,000            =    US$1,h00,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1             -    December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British
METRIC - BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 mile                =    1.6 kilometers
1 foot               =     30.5 centimeters
1 acre               =     0.41 hectares
1 imperial gallon     =    1.20 US gallons
=      &.54 liters
1 ton                 =    1.12 US sh ton
=     1.02 metric ton



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUItThARY                                                           i
1. INTRODUCTION                                                         1
2. BACKGROUND                                                           2
A. Economic Setting                                                 2
B. Transport System                                                 3
C. The Zambia-Tanzania Transport Problem                            4
3. THE HIGWRAY SYSTEM                                                   9
A.  The Highway System                                              9
B.  Highway Traffic and Vehicle Fleet                               9
C.  Highway Transport Industry                                     10
D.  Highway Administration                                         10
E.  Design Standards, Engineering and Construction                 11
F.  Highway Maintenance                                            11
G.  Highway Expenditures and Investment Planning                   12
THE PROJECT
A. Description                                                     13
B.  Design Standards                                               13
C.  Cost Estimates                                                 14
D.  Execution                                                      15
E.  Financing                                                      15
5.  ECONO0MIC E7ALUATION                                               17
A.  Introduction                                                   17
B.  Economic Justification                                         17
C.  Problems of Analysis                                           17
D.  Probable Traffic Levels                                        19
E. Probable Unit Savings in Vehicle Operating and
Road Maintenance Costs                                      21
F.  Probability Analysis of Economic Rate of Return                22
G. Engineering of the Luangwa River-Nyimba Section
of the Great East Road                                      23
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                     25
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Jaycox and L. Pouliquen, economists,
and F. Soges, engineer.






Table of Contents
-2-
ANMEX
1. Probability Analysis of the Economic Rate of Return
2. Hypotheses of Probability Analysis of Economic Rate of Return,
Mpika-Tunduma Road
3. Diagram: Probability Profile of Economic Rate of Return
TABLES
1. Highway Budgets
2. Design Standards
3. Cost Estimates
4. Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs (1967-1968)
5. Estimated Vehicle Unit Operating Costs on Project Road Sections
MAPS
Map 1 - East & Central African Transport links - IBRD-1253R8
Map 2 - Zambia Highway System - IBRD-1710R3
ABBREVIATIONS - ACRONYMIS
UDI    -  Unilateral declaration of independence by Southern Rhodesia
BCK    -  Bas-Conga-Katanga railways
CARS   -  Central African Road Services Ltd.
ZTRS   -  Zambia-Tanzania Road Services Ltd.
USAID  -  US Agency for International Development
Lonrho -  London and Rhodesia Mining Company
RD     - Roads Department






ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SBCOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The proposed project consists of the reconstruction of the Mpika-
Tunduma section (235 miles) of the Great North Road and of the detailed
engineering of the Luangwa river-Nyimba section (63 miles) of the Great
East Road. The Great North Road forms a part of the Tanzam Highway linking
the Zambian Copperbelt with the sea at Dar es Salaam in Tanzania.   Construction
is already being executed under two contracts awarded in 1967 through inter-
national competitive bidding, and was 35 percent complete as of July 1968.
ii.       This would be the second loan for highways in Zambia.   In 1966, a
loan of US$17.5 million equivalent was made to help finance the reconstruc-
tion and/or engineering of other sections of the Great North Road and of
parts of the Great East Road. Execution is proceeding satisfactorily, and
was 60 percent complete as of June 1968.
iii.      Retroactive financing of part of the Second Highway Project is
recommended. The possibility of Bank financing of the road sections was
considered during negotiations of the first highway loan in 1966. At that
time the political and transport situation in Central Africa was so uncer-
tain that a Bank appraisal was impractical. However, execution of the project
could not be delayed because of the transport crisis facing Zambia, and
the Government proceeded with it late in 1966, on the understanding that
the project would subsequently be appraised on its merits and that if proved
to be justified retroactive financing would be recommended to the Executive
Directors. In January 1968, the Zanbian Government submitted an application
and the project was appraised in 14arch/April.
iv.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.5 million
equivalent. The UK has provided a grant of US$2.2 million equivalent toward
the project, which covered total expenditures up to about March 1, 1968.
The proposed Bank loan of US$10.7 million would cover the estimated foreign
exchange costs of the part of the project not defrayed from the U.K. grant.
Retroactive financing would amount to about US$3 million by October 1968.
v.        Execution of the project is the responsibility of the Roads Depart-
ment. Construction is being supervised by consultants satisfactory to the
Bank. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1969.
vi.       The project forms part of a larger international program to improve
the entire Tanzam Highway to suitable standards, with a view to developing
transport capacity to the sea for landlocked Zambia. Because of the uncer-
tainty with respect to various developments which could affect traffic de-
velopment on the project road, a probability analysis of the economic rate
of return was conducted. The results of this analysis indicate that the
project can be expected to earn a rate of return of 15 percent, which is
satisfactory.



- ii -
vii.      During negotiations, satisfactory assurances were obtained from
the Government that (1) the progran for the technical education and training
of Zambian nationals will be increased with a view to ensuring an appropriate
supply of Zambians qualifying for professional and other positions within
the Roads Department, and (,2) the pavement on th.e project rcard will he
strengtlened by overlay,s when an(' it' necessarz..
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loam of UJ$,10.7 million to)
the Government of Zambia. iAn appropriate loan term would be 20 years including
a two-year period of grace.



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Zambia asked the Bank in January
1968 to help finance the reconstruction of the Serenje-Tunduma section(382
miles) of the Great North Road and of the Rufunsa-Nyimba section (113 miles)
of the Great East Road. The possibility of Bank financing of the road sec-
tions was considered during negotiations for the first highway loan (469-ZA)
in 1966. At that time, the political and transport situation in Central
Africa was so uncertain that a Bank appraisal of the above road sections
was impractical. However, due to the transport crisis facing Zambia, the
Government undertook execution of the project on the understanding that the
project would subsequently be appraised on its merits and that if proved
justified, retroactive financing would be recommended to the Executive
Directors.
1.02      A Bank appraisal mission visited Zambia in March/April 1968 and
found the reconstruction of the 235 mile Mpika-Tundumna (Tanzanian border)
section of the Great North Road ready for appraisal and suitable for Bank
financing. The reconstruction works on the Serenje-Mpika section (147
riles) of the Great North Road, and the Rufunsa-Luangwa section (48 miles)
of the Great East Road were let to contracts on a negotiated basis and are
therefore not eligible for Bank financing. The detailed engineering of
the Luangwa-Nyimba section (63 miles) of the Great East Road is not ready,
and a preliminary economic analysis indicates that its reconstruction would
yield only a marginal return. However, as the analysis is sensitive to
costs, proceeding with the detailed engineering is considered Justified
at this time in order to establish accurate cost estimates. Therefore,
the detailed engineering of the Luangwa-Nyinba section is included in the
proposed project.
1.03      This appraisal was carried out in conjunction with the appraisal
for possible Bank/IDA lending of improvements to further sections of the
Great North Road in Tanzania which links Zambia to the Tanzanian port of
Dar es Salaam on the Indian Ocean. The Tanzanian part of the project will
be submitted for consideration by the Executive Directors shortly. The
appraisal is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. E.V.K. Jaycox and L. Pouliquen, economists, and F. Soges, engineer,
which visited Zambia in March 1968.   Mrs. J. Comer, programmer-analyst,
contributed substantially to the appraisal.
1.04      This would be the second loan by the Bank for road projects in
Zambia. The first loan (469-ZA) was made in 1966 and covered the recon-
struction of one section of the Great North Road and of two sections of
the Great East Road. Performance under the first loan is satisfactory,
and the project is expected to be completed on schedule and within the original
cost estimates. Previously, the Bank made two loans for railways (NR-74
and RN-197) in Northern and Southern Rhodesia and two loans for power (RN-
145 and RNS-392) to the Central African Power Corporation jointly owned
by Zambia and Rhodesia. Zambia has assumed responsibility for its share
of these loans.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Zambia is a landlocked country in Central Africa.   With an area
of about 291,000 square miles, it is comparable in size to France and West
Germ.any combined. Zambia's; population is about 3.8 million, and is growing
at an estimated rate of 2.8 percent per annun. Ninety-eight percent of the
population is of African origin. The Gross Domestic Product in 1966 is
estimated at K 761 million (US$1,070 million equivalent); annual per capita
income is about US$260 equivalent.
2.02      The economy is highly dependent upon foreign trade.   Over 50 per-
cent of total production by value is exported, and about 45 percent of total
domestic consumption and investment is imported.  To maintain economic
activity at current levels, about 3.5 million tons of cargo worth over .IS,1l
billion must move in and out of the country each year.
2.03      Zambia's market economy has two main sectors.   The primary sector
is the copper mining and refining industry which dominates the economy. It
is the third largest in the world, ranking in value of output after the
copper industries of the U.S. and U.S.S.R. Copper and other mining produc-
tion accounts for nearly 50 percent of GDP and over 90 percent of export
proceeds. The second main productive sector consists of European tobacco
and maize farning. By far the greatest majority of the African population
is engaged in subsistence agriculture.
2.04      Economic activity in Zambia is concentrated in the ';Copperbelt
and along the 'Line of Rail';. The Copperbelt is a relatively small area
located in the north central part of the country adjoining the border with
Katanga Province of the Congo. The Line of Rail area is a narrow, north-
south strip along the railway where the larger towns of the country are
located and the bulk of the economic and administrative activity takes place.
Ineither the copper industry nor European farming has had much direct effect
upon the development of the rest of Zambia. Less than one-third of the
people live within the zone of influence of the Line of Rail/Copperbelt
complex.
2.05      During the country's federation with Rhodesia and Nyasaland (1953-
1963), the economy grew in real terms at the annual rate of about 3.6 per-
cent. In the period 1960-1963, GDP virtually stagnated, due mainly to a
fall in copper prices and to political uncertainties arising out of the move-
ment toward dissolution of the Federation (December 31, 1963) and achieve-
ment of national independence (October 24, 1964). However, in the period
1964-1966 the economy registered an average annual increase in real GDP of
7 percent, despite a 15 percent fall in copper output in 1966 due to trans-
port and fuel supply problems arising from the political situation in Central
Africa.



-3-
B.   Transport System
Internal Transport
2.06      The 665 mile Zambia Railway system contributes little to the
internal exchange among the various regions. Extension of the rail system
to meet inter-regional transport requirements is not practical. However,
the 20,800 mile road network, which branches from the primary road along the
rail line, is basically appropriate for meeting these needs. River and canal
transport and air transport, while irmortant in certain areas or for limited
purposes, are not suited to the major task of integrating the economy. As
far as transport is concerned, the process of economic development and
diversification will be helped most by investment in improving the existing
primary and secondary road network and in improving and constructing agri-
cultural feeder roads.
Access to the Sea
2.07      As a landloc&ed country Olepending heavily on exports and imports,
Z7anbia must concern itself with ensuiring a. reliable access to the sea as
well as witlh building an adeouate irternal network to facilitate economic
development.  Zamnbia's primaryr link to the sea has historically been via
the Rhodesin Railways fror. the Copperbelt through Southern Rhodesia to the
Mozambiaue norts of Beira and Lourerco M4arques, both about 1,500 rail miles
from the Copperbelt (see Miar 1). In the past virtually all of Zambia's
imports and exports moved over this line.  U(ntil late 1967, the Rhodesia
Failways was jointly owned by the Governmcnts of Zambia and Southern Rhodesia
and was operated by a statutory corporation as a common service to the two
countries.  As a result of the unilateral declaration of independence (UDI)
by Southern Rhodesia. in 1965, the Zanbian Railways and Rhodesia Railway
have been formed into separate operating entities. Discussions as to the
division of assets and liabilities have not yet been completed.  Existing
rail rou:tes which could provide alternatives to the Rhodesia Railway are
(see Sap 1): (1) the Bas-Congo-Katanga. (BCK)-Benguela Railways through
Katanga Province and Angola to the Atlantic port of Lobito; (2) the Katanga-
,latadi rail/water route via Port Francqui; and (3) the Katanga-Lake Tanganyika-
East African Railways line to Dar-es-Salasm. In addition to the alternative
rail links, Zambia is connected through its primary road network to the
neighboring highway/rail systems in Tanzania and Malawi, which provide outlets
to the sea.
2.08      Historically, the movement of Zambia's copper production (currently
about 700,000 tons per year) has been governed by several international agree-
ments 1/, which have had the effect of ensuring that at least 80 percent of
Zambia's copper output would move via the Rhodesia Railways and port of
l/   The Tripartite Agreement between Rhodesia Railways, Chemin de Fer du
Bas Congo au Katanga, and Caminho de Ferro de Benguela (1956); the
Beira Convention between the U.K. (on behalf of Zambia, Malawi, Rhodesia
and the U.K.) and Portugal (1950); the Agreement between Southern
Rhodesia and Northern Rhodesia relating to Rhodesia Railways (1963).



Beira. A 1960 agreement between the Federal Government and the Copperbelt
mines limited export via Lobito to 36,000 tons per annum. As a result of
these arrangements, the alternative rail routes have not developed sufficient
capacity to handle more than a small amount of Zambian traffic.
2.9       The orientation of Zambia's trade, economy, and transport faci-
lities toward Southern Rhodesia is an outcome of African history and Zambia's
federal past.  Since independence it has become the established long-range
policy of the Government of Zambia to reduce the country's dependence upon
Southern Rhodesia for access to the sea and for the supply of a wide variety
of manufactured and raw material reouisites. Zambia wishes to develop new
and closer trade relations with neighboring nations to the north and east,
and to change the inherited and somewhat arbitrary pattern of international
traffic.
C.   The Zambia-Tanzania Transport Problerm
The Transport Crisis
2.10      UDT a,gravated the already troubled atmosphere of Central Africa,
and transformed Zambia's lonF-ranrue aim to diversify its trading and trans-
port pattern into an i:mediate problem.  Following UDT, a series of UN
Security Council resolutions 1/, pl<sced progressively strict economic sanc-
tions on Rhodesia beginning with an international embargo on the movement
of petroleum and other products t.o or through Rhodesia, and imposing most
recently (May 1968) a complete embargo on trade and services. These sanctions
necessitated the emergency transport of liquid fuels to Zambia and the backhaul
of some conper exports over the most irnmediately available alternative link
to the sea, the 1,200 'dile road from the rail line at Kapiri Mposhi to Dar
es Selaar, which is now carmonly k:nown as the Tanzarx highway.  During 1966
nearly 1,000 privately-owned. truc's in Zambia and Tanzania were put into
service for this purrose iunder contract to the Central African Road Services
(CARS), acting as agent of the Zamlbian Governnment.  In mid-1966, the Zambia-
Tanzania Poad services Ltd. (ZTRS) was formed and began operating 30 ton
capacity truck-trailer umits to carry petroleum and general cargo imports
and conner exports: by,r mid-1968 the 7CRS fleet had reached 442 units.  In
early 1967 a number of large foreirn firms, operating a total of about 300
large tanker-trailers, entered the oil lift service over the Tanzam highway.
Oil lift operations over the Great ]ast Road via the Malawi and Mozambique
rail systems from Beira were also instituted on a smaller scale.
2.11      In addition to the emergency transport over the Tanzam highway, a
rmilitary-type airlift of oil products and copper was instituted early in
1966 by the US, U.K. and Canadian Air Forces via the Congo and East Africa.
This has since been discontinued and replaced by the operations of Zambia
1/   Resolutions 216 (1965) of November 1965; 217 (1965) of 20 November
1965; 221 (1966) of 9 April 1966; 232 (1966) of 16 December 1966; and
253 (1968) of 29 May :1968.



- 5 -
Air Cargoes Ltd., a newly formed company operating four large cargo planes,
which carry copper to Dar es Salaam and return with fuels.
2.12      Attempts have also been made to increase ZaTnbian traffic on the
alternative rail routes to Lobito, to Matadi, and via Lake Tanganyika and
the East African Railways to Dar es Salaam. The only significant results
so far have been achieved on the BCK/Benguela line via the Congo and Angola
to Lobito, for which additional rolling stock and personnel have been pro-
vided by Zambia to handle Zambian traffic on the BCK portion through the
Congo (see para. 2.15).
2.13      The Tanzam highway has been the principal route for the traffic
diverted from Rhodesia, due primarily to the greater flexibility inherent
to trucking operations as compared to the rail routes. The most important
constraint on traffic movement has been the condition of the road, although
the combined problems encountered in the areas of traffic control, trucking
organization, goods storage, port capacities, commercial arrangements and
border formalities have also had a considerable imnact on the volume of
traffic. The emergency operation of about 120 heavv trucks per day over the
Tanzam highway, in addition to normal traffic, required extraordinary main-
tenance expenditures of about USQ3.O million eauivalent in 7ambia and about
US$2.0 mnillion equivalent in Tanzanxia during 1966/67, but even so the road
has often been closed at one or more noints for several days at a time due
to broken structures or mired or wrecked vehicles. Over 100 drivers have
been killed on this road since early 1(66. The damage to vehicles in the
course of a journey renuires extensive vehicle maintenance (averaging 5
days for ZTIS after each one-way trip).   Under these conditions the 7TRS
averares only 1.1 round trips rer vehicle unit per month. Wahile the condition
of the road un(oubtedly affects the capacity of the existinri trucking fleet,
the traffic on the existinr' roaC cou]d be pushed up by continued expansion
of the fleet until caracity constraints on ]ess flexible parts of the system,
i.e., the ports and storag-( facilities, becore operative.
2.14      Since mid-1966 drastic f'uiel rationing has been imposed periodically
in Zambia, often for many months at a time.   Refined copper production in
1966 was down 15 percent due to fiuel shortages that interrupted smelting
operations. Costly stockpiles of copper concentrates had to be held as
inventory. Fuel (coal and heavy fuel oil) costs for the copper industry
averaged K 6.0 (US$8.110 equivalent) per ton in 1965 prior to UDI; in 1967
the average cost had risen to K 18.0 (US$25.20) per ton including a surcharge
placed by Rhodesia on coal exports to Zambia. Copper transport costs to the
sea averaged K 32.0 (US$44.80) per ton in 1965; the 1967 average by all
routes and modes was K 52.0 (US$72.80). In October 1967 the Rhodesia Railways
increased the charges on Zambian copper by 50 percent and at the same time
on other Zambian traffic by an average of over 25 percent. No systematic
accounting of the economic costs to Zambia of the present situation has
been made; however, the recent increases in rates for Zambian cargoes via
the Rhodesia Railway, demonstrate the degree to which the Zambian economy
is dependent upon a single access route, and the lack of competitive pressure
from alternative routes which could help to ensure low cost external transport
for Zambia.



- 6 -
2.15      While the diversion of transport of oil, copper and general imports
has so far proved to be very expensive, it has failed to reduce appreciably
Zambia's dependence upon Rhodesia for access to the sea.   In 1967, the average
division of the monthly tonnage of import/export traffic between the various
routes was approximately as follows:
Average Monthly Import/Export Tonnap_es
Imports
Via             Via          Via         Via
Rhodesia     Dar es Salaam    Lobito     Mtalawi     Total
Coal &       Oil products     Coal. &   Oil products
general       &f general       general   & general
145,000       20,000          14,000    5,000         184,000
Fxnorts
Copper &                      Copper P. Coprer &
general       Copper          general   general      Total
6o,ooo       17,500          11,5o0     4,500         93,500
*                                                     *
TOTAL:       205 000        37,500         25,500     9,500
*    Including 90,000 tons of co01 fror Wankie, Dhodesia, wVhich is to be
replaced by local supply in 1969.
Long-Range Solutions
2.16      Some 50 or more possible combinations of land transnort solutions
have been considered at various times to meet Zanbia's import/export traffic
needs.  Among these are three means of reaching Dar es Salaan--bv pipeline
(para. 2.17), by road (para. 2.18) and by rail (para. 2.19).   Another possi-
bility is the Great East Road from Lusaka to MfIalawi, and then via either an
existing rail route to Beira in Mozambique or a new rail line that is under
construction to connect the Malawi railways with the Nova Freixo-Nacala
line in Mozambique. This alternative, in addition to involving additional
railway investments, would involve transshipment in Malawi and would also
pass through two countries outside Zambia.
2.17      The most advanced of current projects to develop permanent alter-
native transport capacity to the sea is an oil pipeline from Dar es Salaam
to the Copperbelt. The pipeline is estimated to cost about US$48 million
equivalent and will be capable of handling the entire refined fuel require-
ments of Zambia - about 200,000 tons in 1967. The Zambian and Tanzanian
Governments have formed a joint company to own and operate the pipeline.
Construction began in 1967, and the pipeline is scheduled to be in full



- 7 -
operation by October 1968. At this time, the oil traffic, which accounts
for about half the total present traffic on the Tanzamn highway, will be
diverted to the pipeline, except for the relatively small amounts of oil
types unsuited to pipeline transmission.
2.18      Reconstruction to two-lane bituminous paved standard of the full
length of the gravel/earth sections of the Tanzam highway from Kapiri Mposhi
at the Line of Rail in Zambia to Morogoro in Tanzania (965 miles) is now in
advanced stage of planning, and partly under execution. The Zarnbian sections
are all under construction; the first 122 mile section from Kapiri 1Mposhi
to Serenje is part of the project under Bank Loan 469-ZA, and the 235 mile
Mpika-Tunduma section is the subject of this appraisal report. In Tanzania,
reconstruction of the 150 mile section from the border at Tundurna to Iyayi
is being financed with the assistance of USAID; the remaining 311 miles from
Iyayi to Morogoro are being considered for Bank/IDA financing. The plans
call for completion of the Zambian sections by the end of 1969 and for the
Tanzanian sections by the end of 1971.   The improved and realigned Copper-
belt - Dar es Salaam road link will be about 1,170 miles in length, including
the section along the Line of Rail north of Kapiri Mposhi.
2.19      In addition to the pipeline and improved road connection, the
Zambian and Tanzanian Governments have announced their intention to construct
a 980 mile rail link from Kapiri Mposhi on the Zambian Railway systemn to the
Kidatu railhead of the East African railway system in Tanzania, which would
provide a 1,300 mile route from the Copperbelt to the Indian Ocean, at a
cost of roughly US$400 million equivalent including line construction,
rolling stock, and additional deep water berths at Dar es 'Salaam. The idea
of a rail link predates the emergency by many years and has been the subject
of a number of engineering and economic investigations. The latest inves-
tigation took place in 1966 with financial assistance from the U.K. and
Canada. The Bank has reviewed the consultants' report in conjunction with
the UNJDP and the African Development Bank. This review concluded that three
technical and one economic supplementary investigations were necessary to
complete the feasibility analysis of the project. The major technical
investigation has been undertaken with INDP financing. The Governments of
Tanzania and Zambia, however, have so far not indicated their intention to
proceed with the economic enquiries. The detailed engineering of the link
is now undervay with the assistance of Mainland China, which has also given
some assurances with respect to the financing of eventual construction.
The timing of construction is uncertain. Detailed engineering is to be
completed by the end of 1969. A five-year construction period is probably
a minimum feasible schedule. Presumably, the commitment to invest this
magnitude of capital will remain subject to further decisions based on final
cost estimates and the foreseeable demand for the facility.
Traffic Prospects on the Tanzam Highway
2.20      The future volume and duration of through export/import traffic
on the Tanzam highway is uncertain. Once the pipeline is in operation, and
oil traffic over the road ceases, the intention is to increase the transport
of copper exports and general goods imports. However, while the trucking
capacity could be converted with relative ease from oil to copper and general
cargo, the same is not true of the capacity at the port of Dar es Salaam,



- 8 -
where new deep water berths are required for any additional Zambian general
goods traffic beyond the approximately 190,000 tons of copper exports and
70,000 tons of general cargo imports handled in 1967. Three berths are now
under construction and a further two are planned to be in operation by 1971
to handle increased Zambian traffic in addition to the normal growth of
Tanzanian traffic. The possibilities of containerization of cargoes at
Dar es Salaam in general and of Zambian import cargoes particularly are also
being investigated, and could affect significantly the capacity of the
entire Tanzam highway transport system. If and when the Tanzam railway
is built, it is very likely that most, if not all, Zambian import/export
traffic using the road connection would be diverted to the rail which,
regardless of its economic characteristics, would have to haul the bulk of
available traffic to be financially viable. Under these uncertain circum-
stances, the forecasts of traffic over the project road have been made taking
into account the probabilities of future traffic levels and trends as they
are affected by the main foreseeable constraints on the physical system and
the timing of major investments (See Section 5, Economic Evaluation, and
Annex for details).



- 9 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway System
3.01      The road network comprises over 20,000 miles of various types of
roads (see Map 2):
Length, in miles
Bituminous   Gravel     Earth
Paved Roads  Roads      Roads     Total
Primary roads           905      2,474         519     3,898
Secondary roads          82      1,492     11,807     13,381
Tertiary roads           -           25      3,532     3.557
Total              987      3,991      15,858    20,836
3.02      The geographical distribution of the primary roads is generally
adequate to meet current transport requirements. The primary road along
the rail line is constructed to modern bituminous paved standards; the re-
construction to similar standards of two other primary roads from the rail
line to Malawi (Great East Road) and to Tanzania (Great North Road) is in
process, partly financed by proposed and previous Bank projects. The re-
maining primary roads are gravel surfaced or earth roads, sone sections of
which are becoming inadequate for growing traffic volunes. Many of the
secondary and tertiary roads are poorly maintained, if at all.
B.   Highway Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
3.03      Highway transport is relatively undeveloped.   It is concentrated
mainly along the Line of Rail, utilizing the country's only long-distance
bitumen-surfaced highway. Light Vehicle traffic in particular is concen-
trated in this area. Traffic on the trunk roads to the outlying areas is
generally heaviest near the rail line, and falls off rapidly according to
distance from this rail zone. Since late 1965, this general traffic pattern
has been altered significantly on the Great North Road and to a lesser ex-
tent on the Great East Road by the imposition of heavy through traffic of
imports and exports, as described in the preceding section.
3.04      The motor vehicle fleet expanded rapidly in the 1950's until the
general economic downturn of the early 1960's. Since 1960, the average
growth rate of the light vehicle fleet (cars, pickups, etc.) is estimated
at 7 percent per annum, while for trucks and tractor-trailers, the expansion
has been on the order of 8 percent with the emergency shift to road trans-
port over the past three years. Statistical information on vehicle age is
limited, but on the basis of registration data the fleet appears to be
relatively modern with over 60 percent of all vehicles less than 5 years old.



- 10 -
3.05      On the basis of a 50-point traffic count system instituted under
the supervision of the U.K. Road Research Laboratory in 1961, and of the
past growth of fuel consumption, the current normal traffic growth is esti-
mated at about 7 percent per annum. In arriving at this normal growth rate,
the current import-export road operations through Tanzania and Malawi, and
the rationing of fuel supplies in 7ambia, have both been discounted by
extrapolating pre-1966 traffic trends.
C.   Highway Transport Industry
3.06      Most of the commercial vehicles engaged in public road transport
are run by owner-operators. However, the industry is dominated by three re-7
latively large companies: CARS, a subsidiary of the United Transport Group
(U.K.); Smith and Youngson Ltd., owned by the London and Rhodesia Mining
Company (Lonrho); and the recently formed ZTRS owned by the Zambia and
Tanzania Governments (35 percent each) and Italian vehicle supply and finan-
cial interests (30 percent). Recently the trucking industry has become
increasingly competitive, especially for internal transport for which the
licensing policy has been significantly liberalized.
D.   Highway Administratior-
3.07      The Roads Department (RD), under the Mfinistry of Works and Housing,
is responsible for the administration of the highway system. It has central
services in Lusaka for engineering, construction and maintenance, and eight
provincial divisions throughout the country. The RD has direct control
over the primary road system and about half of the secondary roads: the
Rural Local Authorities are responsible for the rest.
3.08      Professional posts and middle-level technical positions are held to
a large extent by expatriate civil servants inder a program of the U.K.
Ministry of Overseas Development. The RD lost manv experienced officers
during 1966 and 1967 and, although the total number of staff has been kept
about constant through recruitment, the newly recruited personnel is often
inexperienced in the conditions of road administration in Zambia. Moreover,
some vacancies have not been satisfactorily filled. The shortage is still
within acceptable limits at the professional level, but is serious at middle
level technical positions where recruitment is virtually impossible at the
salaries being offered. The present staff is competent but is overburdened
by the increasing demands of road development and maintenance which make it
difficult to maintain satisfactory standards of performance.
3.09      Africanization of public services is an established policy, but
the availability of nationals qualifying for technical positions is extremely
low. The Government is aware that this is a constraint on Africanization.
So far it has taken a pragmatic approach in employing expatriate technicians
to meet the present personnel requirements of the RD. However, the prepar-
ation for Africanization as a long-term solution requires that the profes-
sional education and training of nationals for positions in the RD be promptly
and substantially strengthened. Opportunities for the engineering education
of talented Zambians exist at foreign universities through numerous scholar-
ships, and are being created at the University of Zambia in its recently
established School of Engineering. The Zambian Government has requested



- 11 -
that the Bank consider providing financial assistance for the development
of this institution. However, only a few Zambians are currently taking
advantage of the existing opportunities for engineering studies. The Government
gave assurances under Loan 469-ZA that it will continue its efforts to retain
RD personnel and to recruit replacements for the departing personnel from
national sources and from foreign sources to the extent that qualified Zambians
are not available. During negotiations for the proposed loan, the Government
gave an additional assurance that it will maintain the professional standard
and strength of the RD at appropriate levels, and will take appropriate
steps, both through the promotion of technical education and training, and
through career incentives, to encourage the development of national technical
talent so as to enable Zambians to assume an increasing share in the operations
of the ED. The Government agreed to exchange views with the Bank from time
to time concerning the progress in achieving this goal.
E.   Design Standards, Engineering and Construction
3.10      Design standards follow basic American and British patterns, with
appropriate adaptations to local conditions that make it practical to build
and improve the roads in stages according to traffic growth. The standards
are considered appropriate; however, in the engineering of recent works,
they have not always been applied with adequate care for economies, -which
has led to overdesigning of some of the works.
3.11      In previous years, the RD was heavily engaged in road engineering
and construction. At present, however, the Department is using extensively
the services of engineering consultants and contractors for all major con-
struction projects to cope with the sharp increase in road works since 1965.
The locally established road contractors are mostly foreign owned: all major
road works now underway are being carried out by international firms. Bid-
ding procedures are sound and have proved adequate to attract contractors
on an international basis. Physical conditions are favorable for road
construction and maintenance in most parts of Zambia.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.12      The condition of the roads maintained by the RD is still generally
satisfactory, but that of the roads maintained by the Bural Local Authorities
is poor. The maintenance operations of the RD are highly mechanized and
are carried out by units located throughout the country. In recent years,
contractors also have often been employed in road maintenance for major
regraveling or bituminous resurfacing works. The RD's maintenance practices
are sound; however, increasing demands on personnel and equipment in recent
years have resulted in some deterioration of previous standards.
3.13      Under Loan 469-ZA, the Government stated its intention to improve
the maintenance of the roads under the responsibility of the Rural Local
Authorities. The Government is now planning to set up mechanized Provincial
Construction Units with a view to strengthening the capacity of the Authori-
ties to maintain roads and to carry out some construction works. Technical
assistance is being sought for this purpose from the United Nations. The
Bank considers these preliminary steps by the Government as satisfactory
with regard to its statement of intent.



- 12 -
G.   Highway Expenditures and Investment Planning
3.14      Highway expenditures rose from about K 5.0 million in 1960/61 to
the annual rate of nearly K 20.0 million in late 1967 (see Table 1). The
increase has not been gradual; a large increase in the maintenance budget
occurred between 1961/62 and 1962/63; the budget for new construction has
been substantially increased since the first development plan of independent
Zambia got underway in January 1965. In 1966/67 new construction accounted
for over two-thirds of total highway expenditures. This marks a new period
of intensive road development; the rate of increase in public capital expen-
diture has also been high in other infrastructure sectors.
3.15      In recent years the total recurrent and capital highway budget
has been equivalent to about 6 percent of total public expenditure; investment
in new construction has represented roughly 10 percent. of public capital
formation. Under the current National Development Plan, road construction
is supposed to take up 11 percent of government investment; however, the
relative ease with which road works could be started and the current transport
crisis have pushed the share of road construction to over 17 percent. In
1968, expenditure on road construction is likely to make the highway sector
the largest single recipient of government capital funds, and only a slightly
smaller investor than the whole mining sector. Total road investments over
the 4½2 years period of the present plan (July 1966-December 1970) are now
estimated at about K 105 million.
3.16      Planning of highway investments on the basis of economic criteria
has not been given adequate attention. Feasibility studies have not been
carried out on any of the roads in the current plan. Most of the larger
projects have been decided on the basis of the transport crisis facing the
country. It is now being recognized by the Government, however, that some
resources have been wasted through overdesign and/or the extension of the
crisis mentality to less urgent transport problems. Feasibility studies are
being organized to evaluate future major investments for which funds are not
already committed. Also, the Office of National Development and Planning is
drawing up terms of reference for major studies to provide the strategy for
future transport development and coordination. The Bank's Permanent Mission
for Eastern Africa has offered to assist the Government in these pre-invest-
ment efforts.



- 13 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.o1      The proposed project consists of:
(i)  The reconstruction to two lane biturinous paved standard
of the IT'pika-Tundum. section (235 miles) of the Great
liorth Road (see 1ao 2);
(ii)  The procurement and installation of three weigh bridges
for use in connection wTith the above road-
(iii)  Consultants' servi.ces for the detai].ed engineering
and the supervision of construction of the road secti.on
umder (i), and the detailed engineering of the Lupngwa.
Piver-YTyimnba sectior (63 wniles) of the G7reat East Road.
h.02      The project section of the Creat lorth Road rmns in long straight
stretches through the vast plate.au of northern 7anbia with occasional gradients
between terraces. The road was improved cduring the last decade from an
old earth track to its nresent engineered gravel standard.  It will require
only minor alignment improverents before bituninous paving, except for some
relocations and the easing of the grad.xents.  Although kept under intensive
maintenance, the riding condition of the road has deteriorated, and surface
failures occur frequently since the Z'a.-bian exoort-import traffic was imposed
in 1965.  The weigh bridges will assist enforcement of vehicle weight limit
regulations, which is necessary since pavement perform ance is sensitive
to overloading.
4.03      The section of the Great FRast Road included in the proposed project
for detailed engineering runs through hilly terrain along the divide between
the Zambezi and Luangwa rivers. As a condition of the loan i6)9-ZA for the
first highway project, this road section was reconstructed in 1966-67 from
an earth track to primary standards with gravel surfacing. The detailed
engineering under the proposed project is for the bituminous paving of the
road section.
B.   Design Standards
4.o4      The detailed engineering of the Mpika-Tunduma section was carried
out on the basis of standards adopted by the RD in 1965 for primary roads
(see Table 2). The design speed is 60 mph, and the maximum gradient 7 percent.
In general, the standards are suitable to the terrain and consistent with
the expected traffic. However, the flexibility within the given set of
standards has not been adequately utilized to achieve potential savings.
Insufficient attention was given to fitting the road alignment as closely
as possible to the terrain; gradients in particular were treated too generously.
These inadequacies in the engineering are causing unnecessarily heavy earth
works over some sections, which can not at present be avoided as works are
in advanced stage of execution; however, despite them, the project remains
well justified with a satisfactory rate of return (see Section 5, Economic
Evaluation).



4.05      Depending on the volume and duiration of the export/import traffic,
the pavement over some sections may reouire strengthening a few years after
the road is opened to traf'fic. The design allows for stage construction so
that the pavement can be strengpthened by overlays as required by traffic
growth.  The appropriate time for strengtheninrg woul.d depend on the amount
of traffic and would have to be determined on the basis of the observed
behavior of the pavement.   Durin, negeotiations, assurance was obtained that
the condition of the road will be kept undler observation, and the pavement
strengthened when and if necessar,..
C.   Cost Estimates
4.o6      The cost estimate of the inroject anrd the estimnted foreign exchange
component are as fol.lows (for norp (ietails, see T'able 3):
- -  Total Cots - -    Foreigfn ::Lxchange Component
r'Cwa.cYia. 1!'( Louivrll':. opt,  FIo'; Euivalent
(I '000)
A. Construction
(a)  Vpika.-Tun'c½m' n r(,  O, ,~       1'                   9,290
(b ) Three weigh br                        22 '8
B. ]Engineerinr, Services
(a)  Detailed enrineerinr nnd
supervision of constructi'rm,
Mipika.-Tuanduma road  8(0         1,.!:0                784
(b)  Petailed en,gineering,
Luanf7wa 7.iver-'-,Lriba
roac;                   7-'                               67
C. Continrenc AllowarffS
(a)  for quantity
variations (Onout 10
,5 of Iten A)          950          ,230                 931
(b)  for price variptions
(about 10 5 on aLL
costs)            1j10()           j1,5]i              1,078
Total             12,490          17,li86            12,238
Rounded off       12,500          17,500             12,200
Amount defrayed by U.K.
constribution (see
paragraph 4.10):            1,600          2,200              1,500
Remainder:                   10,900         15,300             10,700



- 15 -
4.07      The estimates for construction are based on contract prices, except
for the weigh bridges. The estimates for engineering services are based
on contracts with consultants (see para 4.05). The consultants have estimated
that an allowance of about 10 percent is required to cover possible quantity
variations in construction. This, together with an allowance of 10 percent
for price variations, is considered appropriate. Construction prices have
increased since the contracts were awarded because of the need to import
materials at higher costs in amounts larger than originally estimated (see
para 4.08).
4.08      The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
about 70 percent.  It includes depreciation of equipment, inported materials,
fuels, snare parts, and the foreign cost of expatriate personnel, overhead,
and profit. The local component includes mainly labor, local services, and
about 3 percent for government revenue from duties and taxes on fuel,
equipment and company profits. The foreign exchange component of civil
engineering work has been rising in Zambia since 1965, due to the outstrip-
ping of local supply canacities by the sudden exnansion of construction
activity, and the increase in transnort costs for imported goods.
D.   Execution
4.09      l"xecution of the project is the responsibility of the RD.  The
detailed engineering of the Great 'iorth Road sections was carried out in
1966 and 1967 by consultants, Edwards and Burrow (UK-Kenya) for the ripika-
Chinsali section and E.G. Pettit and Partners (Ireland) for the Chinsali-
Tundunia section.  These consultants are also supervising construction.  Con-
struction is being carried out under unit price contracts which were awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in mid-1967 to Frederici
Construction Co. Zambia Ltd. (Italy) for the Mpika-Chinsali section, and
to Stirling Astaldi (UK-Italy) for the Chinsali-Tunduma section. Construction
is progressing satisfactorily, it was 35 percent complete as of July 1968,
and is expected to be completed by the end of 1969. The detailed engineering
of the Great East Road section is being carried out by Edwards and Burrow
and is scheduled to be complete by the end of 1968.
E. Financing
4.1o      Total expenditures on the project as of March 31, 1968 amounted to
about US$2.4 million equivalent, and an additional amount of US$4.1 million
equivalent is likely to have been spent by October 1968. The UK has made
available to Zambia a grant in the amount of UKEl3.85 million (US$33.2
million equivalent) in 1966 to cover contingency reauirements arising from
ULI. Fran this grant, an amount of K 1.58 million (US$2.2 million equivalent)
has been allocated for the engineering and construction of the Mpika-Tunduma
Road section, and is being disbursed against total expenditures, both local
and foreign. The U.K. contribution has been fully expended and covered
past expenditures up to about March 1, 1968.
4.11      The amount of the proposed loan is US$10.7 million equivalent, which
would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of the part of the project
not defrayed from the U.K. grant. On this basis, Bank retroactive financing
to cover foreign exchange costs would be required from about March 1, 1968



- 16 -
and would amount, by October 1968, to about US$3 million equivalent. Retro-
active financing in this amount is considered justified since, as explained
before, a Bank appraisal of the project in 1966 was impractical, but execu-
tion could not be delayed because of the transport crisis facing Zambia.
The Government proceeded with the execution of the project in late 1966, on
the understanding that the project would eventually be appraised on its
merits by the Bank and that if the project proved to be justified, retroactivp
financing would be recommended to the Executive Directors.   The Government is
prepared to meet the costs of the project not covered by the U.K. contribution
and the Bank loan from its own budgetary resources.
4.12      The Bank would reimburse to the Government 70 percent of payments
made to consultants and to contractors, over and above the amounts alread2y
covered by the U.K. contribution. Any surplus funds remaining on the loar
account would be cancelled. Disbursements from the proposed loan are exrected
to be as follows (US!1_ million equivalent):
1"68      1 96      1Q70      Total
3.7       (Ks       0.5      10.7



- 17 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Introduction
5.01      Due to the uncertainties surrounding this project and the relatively
complex economic issues it raises, the economic evaluation section of this re-
port is somewhat longer than usual. The uncertainties arise in forecasting
the economic levels of traffic using the road in the period after it is im-
proved, and how long this traffic would use the road in view of plans to
build a parallel railway. To meet these uncertainties, a probability anal-
ysis was employed in the economic evaluation.
B.   Economic Justification
5.02      The Zambian economy is highly dependent uron import/export trade.
The country is landlocked, in the center of the African Continent, 1200 miles
from the sea. The cost and reliability of transportation for the large volume
and high value of the country's external trade are crucial factors in the
viability and growth of the Zambian economy. The country's over denendence
upon a single link to the sea and the high cost of disruptions in its avail-
ability have been amply demonstrated in the past three years of political
crisis in central Africa.
5.03      The project forms part of a wider international road improvement
and port expansion project that will improve the reliability of transport.
for Zambia by providing alternative access to the sea through Tanzania at
reasonable cost and reasonably quickly. By reducing trucking costs to Dar es
Salaam it will place competitive pressure on the high prices now being charged
by rail facilities. Thus the project should ultimately reduce the external
transport bill of the country way beyond the proportion of total import/export
traffic carried by the road itself. In the evaluation of the project, a
probability analysis has been made, which takes explicit account of the major
uncertainties affecting the volume and duration of import/export traffic that
will use the improved road. The investment is expected to earn a rate of
return of over 15% on the basis of road user savings alone. Even if the
planned railway parallel to the project road were put into operation as soon
as possible, that is, by mid-1974, the road investment would still earn
nearly 11%. In the analysis a clear separation has been made between re-
gional and national perspectives (see para 5.08). While the traffic diver-
sion on which the Justification of this project rests involves a redistribu-
tion of economic activity, the project is justified both on an inter-regional
basis as well as from the point of view of Zambia alone.
C.   Problems of Analysis
5.04      As indicated above, the economic Justification of this project for
the most part depends upon savings in the movement of import/export traffic
diverted to the road. Without the savings from this traffic, the project
would earn only about a 4% return on the basis of the normal growth of local
traffic in Zambia. The volume and duration of future import/export traffic,
however, is very uncertain. By the time the proposed road improvements are
completed in 1970, the present situation, which largely developed out of UDI,



- 18 -
may have been ended. As a result, the need to use the road may have di-
minished considerably. Furthermore, if and when the plans to build a
parallel railway are carried out, the bulk of any import/export traffic
that might then be moving over the road would be diverted to the new railway.
5.05.     In addition to this problem of forecasting the volume and duration
of import/export traffic likely to move over the road, there is the problem
of how to assess any savings on this traffic. Most of any such traffic would
be diverted from the existing Rhodesian Railway system, which has adequate
physical capacity and low operating costs. This traffic could probably be
handled also by other existing rail alternatives given major investments to
increase their capacity. As a first approximation, therefore, the economic
evaluation of this project would allow savings in respect of handling fore-
seeable import/export traffic over the improved road only if the costs of
such transport were lower than the incremental costs of handling this traffic
via existing facilities.
5.06      This approach, however, apart from ignoring the possibility that
there may be little or no change in the current political situation in the
area, and its inevitable impact on the movement of traffic, ignores two
important economic considerations which stem from the fact that Zambia is a
landlocked country. First, Zxambia's vital trade routes to the sea are be-
yong its national control.   Second, the relevant economic costs to Zambia are
the full prices it has to pay for services beyond its national boundaries
(net of any equity participation in the services) rather than the incremental
costs of providing these services. These considerations suggest that some
reasonably efficient alternative capacity and some minimum level of traffic
diversion to this capacity from existing facilities may be economically
justified to give an appropriate measure of transport reliability and to
place sufficient competitive pressure on the existing facilities so that
the prices charged for external transport services do not greatly exceed the
relevant costs of providing *them.
5.07      The level of traffic that it is economical to divert to the project
road depends primarily upon the availability and reliability of existing and
possible other new facilities, the level of prices via these alternatives,
and the costs of diversion. In the circumstances prevailing today for in-
stance, the level of import/export traffic moving over the existing earth/
gravel road is assumed to be economically justified, despite its very high
cost. However, since the future circumstances are highly uncertain, the
levels of traffic diversion that are necessary to achieve reliable access to
the sea and put competitive pressure on the prices of existing facilities
are also uncertain. For the purpose of this economic analysis, therefore,
the likely future volume of such heavy import/export traffic over this road
was arrived at by assessing the probable future need to use the facility,
known physical constraints, the probable timing of other proposed investments,
and the possibilities of future diversion to other alternative routes or
modes (see paras 5.09-5.14 below).
5.08      Having determined the probable economic level of future import/
export traffic over the project road, the evaluation of the proposed investment
rests on the savings in vehicle operating and road maintenance costs in respect
of this traffic on the improved road as opposed to those on the existing



- 19 -
earth/gravel road. These savings, together with the savings derived from
normal and generated Zambian traffic, comprise the benefits of the invest-
ment. In addition to these road user savings, there would be substantial
benefits to Zambia from an exclusively national point of view. At present,
the rates charged by trucking companies to carry traffic to and from Dar
es Salaam (not subsidized) and the average rates now being charged by the
railway companies for traffic via the routes to Beira and Lobito are
roughly the same at about US$49.00 per ton/trip. To the extent that the
US$2.35 expected saving per ton/trip over the road section lowers trucking
rates and forces the rail companies to lower their average rates to remain
competitive, the road user savings will spread to the tonnages using the
railway. The savings to Zambia in this case would exceed US.t7 million per
annum (over 3 million tons), in addition to the road user savings. If we
consider both the Zambian and Tanzanian road improvements, these savings
would exceed US$21 million. 1/ The benefits thus resultinr from reduced
railway rates are not included in the rate of return calculation. While
perfectly real for Zambia, from a regional and strict economic point of
view these benefits result from the cessation of transfers (excess profits)
frorn Zanbia to the Rhodesia and Mozambique railways and are offset bv the
losses of these profits to Rhodesia and Mozambique. There would be, however,
true economic benefits to the extent that the large reduction in the cost
to Zanbia of external transportation stimulates increased production, or at
least removes the barrier to growth that the recently imposed high price
level entails. These latter benefits, are extremely difficult to quantif>-
and are also excluded from the rate of return calculation.
D.   Probable Traffic Levels
Local Traffic
5.09      Local traffic (i.e. excluding import/exnort traffic) is very low
on the proiect road.  The economy in the Zambian territory to the north of
Mpika is in an early stage of development. From ?¶pika to Chinsali daily
traffic is estimated at about 50 vehicles of which about 60G5 are trucks or
buses. INorth of Chinsali to the Tanzanian border only about 40 vehicles
per day use the road of which about 65%O are trucks or buses.  This traffic
is estimated to be growing at the rate of 6% for cars and buses and about
8&v for trucks.  Given the low economic potential for this area of Zambia,
traffic generated by the improvement of the road is not likely to be substan-
tial. Local traffic is not subject to the great uncertainties surrounding
import/export traffic, and therefore not much attention was paid to it in the
probability analysis (see Annex 2 for details).
Import/Export Traffic Volumes and Duration
5.10      The major traffic to be considered is the import/export traffic
which is likely to be using this route after the road is improved. Present
1/   To the extent that the railways do not adjust prices to the new
competition Zambia would be justified in increasing the capacity of
the system to Dar es Salaam until full diversion were possible.



- 20 -
traffic and political conditions do not provide a clear guide for forecast-
ing the needs of the future. The oil traffic which now forms the bulk of
import traffic is about to be diverted to the new pipeline. Many of the
tanker trucks used to import oil were also used to exrort about 200,000 tons
of copper per annum. This copper traffic may be affected by the unbalanced
load that will result from diversion of the oil. The buildup of general
goods import traffic and a balancing load of copper will depend upon capacity
expansion at Dar es Salaam and the continuing need to maintain traffic in
this direction.
5.11      To the extent that the complete embargo on traffic through
Southern Rhodesia declared by the IJnited Nations is in effect after 1970,
all alternatives to the Phodesia Railways would have to be utilized at full
capacity to clear Zambian traffic. Therefore, in this situation the eco-
nomic level of copper and general goods ir-ports using the improved road would
then be determined by the maximum capacity available for Zambian traffic in
the road/truck/port/conmercial distribution system to Dar es Salaam. Fv
late 1970, five additional deer-water berths et Dar es Salaan will have been
completed, and port capacity should be sufficient to handle about 1.1 million
tons of Zambian traffic in addition to Tanzanian requirements. If the truck-
ing fleet is expanded as required, the maximum possible movement over the
project road at that time would be about 0.6 million tons of copper exports
and about 0.5 million tons of general cargo imports. If containerization
(now being seriously investigated) would prove feasible, this maximum
traffic level could be increased by at least 50%0! to about 1.6 million tons
per annum.
5.12      If and when the UN embargo is discontinued, the economic level of
import/export traffic via the project road would be determined by the nminirnum
traffic level reouired to induce and support appropriate road, port and
storage investments in Tanzania and to support a basic trucking fleet.
These facilities and an operating commercial system will require a certain
level of utilization if this route is to provide the ready capacity and re-
liable service to meet the kinds of emergencies a landlocked state rust in-
sure against.  The minimum traffic level required to keep the system avail-
able for use in an emergency is estimated at from 300,000 to 550,000 tons
per annum, (125,000 - 250,000 tons of general imports and 175,000 - 30o,000
tons of copper exports) or roughly 33-55 truck-trailers per day. Contracts
and guarantees for various period of this tonnage range are in effect at
present.
5.13      Between the wide extremes of possible economic levels of import/
export traffic, the actual level would be affected by many factors, includ-
ing the occurrence and duretion of circumstances in which use of the existing
railways is denied, the development of alternatives, the capacity of the
entire system to Dar es Salaam and the portion of this capacity which could
be devoted to Zambian needs. These factors have been assessed in so far as
possible on the basis of probabilities. The details of the probable traffic
levels are given in Annex 2. In brief, the judgment used in the rate of
return calculation is that there is only a 15% probability that the economic
level of import/export traffic (up to the time when a parallel railway may
be constructed) would be less than 300,000 tons per annum or about 33 truck-
trailers per day. This would be a situation in which (a) the present



- 21 -
difficulties with Rhodesia were terminated and other disruption did not re-
occur in the post-1970 period up until the uncertain time when the parallel
railway is built (see para. 5.14); and (b) that either another of the many
conceivable modes or routes were (developed to ensure transport reliability
in this period, or less than 300,000 tons were required to keep the road
system to Dar es Salaam available and adequate to meet possible crises.
The analysis also rests on a judgrent that the probability of an economic
level of import/export traffic of over 1 million tons per annum was not over
25%. This condition would be one in which (a) the present crisis continues
for an undetermined time after the road is improved but before the railway
is built; or (b) that recurrent disruptions plague transport in the area
during this period; or (c) that the existing railways refuse to reduce their
rates to competitive levels; and (d) that the system to Dar es Salaam is
capable of carrying Zambian traffic of these magnitudes. On the basis of
the probability analysis, the expected average level of import/export traf-
fic up to the time when a parallel railway may be built is roughly 750,000
tons per annum or about 430,000 tons of copper exports and about 320,000
tons of general imports per year or abc)ut 75 30-ton truck-trailers per day on
the road.
5.14      The duration of the traffic utilizincr the improved road is also
uncertain, especially in view of the proposed parallel development of a rail
link.  This link, regardless of its economic rerits, would divert most of
the import/export traffic from the road. The most optimistic estimate of the
time when the rail link could become operational is mid-1074, i.e. after
18 months of engineering and about 5 years of construction. There is also
the possibility that the railway would not be built prior to the 1980's
should the Governments concerned conciude that the proposed road improvement
would adequately serve as an alternative or otherwise decide to postpone
construction.  The details of the probalbilities employed in the rate of
return calculation with respect to the timing of cessation of the import/
export traffic on the project road due to the coming into operation of the
parallel rail link are given in Annex 2.  Briefly, the coming into operation
of the railway before the end of 19T7) apnears to have no more than a 105
chance of being realized.  There is a 50%P chance that it will be operational
sometime before the beginning of 1977, fnd there is a 20% chance that it will
not be built prior to 1981. The most probable completion date is late 1976
with diversion of all import/export traffic to it being in 1977.
E.   Probable Unit Savings in Vehicle Operating and Road Maintenance Costs
5.15      Table 4 sets out estimated vehicle operating costs over (a) a typ-
ical bitumen/asphalt surfaced road; (b) a good gravel road; and (c) a lower
class gravel/earth road in flat-to-rolling and in rolling-to-hilly terrain.
To reflect the actual existing condition of the project road-sections, the
cost of operating over the typical roads have been adjusted on the basis of
transit time, visual inspection, and interviews with major transporters (see
Table 5). The estimated unit savings in vehicle operating costs for various
vehicle types are represented by the difference between the totals in Table
5 and those for the typical bitumen/asphalt road in flat-to-rolling terrain
in Table 4.



- 22 -
5.16      The savings in road maintenance costs depend to a great extent
upon traffic volume and composition. With a certain level of import/export
traffic on the road there are maintenance savings; without this level of
traffic it would be cheaper to maintain the existing earth/gravel road. The
probable daily traffic on the road has been translated from the various types
of vehicles into equivalent traffic units and the annual costs of maintaining
the road with and without improvement have been derived from formulae which
are estimated to reflect the fixed and variable elements of road maintenance
costs.
5.17      While a careful assessment of both vehicle operating costs and
road maintenance costs has been underway in East and Central Africa for a
number of years, there are anomalies and conflicts in the data and in the
approaches used in their assessment. Thus, the uncertainties with respect
to these critical parameters in the rate of return calculation were also
taken into account explicitly by applying probability distributions to the
range of possible values for vehicle operating costs and maintenance costs.
The details are set out in Annex 2.
F.   Probability Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
5.18      Choosing the most probable estimate for the level and duration of
the heavy import/export traffic would obviously yield a single rate of
return.  This, however, would not reflect the uncertainty surrounding the
determinants of these variables and the range of possible and probable
economic results of the project. Furthermore, the application of vehicle
operating cost, road maintenance costs and other critical data to a specific
project involves a multitude of subjective judgments which cannot be synthe-
sized into single values without being affected by some degree of optimism
or conservatism. To avoid this bias, all of the values considered possible
for each critical factor have been employed in the rate of return calculation,
each value weighted by its assigned probability on the basis of judgment.
With the help of a computer programn developed for this purpose, a large
sample of rates of return were computed. The computer program randonly
selects for each rate of return calculation a single value for each of the
variables and computes the result. The more probable values for each varia-
ble are selected more often than the less likely values in accordance with
their probability weightings. The full range of possible outcomes, each
with an estimated probability according to its frequency in the sample of
results, is the output of the analysis. In this case, 300 economic rates
of return were computed, with results ranging from 2.1% to 29.2%. The
probability of earning a specific rate of return or more is deduced from
the sample results. The way in which the probability analysis was carried
out is discussed in more detail in Annex 1.
5.19      On the basis of this analysis, the expected rate of return, or
the mean of the sample of 300 rates of return is 15.4%. The probability of
earning any specific rate of return or more is as follows:



- 23 -
Probability of Earning
Rate of Return           More than Rate of Return
0%                           10 0""
5%                            98%1
8%                            90 p
10%                             855
12%                            75,
15.                             50,
20%o                           1 5
25,                             35"
(See Cumulative probability curve presented in Annex 3).   Thus, while there
is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to the values of inportant
variables, there is a relatively small risk that the proposed investment
will not yield a satisfactory return.
5.20      In order to demonstrate the sensitivity of the economic results
to the timing of completion of a parallel railway, rates of return were also
calculated using the single most conservative estimate for this variable in
place of the probability distribution of the values.   On the basis of an
otherwise full probability analysis, but with probable import/export traffic
using the road only until mid 1974, the earliest feasible time for corpletion
of a railway, the savings in respect of vehicle operation and maintenance
costs on the road would still yield a 10.8t rate of return.
5.21      In view of the satisfactory economic returns that can be expected,
the project investment is economically justified. These results explicitly
account for the major uncertainties affecting future utilization of the road.
In addition, together with complementary investments it will yield substan-
tial benefits to Zambia in terms of transport reliability and less expensive
external transport services.
G.   Engineering of the Luangwa River-Nyimba Section of the Great East Road
5.22      This 63-mile section is the remaining section of the 400 mile
Great East Road not now either paved or in the course of being paved. This
road connects Lusaka, the capital, with the agriculturally rich Eastern
Province of Zambia and ultimately with the sea via the road/rail networks of
Malawi and Mozambique. On the basis of the very preliminary and probably high
cost estimates for paving this section of US$3.2 million equivalent, the
investment appears to be marginal, yielding an economic rate of return of
about 8%. This estimate is on the basis of 1967 local traffic levels of
about 95 vehicles per day of which about 60p are trucks and buses growing at
roughly 8% per annum. Present emergency traffic on the road consists largely
of oil which will shortly be diverted to the pipeline from Dar es Salaam.
No long-term plans exist for developing this route as a primary link to the
sea. However, fuel rationing in Zambia has undoubtedly suppressed the local
traffic levels on this section; traffic generation from the improvement of



the other 336 miles of this road will also affect future traffic. The outlook
with respect to economic results is very sensitive to variations in con-
struction costs and traffic estimates. The detailed engineering phase is
being conducted with special emphasis on reducing construction costs as
well as on developing firm cost estimates. In these circumstances, detailed
engineering is justified at; this time, and appropriate for Bank support.



- 25 -
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.o0      The project forms part of Zambia's long-term plans to diversify
its trading pattern and to develop alternative access routes to the sea.
It is soundly conceived, its execution is well underway and holds pranise
of satisfactory completion. The investment is economically justified from
savings in transport costs alone, accounted for with due regard to the
uncertainties surrounding the future volume and duration of traffic.
6.02      During negotiations, satisfactory assurances were obtained from
the Government that:
(i)   the program for the technical education and training
of Zambian nationals will be increased with a view
to ensuring an appropriate supply of Zambian nationals
qualifying for positions in the RD, and that the Government
will exchange views with the Bank from time to time
concerning the progress in achieving this goal (see para
3.09);
(ii)   the condition of the project road will be kept under
observation and the pavement will be strengthened by
overlays when and if necessary (see para 4.05).
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$10.7 million equivalent, with a. 20-year term including a two-year period
of grace.
September 10, 1968






ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Probability Analysis of the Economic Rate of Return
1.        Due to the uncertainties surrounding the major variables of the
economic evaluation, the selection of single values for these variables and
use of them in the rate of return calculation would give a misleading
impression. A probability analysis was conducted to reflect the full
range of possibilities, and the likelihood of various results within this
range.
2.        The first step of the analysis consisted of writing a computer
program for the calculation of the rate of return of the project. The in-
puts of the program were the Bank staff's best estimates of the volume and
composition of future traffic, project costs, vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs with and without the project, the price elasticity of
demand for transport, and. the economic life of the assets as variables; the
output was a single rate of return.
3.        In the second step a sensitivity analysis was made of the rate of
return. For this purpose, each of the parameters was varied one at a time,
and the corresponding values of the rate of return comnuted. Each parameter
was tested by a 10 percent variation around the value which had been chosen
in the determination of the initial rate of return, and for those parameters
which had ranges of uncertainty estimated to be larger than t 10 percent of
the initial estimated value, the rate of return for the two extreme values
of the range was also computed. The results of this sensitivity analysis 1/
indicated which parameters had an important effect on the value of the rate
of return, and allowed the number of variables to be considered in the pro-
bability analysis to be limited to these.
4.        The third and final step in the analysis was the probability analy-
sis proper, which was done by way of a simulation (Monte Carlo technique).
For this purpose a probability distribution was estimated of the values for
each of the parameters selected in the sensitivity analysis. These distribu-
tions reflect the Bank staff's judgments of the uncertainties with respect
to data, and its judgment as to probable future developments. The rate of
return was then computed repeatedly (300 times) using each time, for each
of the selected parameters, a value drawn at random from the range of its
probability distribution. The frequency of a particular value's selection
is governed by its probability weighting. Care was taken to correlate
correlated variables. Finally, the distribution of the rate of return was
statistically deduced from the sample of values obtained.
5.        The hypotheses employed in the analysis are shown in the accompany-
ing table (Annex 2) followed by a graphic presentation of the results in
terms of cumulative probability of earning more than a specific rate of
return (Annex 3).
1/   Technically a partial analysis since combinations of parameters were
not varied simultaneously.






SRC0ND HIGHWAY P8WJT
Oppotthese. of prbability  nIaye or fonoo r te of rero, 5p,iko-Td.           Road
Dies                              Beet Estimate                 Natore of Bonertatoty                            Probability Dl-tribution
A. Nooloerlgaed Co-tro-tim       Co.ts   -
RGod Sectio
Mpik.- iiendli                                                              Qoatity                                    R-ot-ogl-r n range $7 100 000 to $8,300,000
Chilneal-Taod-m                                                             Qetity                                     Reota-glar orage $6,8003,000 to $8,100,000
B. local Trafip (167) AdT
Core
Mpik.-Chin-.1i                                     20                       A-opormo  of traffic -oot                  Re-toog-lar o range 17 to 23
Chiosali-Tnd-                                      12                     Adoprmop of traRffo ocunt                   RGetn3golr op range 10 to 15
Troolo.
$ptka-CbAoaail                                     26                       Aocuracy of tra rfi  o-ot                  Re-tnla.ular o fogy 22 to 30
Coaoeail-Topd-                                     20                      Accura-y of troffio p -ot                   R-ataogolar on raoge 17 to 23
Tr-ok-Tr-ler Combination
Mp,ka-Chioasli                                      S                       A-oorany of traffio o,nit                  R ct-golar on raoe 3 to 8
Cbioeai.i-Tooduoma                                  S                       Acooracy of troff to romat                 Eeot-ga0         o   3 to 0
Traffi GOrovth RPain
Care                                              6%
Trooke                                            8G                        2/
frock-TraTler coettoatimn                          8G
Elneticity of Trafc Dmand
Care                                               75
Trpk.                                             .75                       2/
Tr-ok-Tr-tler opeltoatio                           75
C. Inport/Rrort Traffic (1971) ADT
St pvi'e -etlerI
Volo,                                                                                                                  Peibroih;bllty r
- pap otty of Or e       a  harbor                   lo,                              33
lao=han eoport -inport traffio                    -75                     _ dieirihattoo of iraffstro7 to o be.eg             200                          33 - 66
a1teroattnea.c..er-tee to M.e seho%                                            66 -100
- Cotral Afripan political   ittotiot                202                        lo5 - 120
5S                         120 - 155
Grovtb (Dpratto)                                                                                                                              Yerer to oich traffic
0ed-tie,                  ata to    eree
~bblity                 (ri -ato1ritoa
lOS                           1974
30%                           1975
Zabian   port-port traffic                                                                                                    102                           1976
Period 1971-1976                               0%                       D-orti-s of the traffto                            7.5%                         1977
Prom 1927 no                                 -50%                       Tirdg of -peltio of p-ralie                        7.50                         1978
ratlay ltck                                      2.50                         1979
7.5%                         1980
202                           poe 19Al
Elaticlity of Trafflo D=a-d
Zabian    porti-aport tr-iTlo
D. Vehiole Cpeation Cfet (ICWmile)
Old iond Epik.-Chla..il Seot=in
laro                                              .088                      lack of data                )              Re-t.egolr b-tueo .88 tio,    the bint e.teate ad 1.15
Tp.cko                                            .170                     Lack of dati  &  .ee of truck)              tinee the h, t estimate; all folly  oreloted. 3/ La addl-
Trock-Trailer -oobitn                             .460                      Lack of data                )              ti= operating ote, of t-cks ie varied nolforedy on a -SS
Zabtian oopori-i=pert trf fi                      .460                      Lo ck0f data                )               010 range to mo-o-nt for noceriaoty regardlog sle of tocks.
Old Road Cblneali-TundUma Seotin
Cor                                               .10-ak ofdata                                                        R eiooa beteem      .8% time  tie btt  tsiite and 1.15
TCroke                                            .205                      Laok of da      i    f t-o)                 tiMe the bet .eitmate; al folly    orrelted. 3/ La oddi-
Trock-Tra-ler  -bdm.atoo                          .580                      Lack of data                )               tlon opertlng .oete of -ouok. Ie yerlod anlfornly n a -SS
Zaelan eaport-iport traffl                        .580                      Laok of data                )              o102 range to a-o,eot for Marieilty regordiog ete, of tp.is.
env    d. BPoth Seotan-
Core                                              .061
Trooke                                            .095
Trock-Trailer obtna ti.250
Catlan eopori-inpori tr    ifto                   .250
E. RGod elDlnteomoce (F0$/mile)             Porsoia a o bs Traffio malt
eoivlaimot per day -
?lainieoanoe ooat per Aroo
Old Goad
Fined tern                                           583.8                  Di-ergmo-e of data                          U-oertaioty aco ted fr- b7 taking   -tai.ble tir  niflrolry
Variable ter                                     b -   5904                                                             diltribtted betoeeo $4.2 nd $7.0.
hev R -de
Fined ter                                        a - 840.0                  Dive ... oe of data                         Unoertalnty moonoted fo- by teking voriatle tern a,nlfosy
Variable tern                                    b -   3 15                                                             dletriboted betien $1.4 and $3.5.
F. Trafflo   Hoitn Pila-lete f-or
Edntlvoanpe feet Calooulatioou
Type of Vebiole                         UPqiivaei t    ot)
Light trokn                                          1
Troobo                                               2
Trck-Traller -o=bltt                                 3
Zabia c   port-i-porit v  len                        3
. Life of Goad (yearn)                                  20
0. Othere
Logth of rad, (miles)
Ipika-Chi.n.ei                                     104
Ctioeaj.i-TanGone                                  130
Teare of ett eo of                            1967
CGtironti- period                             2 yea
1J Raclodiog dirnot tae.e and dties.
2/    Ion emittiity variable; variatin  aooord-ig to probability eihin rmngie oooedsred . neneseoy.
3i Thil diatributi Ie     rtificial and ie intended  oly to obtin a plaioeble dietriboti-n of ibe t emlnge from the ispros-.mPt of the road
VI geoared bDce=se vmHdaiG     f -oviege is filly take  oas of by varailot of opmatig    oete no old road.






ANNEX 3
ZAMBIA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROBABILITY PROFILE OF ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN
100%
- - - - - - - -     90% CHANCE OF MORE THAN 8%/
w                                              EXPECTED RATEz OF RETURN
620%
10%/ CHANCE OF MORE THAN 21% ' 
0    5%       ~~10%/      15%       20 %       25 %      3Q0%
RATE OF ECONOMIC RETURN
IBRD-4045






TABLE 1
ZATMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Budgets
(k 1,ooo)
Year              Administration  Maintenance   Construction    Total
1960/61                    532          1,800           2,752       5,o84
1961/62                    708          1,636           2,758       5,102
1962/63                     786         2,782           3,376       6,944
1963/64                     914         2,666           2,244       5,824
1964/65                    674          2,926           2,586       6,186
1965/66                   1,018         2,922           6,000       9,940
1966/67 (18 months)      1,6022'        8,186 -        18,450      28,238
1968 (estimated)           674          4,100-         27,210      31,984
Source: Roads Department
l/Estimated
- Including K3.6 million for extraordinary maintenance
- In addition, K1.45 million for road maintenance in Tanzania






TABLE 2
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
Desirable    Minimulr /
Design speed, mph                                    60           30
Maximum grades, percent                               7            7
Maximum length of limiting grade, feet2/            700          700
Road reserve width, feet                            200          200
Formation width, feet                                32           32
Bituminous surfaced width, feet                     20           20
Pavement type:
subbase                          Gravel, locally stabilized
base                             Cement stabilized gravel
surface                          Double bituminous surface
treatment
design axle load                 18,000 lbs. equivalent
Bridge structures width, feet:
span less than 30 feet           equal to formation width
span more than 30 feet                     24 feet
Bridge loading                            According to British stand-
ards 153, type HA loading
- Minimum Design Standards of the order indicated shall be agreed
between the Director of Roads and the Bank for short sections of
road involving the traversing of difficult terrain or other special
problems, where an economic evaluation indicates that the use of
"desirable" standards does not provide the optimum economic solutions.
2/
Alternatively, unlimited length with climbing lanes.






TABLE 3
ZAPIBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHlrAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
US $1,000
Kwacha 1,000   Eouivalent
A. Road Construction Contracts and
Weigi-dges
1. Road construction contracts:
Great North Road:
Mpika-Chinsali section     4,750
Chinsali-Tunduma section   4,730         9,480       13,272
2. Allowance for quantity con-
tingencies on road construc-
tion contracts (about 10%)                   950        1,330
Subtotal, road construction
contracts including allowance
for quantity contingencies                10,430      1,602
3. Installation of three weigh-
bridges                                       90          126
Subtotal, road construction
and weighbridges                          10,520       ]4,728
B. Engineering Services by Consultants
Detailed engineering and supervi-
sion of construction, Great North
Road:                              b5o
Mpika-Chinsali section       45o
Chinsali-Tunduma section     350
Detailed engineering of the
Luangwa River-Nyimba section
of the Great East Road              70          870         1,218
Subtotal                                11,390       15,946
C. Allowance for price contingencies,
about 10% on all costs                         1,100        1,5hO
Total                                   12,1490      17,486
Rounded off                             12,500       17,500
Amount defrayed by UK contribution
(see para. 4z.lO)                             1,600         2,200
Remainder                               10,900       15,300






SECOND HIUaWAY PROJRCT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Coats (1967-1968)
on:  (I) Erneineered Bitusan/Anohalt. (II) Bagineered Gravel, and (III) Uniuzroved Earth
(US cents per vehicle mile)
A. Flat to Rolling Terrain
Vehicle Category                    Average Car                   Pick-up Track         Average Truck 7 Ton Capacity     Average Bus 50 Passengers                 Truck-trailer
30 Ton Capacity
Fuel Type                             Gasoline                       Gasoline                        Diesel                          Diesel                           Diesel
Road Type                      .         II III                                I I  III                                        I II   III                       I        II       III
Fuel                           1.11    1.24      1.38         1.62    1.68      1.81        1.86      2.26      2.68          1.82     2.28      2.70          4.15     5.18      6.15
Lubricants                      .06      .08      .10          .08     .11       .15          .14      .17       .26           .15       .19      .26           .42      .50       .63
Maintenance
Labor                         .22      .29     .,39          .26     .32       .55          .88     1.39      2.32           .77     1.31      2.29          6.30    10.47     22.30
Parts                         .44      .56      .82          .48     .69      1.10        1.48      2.44      4.00         2.16      3.71      6.40
Tires                           .20      .40      .68          .32     .62      1.20        1.18      2.68      6.05           .64     1.80      4.48          4.30     5.88     11.30
Crew Wages                     1.12     1.40     1.85         1.24    1.56      2.08         1.40     1.77      2.34          1.77     2.34      2.80          1.95      3.55     6.30
Interest                        .78      .97     1.30          .63     .79      1.05          .40      .49       .66           .87     1.15      1.40          1.10     1.60      2.52
Insurance                       .37      .46      .61          .32      .40      .53          .34      .43       .57           .79     1.05      1.26           .40       .60      .90
Depreciation                   2.12     2.79     4.14         2.02    2.74      4.54         1.52     2.32      3.97          4.17     6.28     10.32          6.80     12.40    20.05
TOTAL                          6.42     8.19    11.27         6.97    8.91     13.01        9.20     13.95     22.85         13.14    20.11     31.91         25142     40.18    70.15
B.  Rolling to Hilly Terrain
TOTAL                            7         5    11.80        7711     9.-1     13.90         9     .75 15.05   25.02        1.21 74.4                         26,o 1     3.49 765
1/  Net of taxes, license fees and other transfer payments.      Costs of terminal operation, waybills, company administration, which are not directly affected by road improvement,
are not irrluded.
2/  Account not taken of present fuel rationing and inflated fuel cost situation.
Sources:   J. DeWeille - "Quantification of Road User Savings"     IBRD Occasional Paper No. 2      (East African prices)
United Research Incorporated, Consultant to the Government of Tanzania.
Interviews with trucking firms in Zambia aid Tanzania
Mission estimates.






ZAM4BIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Unit Operating Costs on Project Road Sectionsa
(US cents per vehiclo mile)
Truck    Truck         Bus          Truck-Trailer
Miles     Car     Pickup    7-Ton   50 Passengers    30-Ton Capacity         Remarks
,4pika-Chinsali           104      8.87     9.51    15.a7        22.55             46.08         Good gravel road
Chinsali-Iso'ka            57      8.87     9.51    15.87        22.55             46.08         Good gravel road
Isoka + 41 miles          41      9.48     10.32    17.65        241.85            52.0Y        Rapidly deteriora-
ting gravel
33 miles to Tundlsma       33     11.05    12.65    22.13o       30.o5             67.13         Failing gravel/earth
1/
Costs comparable to totals set out in Table 4
Source: Interpolation from Table 4. Mission estimates on basis of visual inspection,
vehicle operating speeds, and interviews with transporters.
Ii






- ~- ..  I                a . . ......
o ,  Xj
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~~~~~~~~~
LL.3 
LLJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
LU             .......
Lii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (f)
0             -~~~~






W.1' 2
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~    ~    ~~~   ~~~~~~~~ *** .:-  * A  * Z   * *
' ~ ~~~~ ~  - ~ ~ ~  A-  gV  --   J   : 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0' (, , .
u-                               S \ s   s.t  
I-     I                       I  I W, g. 
LI)                    o J  A       I.
tv  @*@@e@*  **@@@@@wes*w@@v@**vv¢s*v*ve*@----   v0w



