RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                Report No. P-636
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
September 12, 1968



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A PROPOSED
LOAI TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR A HIGHWTAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$10.7 million
to the Republic of Zambia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      The Government of Zambia requested in May 1966, at the time of
the negotiations for the first highway loan (469-ZA), that the Bank also
finance the design and construction of the Serenje-Tunduma section of the
Great North Road and of the Rufunsa-Nyimba section of the Great East Road.
At that time it was very difficult to judge the economic justification for
the reconstruction of these road sectionswhich was proposed mainly to
accommodate the diverted traffic resulting from Rhodesia's unilateral
declaration of independence. Moreover, justification would also have re-
quired parallel action by neighboring countries, particularly Tanzania, to
improve their sections of the trunk routes from the Zambian border to the
sea. Due to these uncertainties, the Bank decided that it would be im-
practical to appraise these roads at that time. However, in view of the
transport crisis facing Zambia, it was clear that the Government could not
delay the project until these uncertainties could be clarified. Therefore,
it was agreed that if a subsequent appraisal should demonstrate the recon-
struction of these road sections to be justified, and if in its expenditures
on these road sections the Government followed procedures acceptable to the
Bank, it would be recommended to the Executive Directors that the Bank fin-
ance expenditure on the project retroactively.
3.      The Government again requested Bank consideration of these road
sections in January 1968. A Bank appraisal mission visited Zambia in
March/April 1968. As a result of this visit and information subsequently
provided by the Government, the members of this mission found the
reconstruction of the 235 mile Mpika-Tunduma section of the Great North
Road and the detailed engineering of the 63 mile Luangwa River-Nyimba
section of the Great East Road to be suitable for Bank financing. The
remaining sections of the Great North Road and of the Great East Road
in the originally proposed project were found not to be suitable for finan-
cing due to the award of contracts on a negotiated basis.
4.      Formal negotiations took place in Washington in August 1968.  The
borrower was represented by a delegation led by Mr. E. G. Kasonde,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and including Mr. D.
Hutchinson from the Roads Department, Mr. V.A. McInnes from the Ministry
of Finance, Mr. D. Crapper from the Office of National Development and
Planning, and Mr. D. Gray from the Department of Legal Affairs.
5.      The first lending by the Bank in independent Zambia was a road loan
(h69-ZA) made in 1966. Previously, the Bank made two loans for railways



in Morthern Rhodesia (now Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia, and two loans
for power to the Central African Power Corporation, jointly oimed by
Zambia and Southern Rhodesia.  Zambia has since assumed responsibility
for its share of these loans. Each of the pre-independence loans is
guaranteed by the United Kingdom. There have been no IDA operations in
Zambia. The following is a summary statement of Bank loans in Zambia as
of August 31, 1968.
Loan No. Year   Borrower             Purpose         Amount(US$ Million)
Bank      Undisbursed
74-DR  1953   Zambia               Railways       71             -
lk5-RN  1956   Central African  1/                      2/
Power Corporation    Electric power  40.0           -
197-RN  1958   Zambia 1/            Railways         9.5           -
392-RNS 196Ll  Central African                           2/
Power Corporation    Electric power   3.85          -
469-ZA  1966   Zambia               Roads           17.5           10.4
Total (less cancellations)                  84.8
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        21.6
Total now outstanding                       63.2
Amount sold-                37.6
of which has been repaid 18.2             19.4
Total now held by Bank                      43.8
Total undisbursed                           10.h           10.4
6.     Since June 1, 1966, the Central African Power Corporation has been
unable to obtain the foreign exchange from the governments of Southern
Rhodesia and Zambia for payments under the 1956 and 1964 loans. Zambia
and the United IKingdom have each made one-half of these payments as
guarantor.
7.     I am submitting simultaneously a proposed loan of US$ 5.3 million
for an industrial forestry project. It is expected that an education
As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connection
with the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland at
the end of 1963.
/ Amount guaranteed by Zambia, i.e., one-half of loan.



loan of about US' 17 million will be ready for negotiations within the
next few months, and a livestock developmerit project may be ready for
presentation by the end of this fiscal year. I may also submit proposals
for the financing of an extension to the powxer installati:ons at Kariba
which were financed by Loan 145-RN of 1956.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.     The main characteristics of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:              Republic of Zambia
Purpose:               To help finance the detailed engineering
and reconstruction of the Mpika-Tunduma
section (235 miles) of the Great North Road,
and the detailed engineering of the Luangwa
River-1,yimba section (63 miles) of the
Great East Road.
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to USfl0.7
million.
Amortization:          In 20 years, including a two-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning July 15, 1970 and ending July 15,
1938.
Interest rate:         6 1/2%.
Commitment charge:     3/L of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     A report on the proposed project entitled "Appraisal of the Second
Highway Project - Zambia" (TO-676a, dated September 10, 1968) is attached.
10.    As a landlocked country heavily dependent upon imports and exports,
Zambia must concern itself with ensuring reliable access to the sea as
well as building an internal transportation network to facilitate economic
development. Prior to Southern Rhodesia's unilateral declaration of
independence (U.D.I.) in iNovember 1965, practically all of Zambia's imports
and exports were carried via the Rhodesia Railways through Southern
Rhodesia and the Mozambique Ports of Beira and Lourenco Marques. This
pattern was to a large extent the result of pre-independence policies
aiming at linking the economies of what were then Northern and Southern
Rhodesia. Since attaining its independence, the Zambian Government has
had as a long term goal the development of alternative outlets to the sea.
U.D.I. has, however, forced Zambia to take urgent action to free itself
from dependence on transport routes through Rhodesia, not only as a
result of Zambia's owfn political preferences but also as a result of
economic sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council which restrict the
movement of products to or through Rhodesia.  To meet this emergency,



varicus measures have been undertaken ranging from the construction of an
oil pipeline from Dar-es-Salaam to a temporary military-type airlift by
the Canadian, U.K., and U.S. Air Forces.
11.     One of the measures undertaken to meet this crisis has been the
upgrading and resurfacing of the Great North Road so that it can withstand
the greatly increased volume of traffic it is now bearing. The reconstruction
of the Hpika-Tunduma section of this road for which finance is proposed
under this project, represents a part of this effort. The Great North Road
is the main highway to Tanzania and to the sea via Dar-es-Salaam, and in
1967 carried an average of 30,000 tons per month of imports and exports.
A previous Bank loan (469-ZA) helped to finance the reconstruction and
surfacing of a 122-mile section of this road and the final design of
another 1l7-mile section. A project to improve the Tanzanian portion of the
Great North Road is expected to be ready for presentation to the Executive
Directors in a few months. The proposed financing of the final design of
a 63-mile section of the Great East Road also represents continued Bank
involvement in a road for which financing had previously been provided
under Loan L69-ZA. This road connects the capital with the agriculturally
rich Eastern Province of Zambia and ultimately to the sea via the road/railway
networks of 1Ialawi and Mozambique.
12.     Calculation of the expected economic rate of return on the road
section being built under this project is complicated by various uncertain-
ties, such as the duration of U.N. sanctions, the rate of growJth of capacity
of the Dar-es-Salaam harbor, and the possibility that a railroad to
Tanzania may be put into operations some time after 197h. These and other
uncertainties were taken into account by means of a method that weighs the
various possible events by a probability estimate of the event's occurrence.
This analysis demonstrated that the expected rate of return on the project
is over 15%, and that the probability is only 10% that the rate of return
on the project would be less than 8%. Even if it is assumed that the
railroad to Tanzania would be built at the earliest feasible date (1974)
and that all export/import traffic would be diverted from the road to the
railwaay thereafter, the expected rate of return on the project w^jould still
be nearly 11%. The above calculations only take into account the savings
in transport costs on the traffic over the road and the savings in
maintenance cost on the road. Additional savings to the Zambian economy
may occur since the reduced cost of road transport may induce price cuts
on the existing rail routes to the sea, in order to meet competition.
13.     The cost of the project is estimated at about $17.5 million,
including engineering and contingencies. The UIK has provided a grant of
US.$2.2 million toward the project, which covers total expenditures incurred
until early this year.      The proposed Bank loan wou'ld finance the
estimated foreign exchange component (70%) of the project cost in excess
of the amounts already covered by the 11K grant. Retroactive financing,
which is recommended for the reasons stated in paragraph 2 above, would
amount to about 'j3 million by October 1968. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1969.



- 5 -
14.      Contracts for the reconstruction of the project road have been
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bakc. Similarly, the engineering consultants have
been retained in accordance with acceptable procedures. Execution of the
project is the responsibility of the Roads Department of the Ministry of
Works. Supervision of construction is being performed by consultants
acceptable to the Bank.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRME17T S UTD AUTHORITY
15.      The draft loan agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Zambia
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
16.      The draft loan agreement is similar to other agreements entered
into by the Ban1 for highway projects. Attention is drawn to the provisions
of section 2.03(b) (i) and (ii) regarding retroactive financing for expendi-
ture incurred since February 1, 1968. Note should also be taken of section
5.07(d) which provides that the Borrower keep under observation the road
constructed under this project and strengthen the pavement when and if
necessary3 the pavement is designed to allowJ strengthening in stages by
overlays as required by traffic growth.
PART V - THIE ECONOMY
17.      An economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of
Zambiall, dated August 8, 1968, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 27, 1968. Brief comments on the economy are included in my
report of this date, on a proposed loan for an industrial forestry project.
PART VI - COiIPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOI1UENDATION1-
19.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
Resolution Nlo.
Approval of a Loan to the Republic of Zambia in an
amount equivalent to US$10,700,000.00.



-6-
Resolved:
T1AT the Bank shall grant a loan to the
Republic of Zambia in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million seven hundred thousand
United States dollars (US$310,700,000.00), to mature
on and prior to July 15, 1988, to bear interest at
the rate of six and a half percent (6 1/2%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Second Highway Project) between the Republic of
Zambia and the Bank, which has been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
September 12, 1968



