aThe World Bank                                                      1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                U.S.A.                       Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                                 CONFORMED
                                                                                              November 10, 2011

            H. E. Kerfalla Yansane
            Minister of Economy and Finance
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            Conakry
            Republic of Guinea

            Re: Republic of Guinea: Education for All Project (Credit Number 3552-GUI) and
            Additional Financing for the Education for All Project (Grant Number H433-GUI)
                                           Amendment Letter

            Excellency:

            We refer to:

                    (i)      the Development Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement?) dated August 8,
                             2001 between the Republic of Guinea (“Recipient?) and the International
                             Development Association (“Association?), in respect of the above-
                             captioned project (the “Project?), as amended by letter agreement dated
                             and signed by the Association on June 30, 2005 and countersigned by the
                             Recipient on July 26, 2005;


                    (ii)     the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement? and together with the
                             Credit Agreement, the “Agreements?) dated November 11, 2008 between
                             the Recipient and the Association, providing additional financing for the
                             Project; and

                    (iii)    your letter dated July 25, 2011 pursuant to which you request the Project
                             to be restructured.

            We are pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with your request, and
            accordingly, the Association proposes the following amendments to the Agreements:

                    1.     The Project development objective stated in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to
                    the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the
                    following:




                                           RCA 248423.   WUI 64145     FAX (202) 477-6391
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                         -2-                            November 10, 2011




                “The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts
                to improve the conditions for teaching and learning in its territory,
                through: (i) expanded access to education, (ii) enhanced quality of
                learning, and (iii) strengthened human resource management.?

        2.     Part A.2 (Secondary Education) of Schedule 2 (Description of the Project)
        to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the
        following:

                “2.     Secondary Education.

                 Improving access to secondary education through the construction
                 (and maintenance) of approximately eight (8) new secondary
                 schools (equivalent to approximately 96 classrooms).?

        3.      The Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement is hereby deleted in its
        entirety and replaced by Annex 1 to this letter.

        4.       Section I.A of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement is hereby deleted in
        its entirety and replaced by the following:

        “A.     Institutional Arrangements.

                The Recipient shall:

                (i)     maintain, at all times during Project implementation, the
                        Coordination Nationale du Programme Sectorielle de
                        l’Education (CN/PSE) as the Project implementation unit
                        established under MEPU-EC, with staff having terms of
                        reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
                        Association, including a national coordinator, which shall
                        be responsible for implementation of the Project, including
                        all fiduciary oversight such as procurement, financial
                        management and coordination of the Program; and
                        monitoring and evaluation;

                (ii)    establish by not later than December 15, 2011 and
                        thereafter maintain an inter-ministerial committee
                        acceptable to the Association to monitor the
                        implementation for the national strategy of personnel
                        management in the education sector., and shall be
                        responsible, inter alia, for: a) ensuring the application of
                        the structural reforms to decrease the multiplicity of
                        sources of data related to personnel in education and
                        measure of control of this personnel; b) supporting the
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                        -3-                           November 10, 2011




                        development of an information system that allows national
                        and sectoral levels to manage their personnel and wage
                        bills; c) monitoring the re-deployment of teachers that are
                        in excess numbers in urban areas to benefit the areas that
                        are under-staffed; and d) ensuring, in accordance with the
                        civil service, the development of rules, procedures, and
                        institutional responsibilities in the movement and allocation
                        of teachers; and

                (iii)   establish by not later than December 15, 2011 and
                        thereafter maintain a team acceptable to the Association to
                        monitor the implementation of the action plan of the
                        national strategy for personnel management in the
                        education sector; such team shall be led by the Permanent
                        Secretary (Secrétaire Général) of the MEPU-EC and shall
                        be comprised of at least five staff nominated by such
                        Permanent Secretary who shall be responsible, inter alia,
                        for: a) ensuring that the semi-annual action plans are
                        implemented; b) providing assistance and mobilizing the
                        requisite actors responsible for the implementation of the
                        activities identified in the action plan to ensure that the
                        tasks are achieved; c) evaluating and measuring the
                        performance indicators; d) participating in regular
                        meetings; and e) develop a monthly report describing the
                        implementation of activities and submit it to the CN/PSE
                        and the Permanent Secretary.

        5.     Section I.C of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement is hereby amended
        by inserting the following paragraph at the end thereof:

                “3.      The Project Implementation Manual shall be amended by not later
                than December 15, 2011 to reflect the revised satisfactory Project
                indicators referenced in Section II.A.1 of this Agreement and the
                institutional arrangements referenced in Section I.A of this Agreement.?

        6.      The following Section I.D shall be added after Section I.C of Schedule 2
        of the Financing Agreement:

        D.      Safeguards
                (i)     The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented
                        in accordance with the guidelines, procedures, timetable
                        and other specifications set forth in the Safeguard
                        Documents, and, except as the Association shall otherwise
                        agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                         -4-                            November 10, 2011




                        aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver may, in the
                        opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect
                        the implementation of the Project; and (ii) without
                        limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this
                        Agreement, the Recipient shall regularly collect, compile
                        and submit to the World Bank, in accordance with Section
                        II of this Schedule, reports on the status of compliance with
                        the Safeguard Documents, giving details of: (a) measures
                        taken in furtherance of the Safeguard Documents;
                        (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
                        interfere with the implementation of the Safeguard
                        Documents; and (c) remedial measures taken or required to
                        be taken to address such conditions.
                For the purposes of this Section, the terms:
                (i)     “Displaced Persons? means a person who, on account of
                        the execution of the Project, has experienced or would
                        experience direct economic and social impacts caused by:
                        (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (i) relocation
                        or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to assets, or
                        (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether
                        or not such person must move to another location; or
                        (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally
                        designated parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse
                        impacts on the livelihood of such person;

                        “Environmental and Social Management Framework? or
                        “ESMF? mean the document adopted by the Recipient and
                        dated May 22, 2008, detailing: (a) the measures to be taken
                        during the implementation and operation of the Project to
                        eliminate or offset adverse environmental and social
                        impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable levels; and (b) the
                        actions needed to implement these measures, including
                        monitoring and institution strengthening;

                        “Environmental and Social Management Plan? or “EMP?
                        means the Recipient’s document prepared and disclosed in
                        accordance with the Environmental and Social
                        Management Framework with respect to the Project, that
                        details: (i) the measures to be taken during the
                        implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or
                        offset adverse environmental or social impacts, or to reduce
                        them to acceptable levels; and (ii) the actions needed to
                        implement these measures;
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                        -5-                           November 10, 2011




                        “Resettlement Action Plan? or “RAP? means the
                        Recipient’s document prepared and disclosed in accordance
                        with the Resettlement Policy Framework with respect to the
                        Project, which, inter alia, (i) contains a census survey of
                        Displaced Persons and valuation of assets; (ii) describes
                        compensation and other resettlement assistance to be
                        provided, consultation to be conducted with Displaced
                        Persons about acceptable alternatives, institutional
                        responsibilities for the implementation and procedures for
                        grievance redress, and arrangements for monitoring and
                        evaluation; and (iii) contains a timetable and budget for the
                        implementation of such measures;

                        “Resettlement Policy Framework? or “RPF? mean the
                        document adopted by the Recipient and dated May 19,
                        2008, containing guidelines, procedures, timetables and
                        other specifications for the provision of compensation,
                        rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced
                        Persons; and

                        “Safeguard Documents? means collectively or individually
                        the Environmental and Social Management Framework, the
                        Resettlement Policy Framework, and the Environmental
                        and Social Management Plans and the Resettlement Action
                        Plans prepared in connection with the Project, if any.

        7.       Section II.A.1 of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement is hereby deleted
        in its entirety and replaced by the following:

                “1. The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project
                and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
                Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators
                acceptable to the Association and set forth in the Project Implementation
                Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar
                semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one (1)
                month after the end of the period covered by such report.?

        8.     Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby
        deleted and replaced by Annex 2 to this letter.

All other provisions of the Agreements, except as amended herein, shall remain in full
force and effect.
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                     -6-                          November 10, 2011




Please confirm your agreement to the above by signing, dating and returning to us the
enclosed copy of this amendment letter. Upon receipt thereof, this amendment letter will
become effective as of the date of countersignature.

                                    Sincerely yours,




                              By: //s// Ousmane Diagana
                              Country Director for Guinea
                                     Africa Region


ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF GUINEA


By: //s// Kerfalla Yansane
   Minister of Economy and Finance


Date:__November 10, 2011
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                           -7-                           November 10, 2011




                                                                                      Annex 1

                                         SCHEDULE 1

                                       Project Description

       The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts to improve the
conditions for teaching and learning in its territory, through (i) expanded access to
education, (ii) enhanced quality of learning, and (iii) strengthened human resource
management.

      The Project constitutes the Original Project as well as the first phase of the
Program, which consists of the following additional parts:

        1.      Improved Human Resource Management in the Education Sector.

         (a)   Providing resources for the payment of salaries of primary and secondary
               public school personnel for the months of November 2008.

         (b)   Intentionally omitted.

         (c)   Supporting Project monitoring and evaluation and management;
               specifically, carrying out of: (i) spot checks on the remuneration and
               incentive payments made under Part 1 (a) of the Project and the Recipient’s
               primary and secondary public school personnel payrolls generally; and
               (ii) the audit referred to in Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

         (d)   Supporting a program of activities aimed at strengthening the Recipient’s
               human resources management in the education sector by reviewing (and
               supporting the enforcement of) the applicable legal texts as well as the
               recruitment, allocation and (re-) deployment procedures; such program
               includes:
               (i)      supporting logistics for the control/verification of human resources at
                        all levels of the Recipient education sector (including semi-annual
                        audits to verify the presence of teachers in the classrooms;
                        workshops; field trips; purchase of goods, including a vehicle, mobile
                        phones and scratch cards to introduce social accountability measures;
                        and consultants’ services);
               (ii)     the development of an operational manual for the application of the
                        personnel movement scale, recruitment of consultants to assist with
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                            -8-                           November 10, 2011




                        the development of the personnel movement scale and training,
                        external audit to control the application of the scale, and sensitization
                        campaigns;
               (iii) the development of a policy for higher education as well as the review
                     of the selection methods for entrance into higher education
                     institutions (including the modalities of quotas within each institution
                     of higher education and teacher training institutes (with linkages to
                     the labor market); and the development of accompanying merit-based
                     measures (criteria for obtaining and keeping of scholarships)); and
               (iv) strengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s Planning and Statistical
                    Unit in the Ministry of Pre-University Education to collect and
                    analyze data at the central, regional, and school level.

         (e)   Supporting a program of activities aimed at strengthening the Recipient’s
               human resources management in the education sector through the
               implementation of a coherent data information system and introduction of
               merit- and performance-based incentives; such program includes:
               (i) the development of tools to collect personnel data, training of
                   facilitators, national directors and heads of central departments in the
                   usage of such tools; and
               (ii) Providing resources for the payment of performance-based teacher
                    cash incentives and supporting the development of impact evaluation
                    methodology and assessment, design of survey instruments, data
                    collection in connection with the performance-based teacher cash
                    incentive scheme.?
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                         -9-                           November 10, 2011




                                                                                    Annex 2

The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category?), the allocations of the
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

                                                                     Percentage of
                Category                      Amount of the
                                                                  Expenditures to be
                                           Financing Allocated
                                                                       Financed
                                           (expressed in SDR)
                                                                  (inclusive of Taxes)
                                                                         100%
 (1)     Remuneration and incentive             2,701,000
 payments under Part 1(a)(i) and (b)(i)
 of the Project made prior to November
 10, 2011.
                                                                         100%
 (2)     Remuneration and incentive                   0
 payments under Part 1 (a)(ii) and
 (b)(ii) of the Project made prior to
 November 10, 2011.
                                                                         100%
(3) Consultants’ services and Operating             55,000
Costs under Part 1 (c) of the Project
incurred prior to November 10, 2011.
                                                                         100%
(4) Remuneration and incentive                  3,644,000
payments under Part 1 (a) and (e)(ii) of
the Project made on or after November
2, 2011, as well as goods, works,
consultants’ services, Training and
Incremental Operating Costs made on
or after November 10, 2011 under:

•   Parts 1 (c), (d) and (e)(i) of the
    Project; and

•   Part A.2 of the Original Project.

          TOTAL AMOUNT                          6,400,000


For the purposes of the table above, the term “Training? means the reasonable costs of
training under the Project, based on the annual work plans and budgets approved by the
Association, and attributable to seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with travel
and subsistence allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane                       -10-                           November 10, 2011




facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities directly
related          to        course         preparation          and         implementation.
