 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14707

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 03/31/2015

              Country: Guinea
            Project ID: P050046                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Education For All            Project Costs (US$M):                      420.1                420.1
                        Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       70.0                 92.2
      Sector Board:       Education                   Cofinancing (US$M):                      350.1                  n/a

          Cofinanciers: GTZ, AfDB, EC, AFD,         Board Approval Date :                              07/24/2001
                        USAID, Islamic Dev                   Closing Date:          06/30/2005         12/31/2013
                        Bank, JICA, KfW,
                        OPEC Fund, UNICEF,
                        UNESCO
         Sector(s):     Primary education (40%); Tertiary education (26%); General education sector (15%);
                        Sub-national government administration (13%); Vocational training (6%)
         Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (23%); HIV/AIDS (22%); Gender (22%); Education for all
                        (22%); Decentralization (11%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz       Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project underwent multiple restructurings over the course of the project period, including revisions to the
    project objectives and/or key associated outcome targets. The main thrust of the project (overarching goals and
    project design) remained essentially the same throughout the restructurings; however, for the sake of clarity, this
    review separates the project into four distinct periods:

    Project Period 1 (2001-2005)
    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 3), the project objective was as follows:

        To establish a sustainable framework for good quality universal basic education .

    The Development Credit Agreement (DCA, Schedule 2) states the objective as follows:

        To assist the Borrower in its efforts to implement the first phase of its Program , through the establishment
         of a sustainable framework for reaching high quality universal primary education in its territory .

    Note: The DCA statement of objectives refers to the Borrower's three-phase education reform plan ("Program"),
    which was to be supported by the Bank through a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL). In 2008, at the
    time of Additional Financing, a decision was made to discontinue the support for the APL. Future assistance
    would be provided through a stand-alone investment operation and donor harmonization efforts would continue
    through a sector wide approach.

    For the purposes of this review, the project objective is considered as three separate, specific objectives:
        (i) To establish a sustainable framework for education
        (ii) To reach universal primary /basic education
        (iii) To reach high quality of primary /basic education


   Project Period 2 (2005-2008)
   In 2005, key associated outcome targets were revised for specific objectives (ii) and (iii). A Restructuring/Project
   Paper was not required at the time, but a memorandum identifying the revisions was cleared by the Country
   Director (dated 6/29/2005). The project objective was not changed.


   Project Period 3 (2008-2011)
   In 2008, the project objective was formally revised as follows (Financing Agreement, 2008, page 5):

        To assist the Recipient in its efforts to improve conditions for teaching and learning in its territory , through
         expanded access to education , enhanced quality of learning , and strengthened capacity for decentralized
         management of the sector .

   For the purposes of this review, the project objective is again considered as three separate, specific objectives:

        (i) To expand access to education
        (ii) To enhance quality of learning
        (iii) To strengthen capacity for decentralized management of the sector


   Project Period 4 (2011-2013)
   In 2011, the objective was formally revised again (Restructuring Paper, 2011, page 5) such that specific objective
   (iii) was as follows:

        (iii) To strengthen human resource management


   *** Each of the Project Periods 1-4 are assessed separately, and a combined weighted outcome rating is
   determined according to the amount of the Credit that disbursed during each of the four periods.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/29/2005

c. Components:

   The appraised and actual project costs reported below reflect IDA financing only. Actual costs for the total
   project were not reported in the ICR, due to difficulties in tracking donor contributions.

   Project Period 1 (2001-2005)
   Actual: US$29.6 million (32.1% of total IDA financing)

   1. Improving Access to Education (Appraisal: US$ 19.7 million; Actual: US$ 28.1 million): This component aimed
   to ensure that all children (born in 1997 and later) complete primary schooling, with a focus on under-served
   regions and multi-grade programs. Activities included: construction of 1500 primary school classrooms; and
   renovation of teacher training institutions.

   2. Improving the Quality of Schooling (Appraisal: US$ 41.2 million; Actual: US$ 43.3 million): This component
   aimed to ensure that all children receive a "relevant and meaningful" education, with a focus on establishing a
   framework for more effective support of classroom personnel. Activities for the early childhood level included
   pilot testing of early childhood development programs. Activities for the primary level included school
   improvement grants for primary schools; teacher training curriculum reform; general education curriculum reform;
   provision of textbooks; provision of health education, clean water supplies and low-cost health and nutrition
   services in schools; and school mapping to support the adoption of multi-grade teaching. Activities for the
   secondary level included pilot testing of school improvement grants for secondary schools; pilot testing of
   science and math teaching materials; and pilot testing of an adult basic literacy approach. Activities for
vocational and professional training included pilot testing of a dual-vocational training approach; and pre- and
in-service training for primary and secondary school teachers. Activities for higher education included
construction of a central university library; review and reform of all university programs of study; provision of
research and innovation grants; and upgrading qualifications of university faculty.

3. Strengthening Capacity for Decentralized Management (Appraisal: US$ 9.1 million; Actual: US$ 11.1 million):
This component aimed to ensure that sufficient local resources and capacity are available to carry out the sector
reform efforts. Support for the central and national institutions would aim to shift their roles to setting policies and
establishing effective monitoring systems, while support for local institutions would aim to develop their new
implementation responsibilities. Activities included development of education information systems; development
of financial management systems; and construction of a central ministry administrative building (for the Ministries
of Education, Higher Education, and Vocational/Technical Education).

Project Period 2 (2005-2008)
Actual: US$ 50.1 million (54.3% of total IDA financing)

According to the ICR (page 10 and Annex 10), the following revisions were made to the project design:
  Component 1: Construction of latrines and wells in primary schools was dropped.
  Component 3: The activities to construct a central university library and a central ministry administrative
    building were dropped, as they were considered less important to the achievement of the project objectives.
    Project resources were re-directed towards the renovation and upgrading of seven existing faculty libraries,
    and increased outputs in textbook provision, secondary school and teacher training institution construction,
    teacher training, higher education curriculum reform, and school health.
  Key associated outcome targets: Targets were revised for the following indicators: percent of girls enrolled
    in primary school; completion rate for primary school; primary level textbook:pupil ratio; and average class
    size in primary schools.

Project Period 3 (2008-2011)
Actual: US$ 7.5 million (8.1% of total IDA financing)

According to the Project Paper (2008), Additional Financing (AF) of US$ 10.0 million was approved primarily as
an expedient way to support the government through a fiscal crisis. As project implementation progress was
considered satisfactory at the time, this project was selected from the country portfolio to provide supplemental
financing to the government during the ongoing food and oil crisis.
    Project objective: Although the project's goal remained essentially the same, the statement of objectives
     was clarified as follows: To assist the Recipient in its efforts to improve conditions for teaching and learning
     in its territory , through expanded access to education , enhanced quality of learning , and strengthened
     capacity for decentralized management of the sector . The specific focus on primary/basic education was
     dropped, in order to increase the relevance of project activities in non-primary education.
    Component 3 (AF Appraisal: US$10.0 million; AF Actual: US$ 9.6 million): The additional activities in this
     component aimed to sustain project achievements in improving quality of teaching personnel. Activities
     included the provision of teacher remuneration and incentives for the months of November and December
     2008.
    Key associated outcome targets: Targets were again revised for the following indicators: percent of girls
     enrolled in primary school; completion rate for primary school; and average class size in primary schools.
    Implementing Agency: The primary implementing agency role was changed from the three education
     ministries (Education, Higher Education, and Vocational/Technical Education) to the Ministry of Economy
     and Finance, given the main project activity to fund salaries.

Project Period 4 (2011-2013)
Actual: US$ 5.1 million (5.5% of total IDA financing)

Shortly after approval of the Additional Financing, a coup d'etat took place in the country. During this period of
unrest, the government fell into arrears and almost all donor activity (including the Bank) was suspended for two
years. Bank engagement resumed in 2011, and the newly elected government requested that the remaining AF
funds (US$ 5.5 million) be used for improving human resource management in the education sector.
   Project objective: The project objective was revised such that specific objective (iii) was as follows: "to
    strengthen human resource management."
   Component 3: The payments for teacher salaries and incentives for the month of November 2008 had been
    completed, but these payments were dropped for the second month. The new project activities included
    support for enforcement of legal texts; review of recruitment and deployment policies; and implementation of
    a data information system and merit/performance-based incentive system.
   Implementing Agency: The primary implementing agency role was returned to the three education Ministries.
d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost:
     The appraised and actual (as reported by the project team) project cost was US$ 420.1 million.

   Financing:
      The project was to be financed in part by an IDA Credit of US$ 70.0 million. The actual Credit disbursed was
       US$ 82.6 million. The difference was due to exchange rate fluctuations.
      The project was also be financed through significant funding from donors (US$ 350.1 million). The
       appraised co-financing amounts included the following: African Development Bank (US$ 0.64 million);
       European Commission (US$ 10.4 million); Agence Francaise de Developpement (US$ 8.1 million);
       Government of Germany (US$ 1.6 million); USAID (US$ 21.1 million); HIPC Fund (US$ 34.75 million);
       Islamic Development Bank (US$ 3.4 million); JICA (US$ 4.9 million); KfW (US$ 5.9 million); OPEC Fund
       (US$ 1.7 million). The ICR does not report on the actual contributions from donors, due to difficulties in
       tracking through the extended project period.
      Additional Financing (AF) was approved in 2008 in the form of a US$ 10.0 million IDA grant. The actual AF
       grant disbursed was US$ 9.6 million.

   Borrower contribution :
     The planned Borrower contribution was US$ 232.1 million. The ICR does not report whether this
       contribution was provided in full, although it does refer to persistent delays in providing counterpart funding.
       According to the project team, adequate counterpart funding was provided through 2008, after which the
       Additional Financing was approved and no further counterpart funding was required.

   Dates:
        June 2005: The project's closing date was extended from December 2005 to December 2007. The closing
         date was later extended again from December 2007 to December 2008 (no date provided for approval of
         project extension).
        October 2008: Additional Financing (AF) was approved in the amount of US$ 10.0 million. Although the
         project's goal remained essentially the same, the statement of objectives was clarified in a formal revision.
         The closing date was extended from December 2008 to December 2009, in tandem with the closing date of
         the Additional Financing grant.
        December 2008 - November 2009: A coup d'etat took place in the country which led to the suspension of
         project disbursements and, eventually, all Bank operations.
        December 2009: The project closed according to schedule. (After the Bank re-engaged, the project closing
         date was retroactively extended).
        September 2011: The Bank opened dialogue with the newly elected government and resumed operations
         after the government cleared its arrears. One of the three project objectives was revised to sharpen focus
         on human resource management issues. The project closing date (including for the Additional Financing)
         was retroactively extended to June 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Project Period 1 and 2: High
   At the time of project appraisal, the country was facing critical challenges in the education sector. Access to
   primary education was low, with a gross primary school enrollment rate of 61% (2000). There were also
   significant disparities in access among boys and girls, and among rural and urban areas. Educational outcomes
   were also poor, with less than half of primary level students achieving minimal competency levels in French and
   math. Direct and indirect costs for schooling served as a significant barrier to access for poor households.
   Sectoral inefficiences due to weak management and lack of financing were also prominent issues. In response to
   these challenges, the government prepared an "Education For All" sector reform program (2001-2013), of which
   the main objective was to ensure equitable access to a high quality education system that is relevant for their
   communities and for their economic well-being. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (1997-2000) at the time
   of appraisal identified improved service delivery for poverty reduction, including in basic education, as a priority.
   The current Country Partnership Strategy (2014-2017) continues to prioritize access to basic services.

   Project Period 3: High
   As noted in the Project Paper (2008, page 1), the project was restructured in part to "better align the project
   development objective with project activities, including those under the Additional Financing." The original
   project objective was more explicitly stated, including removing the reference to primary education and therefore
   broadening the relevant scope of activities beyond primary education. The re-stated objectives remained highly
   relevant to country and Bank strategies at the time of restructuring and completion.

   Project Period 4: High
   The final project restructuring revised the third objective to focus specifically on human resource management in
   the education sector. This reflected the newly elected government's adjusted priorities to address inefficiencies
   in pubic spending alongside reforming personnel management in education.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Project Period 1: Modest
   The majority of project interventions were likely to contribute to the intended outcomes, including construction of
   classrooms, teacher training and provision of textbooks. The project design identifies a number of key policy
   reforms to establish a sustainable policy framework for the education sector, including the abolition of school
   fees, and decentralization of school management and teacher training. New initiatives to improve quality of
   education were also to be pilot tested, including school improvement grants, literacy programs, and early
   childhood development centers. However, there was not a systematic plan to evaluate the pilots to inform
   decisions for scaling up. Another shortcoming in the project design is the broad range of project activities
   (encompassing early childhood, higher education, vocational education, and adult literacy) that were not directly
   relevant to the objectives as articulated in project documents, which focus on primary/basic education.

   Project Period 2: Substantial
   According to the project documents (Country Director Memorandum, 2005, page 2), the project restructuring was
   undertaken in part to reduce the scope of project activities by eliminating "non-essential activities which are not
   closely linked to development objectives or less relevant in the present country context." Project resources were
   therefore shifted to activities that were more directly relevant to improving primary education quality.

   Project Period 3: Substantial
   The activities funded by the Additional Financing grant included teacher remuneration and incentives during the
   months of November and December 2008. These project interventions were intended to sustain project progress
   in improving access and quality of education, alongside efforts by the government to strengthen decentralized
   management of the education sector.

   Project Period 4: Substantial
   The revised project activities included more effective management of teacher recruitment and deployment, and
   implementation of information systems. These activities were likely to contribute to achievement of the revised
   objective to strengthen human resource management.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To establish a sustainable framework for education
   Project Period 1 and 2: Modest

   Outputs
     Technical assistance to central ministries in the areas of teacher personnel management, planning and
       budgeting, policy monitoring, and financial management.
     Conducting of national assessments to evaluate learning outcomes in primary education, including a 2005
       longitudinal study, school evaluation for grades 2, 4 and 6, and three assessments of grade 4 learning
       outcomes.

   Outcomes
     The policy of charging school fees for primary/secondary schools was abolished.
     Recruitment of teachers was decentralized to the sub-regional level (even though final authorization
       remained the responsibility of the central ministries).
     Pre-service teacher training was decentralized to regional teacher training institutions.
     Initiatives on school improvement grant programs and reading programs were pilot tested.

   However, the following policy reforms were not adopted/enforced:
     School-level autonomy in textbook selection.
     Adoption of other national languages (in addition to French) as languages of instruction.
     Lengthening of the school year.
Also, a significant lack of public financing, including for non-salary expenditures, hampered efforts to decentralize
budget planning and execution to local levels.


To achieve universal primary education / To expand access to primary education
There was progress made towards achieving universal primary education over the project period; however, there
were shortfalls in achieving some targets.

Project Period 1: Modest
Project Period 2 (revised targets): Modest
Project Period 3 and 4 (revised targets): Substantial

Outputs
  Construction of 1,120 primary school classrooms. This fell short of the target of 1,500.
  Recruitment and training of 8,652 primary school teachers. This surpassed the target of 6,000. The ICR
    (page 42) reports that an independent evaluation showed that the level of proficiency of the project-trained
    teachers was "superior" to the level of teachers trained before project intervention.

Outcomes
  Initial enrollment/intake rate for Grade 1 increased from 70% in 2008 to 85% in 2013. This fell short of the
    Project Period 1 and 2 target of 90%, but achieved the Project Period 3 and 4 target of 83%.
  Gross enrollment rate for girls increased from 51% in 2000/01 to 75% in 2013. This achieved the Project
    Period 1 target of 59%, the Project Period 2 target of 75%, and the Project Period 3 and 4 target of 72%.


To achieve high quality primary education / To enhance the quality of learning
There was evidence of improved learning outcomes and improved aspects of the learning environment..

Project Period 1: Substantial
Project Period 2 (revised targets): Substantial
Project Period 3 and 4 (revised targets): Substantial

Outputs
Primary schools
    Training of 8,652 primary school teachers. This surpassed the target of 6,000. The ICR (page 42) reports
     findings of an independent evaluation in which the level of proficiency of the project-trained teachers was
     "superior" to the level of teachers trained before project intervention.
    Provision of school improvement grants to 3,600 primary schools. According to the project team, these
     grants were largely used for provision of school supplies that were formerly funded through school fees (now
     abolished).
    Provision of 8.7 million textbooks. There was no target specified. However, the ICR (page 42) reports that a
     2006 textbook audit found several weaknesses in the textbook distribution system that resulted in
     "considerable loss." A plan to address the system weaknesses was prepared and the project continued to
     finance textbooks through 2008.
    Payment of teacher salaries and incentives (in November 2008).
    Provision of micro-nutrient supplements and de-worming medicines for school health programs.
    Conducting of pilot reading program in primary schools.

Professional development
    Construction/renovation of five teacher training institutions.
    Rehabilitation of seven university libraries.
    Development of multi-grade teaching strategy and pedagogical materials.
    Review of 50 university programs as part of higher education curriculum reform efforts.
    Training of 400 secondary school teachers in science modules.
    Provision of 114 research and innovation grants to university staff.

Other
    Construction of 70 early childhood education (ECD) community centers. This achieved the target of 70. The
     project also supported the implementation of a national ECD strategy and training of ECD teachers.
    Establishment of adult basic literacy programs, implemented by 43 non-governmental organizations. These
     programs served approximately 35,000 beneficiaries.
    Outcomes
    Learning outcomes
        Grade 4 standardized test scores for French increased from 38% in 2000/01 to 41.2% in 2013. This fell
         slightly short of the target of 42% (for all Project Periods). Similarly, 47.6% of students in Grade 4 were able
         to read in French at a satisfactory level, assessed according to international standards. This fell short of the
         target of 50%.
        There were no data on math scores, as this indicator was dropped in 2005.

    Learning environment
        The primary school completion rate increased from 36% in 2005 to 59% in 2013. This achieved the Project
         Period 2 target of 58%, but fell short of the Project Period 3 and 4 target of 63%.
        The textbook:student ratio at primary schools increased from 1:1 in 2000/01 to 3:1 in 2013. This achieved
         the Project Period 1 target of 1.5:1 and Project Period 2-4 target of 3:1.
        The average class size in primary schools decreased from 55 in 2005 to 46 in 2013. This achieved the
         Project Period 1 target of 48, and the Project 2-4 target of 50.


    To strengthen capacity for decentralized management
    Project Period 3: Modest

    Outputs
      Technical assistance for decentralization of planning, budgeting and data collection processes.
      Establishment of planning and statistical unit in each education ministry. Each unit was able to prepare
        annual statistics books by the end of the project period.
      Introduction of medium-term expenditure framework, but with limited progress in its implementation.

    Outcomes
      38 prefectures prepared and implemented decentralized development plans, surpassing the target of 10.
        Although budgeting and resource management are increasingly being transferred to the decentralized units,
        the ICR (page 21) notes that "a lack of public financing hampered efforts to decentralize the budget
        execution which undermined the actual devolution of planning and budgeting functions to the local level.”
      According to the ICR (page 27), "capacity building of [decentralized] personnel resulted in more timely
        availability of data as well as greater use of the data for local planning and management." There is no
        specific evidence cited.


    To strengthen human resource management
    Project Period 4: Substantial

    Outputs
      Development of a teacher transfer and appointment scale.
      Conducting of three audits of contract teachers, in order to remove “ghost” teachers from the payroll.
      Conducting of assessment on the teacher merit and performance system.
      Initial development of a regional personnel database. The database was reviewed and finalized, but not yet
        implemented.
      Study tours for human resources staff.

    Outcomes
      Recruitment of teachers was decentralized to the sub-regional level (even though final authorization was still
        granted at the central Ministry level).
      100% of teachers were deployed using the new personnel movement approach, surpassing the target of
        95%.

5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Modest.

    The PAD (Annex 4) provides an extensive economic analysis; however, most of the information pertains to an
    analysis of the Sector Expenditure Plan (2001-2013) of the entire education sector rather than the project
    specifically.

    The ICR provides the following data on the efficiency of project resources:
   For the construction of primary school classrooms, the cost per classroom built was estimated at US$ 11,300.
   Although this cost is 26 percent higher than the appraised estimate of US$ 9,000, it is consistent with, or even
   more cost-effective than, costs for another country in the same time period (Ghana: US$ 16,651).

   For provision of primary school textbooks, the average cost per textbook was estimated at US$ 1.4. This was
   consistent with the range of unit costs for other countries in the same time period (Cote d'Ivoire, Burundi, Niger:
   US$ 1.1 to US$ 1.4). However, the ICR (page 42) reports that a 2006 textbook audit found several weaknesses
   in the textbook distribution system that resulted in "considerable loss."

   However, the ICR does not provide the total costs for these two activities, in proportion to total project costs.
   Also, according to the project team, enhanced donor coordination was a positive aspect of project
   implementation. While this could have contributed to efficient use of project resources, there is not enough
   information provided in the ICR for clear validation. In addition, there were significant implementation delays,
   including an extended period of suspended Bank activity, throughout the project period that likely diminished
   efficiency.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Project Period 1 (2001-2005): Moderately Unsatisfactory
   Relevance of the project objectives is rated High, while relevance of the project design is rated Modest due to a
   significant number of activities that addressed non-basic education (i.e. early childhood education, higher
   education, vocational and technical education) although the project objectives centered on primary education.
   Achievement of the objective to establish a sustainable framework for education is rated Modest due to
   shortcomings in adopting critical policy reforms. Achievement of the objective to reach universal primary
   education is rated Modest due to some progress in improving Grade 1 enrollment rates but shortfalls in achieving
   targets. Achievement of the objective to reach high quality basic education is rated Substantial due to evidence
   of improved learning outcomes as well as improved aspects of the learning environment. Efficiency is rated
   Modest.

   Project Period 2 (2005-2008): Moderately Unsatisfactory
   Ratings are same as above for Project Period 1 except for the following: Relevance of the project design is rated
   Substantial due to a reduced scope of activities to focus more on achieving outcomes in primary education.

   Project Period 3 (2008-2011): Moderately Satisfactory
   Relevance of the project objectives is rated High, while relevance of the project design is rated Substantial.
   Achievement of the objective to expand access to education is rated Substantial due to achievements in
   increasing Grade 1 enrollment rates, including reaching targets. Achievement of the objective to enhance quality
   of learning is rated Substantial due to evidence of improved learning outcomes, as well as improved aspects of
   the learning environment. Achievement of the objective to strengthen capacity for decentralized management of
   the sector is rated Modest due to lack of sufficient evidence. Efficiency is rated Modest.

   Project Period 4 (2011-2013): Moderately Satisfactory
   Ratings are same as above for Project Period 3 except for the following: Achievement of the objective to
   strengthen human resource management is rated Substantial due to effective implementation of activities to
   support this objective.


   According to OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines, the final outcome rating of a restructured project is determined
   by weighting the outcome for each project period according to the proportion of the Credit/Grant that disbursed
   during that period. Project Period 1 is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (32.1% disbursed); Project Period 2 is
   rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (54.3%); Project Period 3 is rated Moderately Satisfactory (8.1%); and Project
   Period 4 is rated Moderately Satisfactory (5.5%). The weighted final outcome rating is Moderately
   Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The current government is likely to sustain its commitment to the policy reforms supported by the project.
   However, the ability of the government to finance recurrent costs for the education sector, including those
   financed through this project, is uncertain, as the share of public funding for education is likely to decrease. The
   recent Ebola outbreak is also expected to negatively impact the country's economy and growth. Some of the
   activities supported by the project - school grants, teacher training, provision of textbooks - will continue to be
   supported by a Global Program on Education (GPE) project, although the Bank itself is not planning a follow-up
   basic education project.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The original project design was complex, addressing multiple levels of education from early childhood to
   higher education, with activities financed by multiple major donors and implemented by various institutions.
   Although the design was intentionally aimed at strengthening coordination among donors, as well as capacity
   of the government to lead and manage these efforts, even a minimal level of project implementation capacity
   did not exist among the three education ministries. The ICR (page 11) notes lessons from the previous
   Bank-financed education project (Sector Adjustment Program of Education - PASE 2) that were not
   sufficiently incorporated into the project design, including weaknesses in contract management (for school
   construction) and weaknesses in the textbook distribution system. These continued to pose challenges
   throughout the project period. The ICR (page 12) also notes that "a number of preparatory activities that were
   required for smooth project implementation from the beginning (development of operational manuals,
   procurement plans, and reporting formats) had not been completed by project effectiveness." The risk
   assessment underestimated the overall risk rating as “Modest,” with various government capacity issues
   rated only Modest. The M&E design was overall satisfactory, with relevant and measurable indicators
   capturing both outputs and outcomes.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The first two years of project implementation saw only 13 percent of the Credit disbursed; the ICR (page 12)
   notes that this was due to the lack of readiness, frequent turnover in task team leadership (five different TTLs
   in three years), and high staff turnover in counterpart staff. The Mid-Term Review (October 2004) offered the
   opportunity to restructure the project by reducing the scope of activities, and the pace of implementation
   improved considerably, alongside increased Bank staff continuity. The disbursement rate increased, and
   project funds were committed to key activities including construction of classrooms, provision of textbooks,
   rehabilitation of teacher training institutions, and school improvement grants. The ICR (page 31) notes a
   2006 Quality of Supervision Assessment finding that there were discrepancies between the Implementation
   Supervision Report ratings (which were mostly Satisfactory) and the text descriptions (which highlighted
   numerous challenges).

   In 2008, the Bank team responded to the need of the government to address a significant budget gap. The
   Bank team worked in an expedient manner to prepare Additional Financing, while also restructuring the
   project to "better align the project development objective with project activities... and to refine certain
   performance indicators to adjust some of the targets given more recent population estimates" (Project Paper,
   2008, page 1). The ICR (page 32) also reports that the Bank team provided "more intense and targeted
   supervision missions which aimed to identify and address any bottlenecks which were impeding timely
   implementation," particularly with regards to fiduciary issues. The M&E framework was constantly revisited
   throughout the project period, although some key indicators and targets were not formally revised (or
   dropped) until late into the project period.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The ICR (page 38) notes that the early project period was marked by "limited ownership by the Government,"
   while subsequent years of the project period were marked by various macroeconomic and fiscal management
   crises (leading to cessation of HIPC interim debt relief provisions and reductions in donor aid). The ICR
   (page 13) reports that these conditions affected the project in the following ways: education budgets fell
   consistently below targets and counterpart funding was delayed (which led to implementation delays); and
   suspension of Bank disbursements threatened the sustainability of project achievements to date. The most
   recently elected government in 2011 has provided a more favorable environment for reform efforts and project
   implementation support.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Performance of the three main education ministries – Education, Higher Education, and Vocational and
   Technical Education - was overall marked by inadequate capacity. There was an initial period of high staff
   turnover, after which the core staff in the project coordinating unit remained sufficiently stable to facilitate
   capacity building and project implementation efforts. There were significant implementation delays, in large
   part due to procurement and contract management problems in the key activities of school construction and
   textbook provision. However, through intensive Bank support, these challenges were addressed such that a
   number of critical project activities were implemented as planned. The original project design envisioned
   significant donor activity in a cohesive, coordinated sector project; according to the project team, coordination
   with donors did materialize effectively and was a positive aspect of the project's implementation. There were
   no problems reported in safeguards compliance.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The key indicators were relevant and measurable, capturing both outputs and outcomes; however, the indicators
   were mostly focused on the access and quality objectives, and limited for the sectoral management objectives.
   The M&E arrangements relied upon existing data collection systems, including the education management
   information system. Realistic baseline and target figures were identified and constantly revisited throughout the
   project period. Although project design included a number of important innovations to be tested as pilots, it is not
   clear whether these pilots were to be systematically assessed as part of the project design, in order to inform
   decisions about scaling up.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The M&E framework was revised during the multiple project restructurings. Key indicators were clarified in their
   wording, targets made more realistic, and new indicators added to better capture project outcomes, Baseline and
   target figures were modified when updated data became available. However, as noted in the ICR (page 14), it
   was only at the time of the 2011 restructuring that a number of less relevant indicators were formally dropped.
   The ICR notes that several evaluative activities were conducted, including a textbook audit, a teacher audit, and
   assessments of the school grants, reading, and adult literacy programs.

c. M&E Utilization:

   As reported in the ICR (pages 14-15), the M&E activities "did not fully incorporate/utilize evaluations of key
   programs and pilots to improve project performance. More specifically, while the evaluations undertaken were
   able to identify issues and corrective measures during implementation, these assessments were not designed to
   measure the impact or cost-effectiveness of the interventions on access and learning outcomes to inform
   decisions related to scaling-up the interventions or to inform shifts in strategy.”

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "B" project due to construction of schools and latrines,
   and provision of water supplies. The safeguard policy on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) was
   triggered, and an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment was carried out.

   A safeguards audit was conducted in January 2014, which concluded that "the size and nature of infrastructure
   works carried out under the Project did not have any significant negative biophysical or socioeconomic impacts
   and did not result in the relocation of populations, or loss of livelihood or access to economic assets of
   populations" (ICR, page 17).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial management: The ICR (page 15) reports that there were no major problems reported in accounting
   systems use, preparation of financial statements, adherence to auditing requirements, or qualifications of
   accounting personnel. One rating of Unsatisfactory (2003-04) due to a change in project management staff
   without prior consultation was subsequently resolved. Audit reports were submitted on time and with no
   qualifications, with one exception in 2009: an undocumented expenditure of US$ 215,000 was noted, and
   although the Ministry of Economy and Finance was delayed in responding to this audit finding, it later refunded
   the amount in full.

   Procurement: Procurement performance was less than satisfactory during the initial project period due to weak
   procurement capacity, frequent staff turnover, and lack of readiness of procurement processes (planning,
   document preparation, evaluation of offers, and contract management systems). The ICR (page 16) notes that
   multiple changes in Bank task team leadership and insufficient technical support in the field office further
   contributed to the following: procurement delays, higher prices than otherwise would have been obtained, and
   use of inappropriate processes and methods triggering cancellation and re-launching of large procurements.

   However, due to intensive Bank support beginning in late 2004, procurement performance improved significantly.
   The Bank team provided increased procurement support and training, and closely monitored the procurement
   schedule, which "significantly boosted capacity, implementation, and the quality and reliability of procurement
   processes" (ICR, page 16). Although there continued to be weaknesses in timeliness and contract management,
   all contracts adhered to Bank procedures and requirements.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (page 34-35), adapted by IEG:

         Evaluative activities, including student assessments and pilot test assessments, have less impact when
          they are not strategically used to inform policy making and project implementation support. In the case of
          this project, some of these activities were conducted, but there was no systematic plan established at the
          outset to use the findings to inform decision-making.

         During periods of intense political transitions and crisis, maintaining a minimal level of communication with
          the government can facilitate swift re-engagement following the crisis and bring important dividends. In
          the case of this project, the Bank team demonstrated a high level of commitment to supporting the
          education sector by maintaining interactions with the government and key stakeholders even during the
          period of official disengagement.

    Lessons drawn by IEG:

         In a fragile environment, simplifying the project design and ensuring project readiness are critical factors
          for satisfactory quality at entry. In the case of this project, the multiple decentralized agencies and
          institutions involved made for an overly complex project, and the lack of prepared documents (i.e.
          operations manual) at project launch contributed to a slow start.

         Project restructuring would need to be undertaken as soon as it is feasible to improve likelihood of
          success. In the case of this project, much needed restructuring(s) did not take place until late into project
          implementation. Although the project performed on a more satisfactory level in the latter part of the
          project period, the majority of Credit/Grant had already disbursed and therefore the outcome rating
          remained in the unsatisfactory range.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:
    The ICR is commendable in articulating the shifting context and long implementation experience of this project.
    The ICR is overall consistent with guidelines and provides a detailed discussion of all outputs and results in
    Annex 2; however, the section on project achievements (Section 3.2) should discuss outcomes and results
    achieved for each project objective over the entire project period, not the outcomes and results achieved only
    within the time frame of each project restructuring.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
