The World 3ank                                1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL 3ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 24, 2012
H.E. Kerfalla Yansane
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Conakry, Republic of Guinea
Excel lency:
Re: Selected Grants for the Republic of Guinea
(Listed in Annex I)
Amendment of Additional Instructions: Disbursement
We refer to the individual letters titled Additional Instructions: Disbursement (each a
"Disbursement Letter" and together the "Disbursement Letters") remitted to you from time to
time by the International Development Association (IDA), in its sole capacity in connection with
the IDA grants listed in Annex I and in its capacity as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund in connection with the trust fund grants listed in Annex I ,extended to the Republic of
Guinea ("Recipient"). We would like to inform you that the Disbursement Letters are each
hereby amended to include the following additional instructions:
Section II, Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds, of each Disbursement Letter is amended to
include a new subsection (iii) which shall read as follows:
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4). The Recipient may deliver Applications to
the World Bank through the World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal, by
completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(http://clientconnection.worldbank.org).  Officials of the Recipient may deliver
Applications electronically on behalf of the Recipient if they: (a) have been designated
in writing by the Recipient, pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, to
sign and deliver Applications by electronic means and to receive secure identification
devices ("Tokens") from the World Bank, (b) are registered as users of Client
Connection, and (c) have received from the World Bank Tokens for such purpose. This
constitutes an additional means of delivering Applications to the World Bank. The
Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications
in paper format. The World Bank reserves the right, and may in its sole discretion,
temporarily or permanently, disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the
Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating
authorized signatories to accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications
electronically, the Recipient confirms its agreement to abide by and to cause the


﻿authorized signatories to a)ide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Device In Connection With Use of Electronic Means To Process
Applications for Withdrawal And Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions
of Use of Tokens") provided in Annex 1I. The Recipient also represents and warrants to
the World Bank (and such representations and warranties, including without limitation,
the representations and warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens, shall be relied upon by the Word Bank) that the Recipient shall deliver the
Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to each authorized signatory and shall cause
each authorized signatory to be bound by those terms and conditions.
The subsequent subsections of Section II of each Disbursement Letter are renumbered
accordingly. All other provisions of such Disbursement Letters remain unchanged and remain in
full force and effect. The above-mcntioned amendments to the Disbursement Letters shall
become effective as of the date of this Amendment Letter.
For the purpose of designating authorized signatories to accept Tokens and to sign and
deliker Applications electronically, please submit a revised Authorized Signatory Letter for the
Finarcings or Grants listed in Annex I of this Amendment Letter, in the format provided in
Anne!x III of this Amendment Letter. Upon receipt by IDA of the revised Authorized Signatory
Lette-, IDA will register as users of Client Connection all persons who are authorized by the
Recipient to sign Applications for the Credits/Grants set forth in Annex I of this Amendment
Letter, and will provide those persons with Tokens. If the Recipient would like to change the
persons authorized to sign Applications for any of the Financings or Grants concerned, please
submit a revised Authorized Signatory Letter, in the format provided in Annex IV of this
Amendment Letter, for each relevant Financing or/Grant.
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
in its sole capacity in connection with the IDA grants listed in Annex I, and
in ts capacity as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund in connectio;-wtWdth
trust find grants listed in Annex I
Ousmane Diaga a
Country Director for Guinea
Africa Regiona


﻿Cleared with and cc: Anthony Molle (LEGAF)


﻿Annex I
Serial #  Financer  Loan No                         Description
1     IDA       H4330      Additi Dnal Financing - Education for All
West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program
2     IDA       H2150      (Phase Il-B)
3     IDA       H2400      Electricity Sector Efficiency Improvement
4     IDA       H3290      Village Community Support Program (Phase II)
5     IDA       H3300      Third Urban Development Project (Phase II)
Emergency Food Crisis Response Program -Additional Financing
TF        92930      for the Third Urban Development Project (Phase II)
Emergency Food Crisis Response Program -Agricultural
7     TF        92917      Productivity Support Project


﻿Annex II
Terms and Conditions of Us e of
Secure Identification Devices in connection with
Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications for Withdrawal
And Supporting Documentation
The World Bank will provide secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit the Recipient to
deliver applications for withdrawal under the Agreements and supporting documentation (such
applications and supporting documen:ation together referred to as Applications) to the World
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
A.    Identification of Users.
1.    The Recipient will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter
(ASL) duly delivered to and received by the World Bank each person who will be
authorized to deliver Applications. The World Bank will provide Tokens to each person
identified in the ASL (Signatory), as provided below. The Recipient shall also
immediately notify the World Bank if a Signatory is no longer authorized by the
Recipient to act as a Signatory.
2.    Each Signatory must register as a user on the World Bank's Client Connection (CC)
website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration
on CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1.    The World Bank will physically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be
determined by and satisfactory to the World Bank.
2.    At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of
these Terms and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token.
3.    The World Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and
Conditions of Use have been culy delivered to and received by the CC User.
4.    Promptly upon receipt of the "oken and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will
access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and
set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her
Token, after which the Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for
purposes of delivering Applications. Upon initialization of the Token, the Signatory will


﻿be a "Token User". The Wcrld Bank will maintain in its database a user account
(Account) for each Token User for purposes of managing the Token of the Token User.
Neither the Recipient nor the Token User will have any access to the Account.
5.    Prior to first use of the Token by the Token User for delivering Applications, the
Recipient shall ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by
the World Bank in use of the Token.
6.    Tokens shall be promptly returned to the World Bank upon request of the World Bank.
C.    Management of Tokens.
1 .   Tokens will remain the property of the World Bank.
2.    Use of the Token is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the Token
User in the manner prescribec by the World Bank in the Agreements and these Terms
and Conditions. Any other use of the Token is prohibited.
3.    The World Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the
Token by the Token User, other representatives of the Recipient, or third parties.
4.    The Recipient undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the World Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the World Bank in delivery of
a Token to each Token User) that each Token User is provided, understands and will
abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including without limitation the following:
Security
4.1.  The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN
in written or other form.
4.2.  The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an
Application to the World Bank.
4.3.  The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure
to logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4.  If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectiongworldbank.org.
4.5.  The    Recipient  shall  immediately  notify  the   World   Bank    at
clientconnection(worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are disabled immediately.


﻿Care of Tokens
4.6.  Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be
handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme
temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from
devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-
enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Tokens should be carried and
stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can
output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper operation of electronic
equipment, including the Token.
4.7   Without derogating  from  these Terms and    Conditions of Use, other
technical instructions on the proper use and care Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
5.    Replacement
5.1.  Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at the expense of the Recipient.
5.2.  The World Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token
in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User's Account
6.    Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1.  The Recipient shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User
to use a Token for any reason.
6.2.  The World Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or
permanently disable a Token, de-activate a Token User's Account or both.


﻿Annex III
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Economy and Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
WasK ington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Atter.tion: [Country Director]
Re: Supplementary Authorization Letter for Electronic Disbursement Request
I refer to the Amendment Letter dated           ("Amendment Letter"), amending
the individual letters titled Additional Instructions: Disbursement ("Disbursement Letter") for
the Credits/Grants extended to the Republic of Benin ("Recipient") listed in Annex I of the
Amendment Letter, providing additional instructions for the electronic signing and delivery of
applications for withdrawal and/or for special commitment ("Applications"). I also refer to the
Authorized Signatory Letters submitted to the Bank in respect of each of the Credits/Grants
listeJ in said Annex, authorizing designated persons to sign, on behalf of the Recipient,
Applications under each said Credit/Grant.
For the purpose of delivering an Application to the World Bank, [each] [any two/three]
of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appears in the Authorized Signatory
Letter for each said Credit/Grant as:-eferred to above is authorized on behalf of the Recipient,
acting [individually] [jointly], to deliver Applications for withdrawal under the respective
Credit/Grant, and evidence in support thereof, including by electronic means, on the terms and
conditions specified by the Bank (including the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Iderification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications for
Withdrawal and Supporting Documentation which have been provided by the Recipient to such
person(s)).
This Authorization supplements each Authorized Signatory Letter in the World Bank
records with respect to the Credits/Grants listed in Annex I of the Amendment Letter.
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Annex IV
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Economy and Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 _H Street, N.W.
Was[hington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: '[Loan] [Grant] No. __-   (            Project)
I refer to the 2[Loan][Grant] Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and [name of borrower/recipient] (the
3["Borrower"]["Recipient"]), dated      providing the above-listed 4[Loan][Grant]. 5 [For
the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions,] 6[For the purposes of Section 3.04 of the
Standard Conditions] as defined in the Agreement, any 7[one] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower/
Recipient to sign applications for withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment]
under this 8[Loan] [Grant].
For the purpose of delivering the Application to the World Bank, [each] [any two/three]
of tlo persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf
of t'e Recipient, acting [individually] [jointly], to deliver applications for withdrawal, and
evidence in support thereof, including by electronic means, on the terms and conditions
specified by the Bank (including the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification
Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications for Withdrawal and
Supporting Documentation which have been provided by the Borrower/Recipient to such
person(s)).
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the World
Bank records with respect to [this/these] Agreement(s).
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Instruction to the Borrower: Indicate either "Loan" or "Grant" as appropriate, and delete the one which does not
apply. More than one Loan or Grant may be included in a single authorization letter.
2 Instruction to the Borrower: See footnote I above.
Instruction to the Borrower: Use "Borrower" in the case of a Loan; use "Recipient" in the case a Grant.
4 Instruction to the Borrower: See footnote I above.
Instruction to the Borrower: Use the following bracketed text only for Loans.
6 Instruction to the Borrower: Use the following bracketed text only for trust fund grants.
Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply.
Instruction to the Borrower: See footnote 1 above.


