                         Document of
                     The World Bank




                  Report No: ICR00003234




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-45700)



                           ON A

                          CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 99 MILLION
             (US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          TO THE

                 REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                           FOR A

        POST PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING
     ADAPTABLE PREOGRAM LENDING (APL 1) PROJECT

          IN THE SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
                       OF THE
UGANDA POST PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM


                    JANUARY 12, 2015



                  Education Global Practice
           Eastern Africa Region Country Cluster 1
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2014)

               Currency Unit                  Uganda Shillings
                      US$1.00                   2,752

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 – June 30


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACER       Australian Council for Examination Research
ASC        Annual School Census
ADB        Asian Development Bank
AfDB       African Development Bank
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
BoGs       Boards of Governors
BTC        Belgian Development Cooperation fund
BTVET      Business, Technical and Vocational Education and Training
CMU        Construction Management Unit
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DPs        Development Partners
DPL        Development Policy Loan
ESIA       Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
EMIS       Education Management Information System
EMP        Environmental Management Plans
ERT        Energy for Rural Transformation
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESCC       Education Sector Consultative Committee
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESSP       Education Sector Strategic Plan
ESSU       Education Sector Strategy Update
FA         Financing Agreement
FM         Financial Management
FY         Fiscal Year
GER        Gross Enrollment Ratio
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GNP        Gross National Product
GOU        Government of Uganda
GPE        Global Partnership for Education
HC         Head Count
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

                                     ii
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICT     Information and Communication Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IFMIS   Integrated Financial Management Information Systems
ICR     Implementation and Completion Results report
IFR     Interim Financial Reports
IPF     Investment Project Financing
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
ISR     Implementation Status and Results report
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
KYU     Kyambogo University
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
LSP     Letter of Sector Policy
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MoES    Ministry of Education and Sports
MTBF    Medium Term Budget Framework
MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NAPE    National Assessment of Progress in Education
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NCDC    National Curriculum Development Center
NEMA    National Environmental Management Authority
NER     Net Enrollment Ratio
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NOC     No Objection Certificate
NPV     Net Present Value
NTC     National Teachers’ College
NUSAF   Northern Uganda Social Action Fund
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCN     Project Concept Note
PDO     Project Development Objective
PDU     Procurement and Disposal Unit
PEAP    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PLE     Primary (school) Leaving Examination
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAE     Quality at Entry
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QER     Quality Enhancement Review
RPF     Resettlement Policy Framework
RTF     Reform Task Force
S1      Senior One, first year of secondary education
S5      Senior Five, fifth year of secondary education
SCR     Student to Classroom Ratio

                                  iii
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SFG      School Facilities Grant
STDMS    Secondary Teacher Development and Management System
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
TDMP     Teacher Development Management Plan
TOR      Terms of Reference
TSF      Technical Supervision Firm
TTL      Task Team Leader
TVET     Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UBE      Universal Basic Education
UGX      Ugandan Shillings
UJAS     Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
UNEB     Uganda National Examination Board
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNHS     Uganda National Household Survey
UNICEF   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UPOLET   Uganda Post O-Level Education and Training
UNPS     Uganda National Panel Survey
UPPET    Uganda Post Primary Education and Training Program
USAid    United States Agency for International Development
USD      United States Dollar
USE      Universal Secondary Education




              Vice President:         Makhtar Diop
              Country Director:       Philippe Dongier
              Practice Manager:       Sajitha Bashir
              Project Team Leader:    Innocent Mulindwa
              ICR Team Leader:        Innocent Mulindwa




                                     iv
                                              UGANDA
                        Post Primary Education and Training Program (UPPET)



                                                          CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 1
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 2
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 3
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 3
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 3
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 3
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 4
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 5
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 6
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 7
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................. 8
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................... 9
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 10
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 11
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 12
  MAP




                                                                   v
A. Basic Information
                                                                                  Post Primary Education
Country:                     Uganda                   Project Name:
                                                                                  and Training Program
Project ID:                  P110803                  L/C/TF Number(s):           IDA-45700
ICR Date:                    07/22/2014               ICR Type:                   Core ICR
                                                                                  GOVERNMENT            OF
Lending Instrument:          APL                      Borrower:                   THE REPUBLIC          OF
                                                                                  UGANDA
Original Total                     XDR 99.00M                                           XDR 93.09M
                                                      Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:                        USD 150 M                                              USD
Revised Amount:                    XDR 99.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education and Sports, Uganda.
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: None.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
Process               Date                Process                 Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/20/2008          Effectiveness:                               11/04/2009
Appraisal:            01/20/2009          Restructuring(s):                            07/18/12 08/09/13
Approval:             03/31/2009          Mid-term Review:        06/25/2012           06/25/2012
                                          Closing:                07/31/2012           07/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Substantial
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                    Ratings                Borrower                           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                              Government:                        Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately             Implementing                       Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:                   Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower                   Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:                       Unsatisfactory


                                                     vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                                 QAG Assessments (if
                          Indicators                               Rating
Performance                                    any)
Potential Problem Project at                           Quality at Entry
                                         No                                              None
any time (Yes/No):                                     (QAE):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                                        Yes                                              None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
PDO rating before
                                   Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Education                                          19
Secondary education                                                       74
Tertiary education                                                          7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                           66
Education for the knowledge economy                                         34

E. Bank Staff
Positions                      At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:                Maktar Diop                           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:              Philippe Dongier                      John Murray McIntire
Practice Manager:              Sajitha Bashir                        Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:           Innocent Mulindwa                     Harriet Nannyonjo
ICR Team Leader:               Innocent Mulindwa
ICR Primary Author:            Halsey L Beemer, Jr.


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives of the project are to: (a) increase access to lower secondary
education; (b) improve the quality of lower secondary education; and (c) enhance the enabling
environment for post primary education and training.




                                                      vii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original    Target               Actual        Value
                                                             Formally
                                          Values       (from               Achieved         at
Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                          approval                         Completion       or
                                                             Target Values
                                          documents)                       Target Years
                  Average National Gross Enrollment ratio of Lower Secondary (disaggregated by
Indicator 1:
                  gender)

Value                       32.95%                     47%                41%              37%-All
quantitative or             35.92%                     50%                42%             38%-boys
qualitative)                30.08%                     48%                40%             35%-girls

Date achieved                2008                   3/5/2009          08/09/2013          07/31/2014
Comments
                  Overall target missed by 4.0 percentage points. Boys target missed by 4.0 percentage
(incl. %
                  points. Girls target missed by 5.0 percentage points. Source: EMIS
achievement)
                  Percentage of students who transited from lower secondary to first year of upper
Indicator 2:
                  secondary school (S5) – disaggregated by gender
Value
                                                                         58.0%               30%
quantitative or               44%
qualitative)
Date achieved                 2008                                       08/09/2013     07/31/2014
                  This indicator, which was highly ambitious, was introduced at the restructuring in
                  August 2013. However, vocational education at equivalent levels with S5 (i.e. institutes)
Comments
                  was not taken into consideration in estimating the target whereas the final achieved
(incl. %
                  value included vocational education. This partly explains why the actual value did not
achievement)
                  only miss the target but also fell below the baseline. Source: EMIS

Indicator 3 :     Share of S2 students achieving minimum competency levels – English
                                                                             The indicator had no
                                                                             end target but was
Value
                                                                             meant to assess
quantitative or             81.90%                  N/A
                                                                             progress on the
qualitative)
                                                                             overall national
                                                                             program
Date achieved                2008                 3/5/2009                        07/31/2014
Comments
                  This indicator was dropped during the 2013 restructuring because a three year
(incl. %
                  implementation period was too short a period for project attribution to learning.
achievement)
Indicator 4       Share of S2 students achieving minimum competency levels – Mathematics
                                                                             The indicator has no
                                                                             end target but was
Value
                                                                             meant to assess
quantitative or             69.4%                   N/A
                                                                             progress on the
qualitative)
                                                                             overall national
                                                                             program

                                                   viii
Date achieved                2008                                                  07/31/2014
Comments          This indicator was dropped during the 2013 restructuring because a three year
(incl. %          implementation period was too short a period for project attribution to learning
achievement)      achievement.
Indicator 5       Share of S2 students achieving minimum competency levels – Biology –
                                                                             The indicator has no
                                                                             end target but was
Value
                                                                             meant to assess
quantitative or             36.7%                     N/A
                                                                             progress on the
qualitative)
                                                                             overall national
                                                                             program
Date achieved                2008                                                  07/31/2014
Comments          This indicator was dropped during the 2013 restructuring because a three year
(incl. %          implementation period was too short a period for project attribution to learning
achievement)      achievement.
                  Percentage of students who sit for PLE (Primary (school) Leaving Examination)
Indicator 6
                  entering Senior 1 (Transition rate to S1)
Value
quantitative or              68%                     72.8%               73.6%              69.9%
qualitative)
Date achieved                2008                                     08/09/2013          07/31/2014
Comments
                  This indicator was dropped during the 8/9/2013 restructuring because there was no
(incl. %
                  direct project attribution.
achievement)
                  Average Gross enrollment rate (GER) for lower secondary education for the 10
Indicator 7
                  districts with the lowest gross enrollment ratio
Value
quantitative or   No baseline values          No targets set       N/A              N/A
qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments          Indicator dropped during 2013 restructuring. The indicator was targeted at the project
(incl. %          districts however; the project was implemented at the national level thereby making this
achievement)      indicator inappropriate for measuring project outcomes.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original   Target                Actual       Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values      (from                Achieved        at
Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                             approval                         Completion      or
                                                               Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1:      Direct Project Beneficiaries
Value
                                                                                    1,007,369
quantitative or             316,652                 751,867
                                                                                    Annual EMIS
qualitative)
Date achieved                2008                  07/31/2012                             05/29/2014
Comments
                  Target exceeded. Baseline figure is for number of students enrolled in USE and is based
(incl. %
                  on EMIS data.
achievement)

                                                    ix
Indicator 2 :     Student to classroom ratio
Value
(quantitative                57:1                      74:1            72:1                54:1
or qualitative)
Date achieved                2008                 07/31/2012       07/31/2014         07/31/2014
Comments          Target missed by 18 percentage points. This was an efficiency enhancement measure
(incl. %          and in anticipation for introduction of double shift model of instruction hence the
achievement)      upward moving target Source: EMIS
Indicator 3 :     Student to teacher ratio
Value
                                                                                           30:1
(quantitative                27:1                      22:1            33:1
or qualitative)
Date achieved                2008                 07/31/2012       07/31/2014            07/31/2014
Comments          Please note that the upward moving target was meant to reflect efficiency enhancement
(incl. %          measures undertaken by Government with reflection to teacher deployment. Source:
achievement)      EMIS
Indicator 4 :     Student to textbook ratio
Value
                                                                                            2:1
(quantitative                11:1                       3:1             4:1
or qualitative)
 Date achieved               2008                 07/31/2012        07/31/2014          07/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded by 100 percent. Source: EMIS
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Textbooks purchased
Value
                                                                                   3,898,902 supplied to
(quantitative                  0                  2,000,723
                                                                                   1,559 schools
or qualitative)
 Date achieved               2008                 07/31/2012                            07/31/2014
Comments
                  Textbooks were purchased and distributed to USE schools both within and outside of
(incl. %
                  the UPPET project coverage – therefor a UPPET national program impact
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Permanent classrooms constructed under the project
Value
                                                                   No end target
(quantitative                                          2,305                              3,743
                                                                   was defined
or qualitative)
 Date achieved            11/27/2008              07/31/2012        07/31/2014          07/31/2014
Comments
                  Activity completed. See paragraph 38 of ICR for more complete report on classrooms
(incl. %
                  constructed and completed in target schools.
achievement)
Indicator 7:      Curriculum Review
 Date achieved              2008                                                        07/31/2014
Comments
                  Indicator dropped during the 2013 restructuring. However the project successfully
(incl. %
                  conducted a lower secondary curriculum review during the project period.
achievement)
Indicator 8:      Policy Framework for Skills Development
 Date achieved               2008               07/31/2012        07/31/2014       07/31/2014
Comments          Indicator dropped during the 2013 restructuring. However the project successfully

                                                   x
(incl. %          developed a policy framework for skills development embraced in the 10 year National
achievement)      Vocational Skills Strategy during the project period.
Indicator 9:      Policy Framework for Upper Secondary Development
 Date achieved               2008                  07/31/2012           07/31/2014    07/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator dropped during the 2013 restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 10:     Number of multi-purpose science blocks
Value
(quantitative                  0                          0               0                 281
or qualitative)
 Date achieved            11/27/2008             07/31/2012       07/31/2014         07/31/2014
Comments          Indicator dropped during 2013 restructuring. However, the project constructed 281
(incl. %          multipurpose science blocks. Each block comprised two laboratory rooms, one shared
achievement)      preparatory room and store
Indicator 11:     Number of science kits provided
Value                                                                           5,221 kits to 1,559
(quantitative                   0                                               schools
or qualitative)
 Date achieved                2008                07/31/2012                            07/31/2014
                  Indicator dropped during 2013 restructuring However, the project successfully delivered
Comments
                  5221 science kits to 1559 schools and 5 National Teacher Training Colleges, with
(incl. %
                  complementary chemical kits. 1,475 laboratory technicians were also trained. Source:
achievement)
                  MoES/Project monitoring reports.
Date achieved             11/27/2008                                                    07/31/2014

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

      Date ISR                                                              Actual Disbursements
No.                     DO                           IP
      Archived                                                              (USD millions)
1     06/30/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                           0.00
2     12/23/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                           0.00
3     06/28/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                          44.93
4     04/10/2011        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               44.93
5     11/20/2011        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               44.93
6     06/24/2012        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               72.23
7     12/31/2012        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               86.24
8     06/24/2013        Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            101.38
9     12/30/2013        Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory            116.02
10    06/21/2014        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       125.73
11    07/28/2014        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       137.79


H. Restructuring (if any)
The project was restructured twice, July 18, 2012 and August 9, 2013. In neither restructuring
was the PDO changed. The initial restructuring was to extend the project by two years with a
new closing date of July, 31, 2014. The second restructuring revised the Intermediate Results
                                                    xi
indicators and reduced the scope of civil works in Component 1 and reallocated IDA proceeds
from Categories 2, 3 and 4 to Category 1.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                            xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Country Context. Uganda’s economic growth at the time of preparation was robust with real
growth averaging 7.9 percent over the period 2003 through 2008. The country faced the challenge of
meeting the growing demands for an educated, skilled and comparative work force as well as ensuring
equity in access to quality education to meet the dual goal of sustained economic growth and poverty
reduction. Post primary education was seen as playing a critical role in meeting this challenge by
providing future workers with competencies and knowledge required to increase productivity and labor
mobility. In recognition of this, in 2007 the Government launched an ambitious and comprehensive
reform program to provide universal access to post primary education and training, as well as concurrently
explore options for revitalizing technical education and vocational training to provide demand-driven
skills training

2.      Sector Context. Uganda had made impressive gains in primary education. In 2007 the gross
enrollment ratio (GER)1 at the primary level was 117 percent (girls 117 percent, boys 116 percent) while
the net enrollment rate (NER)2 was 91 percent. However, the enrollment at the secondary level remained
low. In 2007, the GER for the secondary level was only 25.2 percent (girls, 22.4 percent, boys 27.9
percent). Such low levels of participation in secondary education had a serious negative impact on the
social economic development of the country and compromised Uganda’s growth potential.

3.      Between 1997 and 2005, education received the largest share of the Government budget – over 20
percent each year. The education budget share dropped to 17.5 percent in 2007, with 65 percent allocated
to primary education and 23 percent to secondary education. Because of the substantial expansion in
primary enrollments as a result of the highly successful Universal Primary Education (UPE) program in
previous years, an increasing percentage of the education budget was going to primary education thus
adding to the budgetary pressure for lower secondary education. In the face of budgetary pressures to
expand investments in power and other sectors, there was great competition for resources to finance the
transition to mass secondary education and training. To counter the resource constraints, the Government
strategy was, in addition to increasing overall funding to support the secondary education reform program;
to improve efficiency, strengthen partnerships with the private sector, improve targeting of resources to
schools that are of particular need of support, and mobilize external resources.

4.      Access to secondary education was inequitable, mainly restricted to urban areas and wealthy
sectors of society. The GER for secondary education ranged between 3 percent for the poorest quintile and
43.7 percent for the richest quintile. GER ranged between 2 percent for the poorest quintile in rural areas,
16 percent for the poorest quintile in the urban areas compared to 59 percent for the richest quintile in
urban areas.

5.      The quality and efficiency of secondary education was low and weak. The then current methods
of rote learning and teaching to the test were seen as unlikely to prepare children for their future as active
participants in a changing economic environment- particularly given the increasingly diverse range of
students at primary level who were then moving to post primary education. Education quality suffered
due to poor management and weak teaching capacity. According to the 2008 national standardized test at
the Senior 2 grade level, 81.9 percent of students reached minimum competency levels in English. In


1
    GER refers to the proportion of the population enrolled in secondary education regardless of age.
2
    NER refers to the proportion of the population aged 13-16 that is enrolled in secondary education.
                                                                 1
Mathematics, 69.4 percent of students reached minimum competency levels; while a mere 36.7 percent
did so in Biology, suggesting that science education was particularly deficient.

6.       Factors which hampered efficiency of education included: (a) a curriculum with a large number of
optional subjects leading to small classes and thus precluding the efficient deployment of physical and
human resources; (b) the teacher workload that was very low by international standards 3; and (c) poor
implementation of policies that require staffing lower secondary classes with diploma teachers and
restricting graduate teachers to upper secondary classes, hence increasing the wage bill.

7.     Technical and vocational training programs at the post primary level faced multiple challenges.
This was due to limited demand from parents and communities for places in existing Technical Education
and Vocational Training (TVET) institutions. The participation rate in these courses was below 3 percent
of primary school leavers. Cost of delivery was high (up to four times the cost of general secondary
programs), while the teachers were inadequately prepared. Moreover, there was limited demand from
firms for graduates due to their low skill levels. The MoES judged that the education system could no
longer afford to focus on task-specific or occupation-specific skills, but must instead prepare young
people with skills for decision making, problem solving, life-long learning and self-learning.

8.     The project was justified because of the key role education policy plays in socioeconomic
development and the demonstrated commitment of the Government to implement reforms in order to
achieve sector objectives. The Bank’s education Sector Strategy Update Uganda (1999) cited education as
a “priority investment” and recognized the dual contribution to poverty reduction and competitiveness.
The Government’s education reforms were consistent with the Education Sector Strategic Plan (ESSP)
2004-2015, revised for 2008-2018, as they adopted a system wide approach and comprehensively
addressed sector development.

9.       The Bank’s African Action Plan (2005) emphasized the importance of post primary education,
identifying building skills for competitiveness as one of the eight flagship areas for World Bank practices
for World Bank involvement. For instance, in Uganda, returns to lower secondary education were 24
percent in 2006 and the trend has been stable as per the 2013 estimates. In collaboration with World Bank
staff, the Government had carried out a number of studies including a major analysis of The Efficiency of
Public Education in Uganda (2009) which provided the foundation of the Government to implement
measures to improve the learning environment, foster efficient utilization of available resources and
ensure financial sustainability of the Government’s lower secondary expansion program.

10.     The Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) (Document No, 34310-UG, approved by the Bank
Board in January 2006) supported the implementation of the Third Poverty Eradication Action Plan
(PEAP) and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The PEAP prioritized
education as a necessary condition for development, indicating that Pillar 5 of the PEAP (which included
education) would go towards fighting impediments to growth and address equity concerns due to low
levels of education. The project directly supported the PEAP and therefore UJAS objectives. The project
was seen as directly supporting the Government’s ESSP and thereby would contribute directly to the
MDG on primary completion as more children were known to complete primary education when
opportunities to participate in post primary existed. Additionally, the Bank’s Country Economic
Memorandum of 2007 indicated that the emphasis in education should be on improving quality at both


3
 UNIESCO Institute of Statistics/OECD (2005). Education trends in Perspective. Analysis of the World Bank Education
Indicators, 2005 Edition, Montreal, Canada

                                                           2
primary and secondary levels, and that quality secondary education needed to be rolled out as the labor
markets were demanding skills at that level. It also argued that increasing access by girls to secondary
education would be important to reduce the high fertility rate and hence be a major driver in reaping the
demographic dividend.

Project Context:

11.     Uganda’s Universal Post Primary Education and Training (UPPET) reform program was launched
in 2007. The Government recognized that the Universal Primary Education (UPE) program had
successfully increased primary enrollments to the extent that the demand for Post Primary education had
grown substantially. The UPPET program reformed universalized education at two levels, creating two
sub-programs under UPPET: Lower Secondary Education – USE (also known as Ordinary level in
Uganda) sub program. The equivalent grades for vocational education (schools/community polytechnics)
were another sub program of the UPPET. The Government request was funding for USE. As the project
preparation process approached project appraisal, there was a verbal request for support to vocational
education. However, there was no comprehensive vocational education sub-sector plan, and the remaining
time to appraisal was not sufficient for its development. It was thus agreed that the project would support
the development of the comprehensive sub-sector strategic plan; and with the design of an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) instrument, this subsector would be considered for funding under the second phase
(APL2). In 2012, Government extended the universal program to the upper secondary level and this is
known as the Universal Post Ordinary Level Education and Training Program (UPOLET).

12.     In preparation for support towards the USE sub program of the UPPET, the following were
undertaken: Analytical work on: (i) secondary education financing in Uganda 4 ; (ii) secondary teacher
recruitment and deployment5; (iii) lower secondary curriculum and assessment review6; (iv) public-private
partnerships in secondary education service delivery 7 ; (v) textbooks and instructional materials 8
development and use; (vi) The Public Expenditure Review (PER) on education; (vii) The Efficiency of
Public Education in Uganda, March 2008. Development of a comprehensive secondary education sub-
sector strategic plan informed by the analytical work above with clear articulation of a number of policy
reforms that the sector needed to undertake for sustainable implementation of the UPPET. Government
commitment to the reforms was expressed in the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) also attached to the PAD.
Important to note is that the universalization of secondary education and enactment of strategic policy
reforms in its delivery resulted in four service delivery modals. These are: (i) public fee paying largely
boarding also known as public non-USE schools; (ii) public universal secondary education schools also
known as USE schools; (iii) purely private schools; (iv) private schools in partnership with Government to
delivery USE sub program also known as PPP schools. The Bank support to the USE sub program
targeted only USE schools – both public and PPPs schools (civil works was however limited to the public
USE schools only).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


4
  Financing Universal Post Primary Education and Training Program (UPPET) in Uganda; by Keith Lewin. November, 2006.
5 Teachers in Uganda; Aiden Mulkeen, 2007
6 Uganda Secondary Education and Training: Curriculum, Assessment and Examination (CURRASSE) Roadmap for Reform; by Andrew

Clegg, Wont Ottevanger, Jacob Bregman, Harriet Nannyonjo; and Kasha Klosowska. 2007.
7   Options for Increasing the Scope of Public-Private Partnerships at the Universal Post-Primary Education and Training Level in Uganda;
2007 by Norman LaRocque
8 Textbooks, school libraries and the provision of information & communication technologies for secondary schools a review with

recommendations; Dec 2007 by Tony Read, Nicholas Read & Joshua Okwenu.
                                                                     3
13.    The development objectives of the project were to: (a) increase access to lower secondary
education, (b) improve the quality of lower secondary education; and (c) enhance efficiency in the
delivery of post-primary education and training.

14.      The original indicators for the project, as specified in the project appraisal document (PAD) were:
PDO Indicators: (i) average national gross enrollment ratio (GRE) for lower secondary education
disaggregated by gender; (ii) average gross enrollment ratio for lower secondary education for the 10
districts with the lowest gross enrollment ratios; (iii) share of S2 students achieving minimum
competency levels in English, Mathematics and Biology; and (iv) percentage of students who sit for
primary (school) leaving examination (PLE) enrolling for first year of secondary school (Senior 1). The
original intermediate indicators were: (i) direct project beneficiaries; (ii) lower secondary education
student to classroom ratio; (iii) lower secondary education student to teacher ratio; and (iv) lower
secondary education student to textbook ratio for seven (7) core subjects.9

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

15.     The PDO was not revised during project implementation. However, at the time of August 2013
restructuring, three PDO level indicators were dropped and one was added. The indicators dropped were:
(i) average gross enrollment ratio for lower secondary education for the 10 districts with the lowest gross
enrollment ratio which was dropped because the project was implemented nationally with no special focus
on the districts with the lower enrollments; (ii) share of S2 students achieving minimum competency in
English, Mathematics and Biology was dropped because project attribution to learning outcomes was
difficult to make during the project implementation period; (iii) percentage of students who will sit for
PLE entering Senior 1 was dropped because there was no direct project attribution. Percentage of
students who transit from lower secondary to first year of upper secondary (S5) was added because this
measures the progression of students from lower to upper secondary which was judged to be a better
measure of project impact and quality within lower secondary education.

16.     One of the important reasons for the second restructuring of the project in August 2013 was the
underlying weakness in the MoES’s data collection and reporting structure (see Annex 10 for details).
Data used during the design stage for making assumptions of trends in enrollments proved to be faulty and
therefore project targets were inflated and ultimately not achievable. The MoES’s data reporting system
was modified halfway through the implementation of the project, a development on which the Bank’s task
team was not informed, and this revision produced data, both of the baseline and target values which
differed from those used at the beginning of the project. An attempt was made by the task team late in the
project implementation, January 2014, to fully understand the complexity of the interaction of the two
information gathering and reporting systems, both the old and the new10, so as to provide an accurate data
base upon which the achievements of the project in reaching the PDO objectives could be based. The
results of this January 2014 assessment of the M&E system proved to be useful in better understanding the
impact of the UPPET project – which was substantial – and to recognize why it could not fully reach the
PDO objectives – because the data for the critical indicators and baselines was weak and targets thus
inaccurate and ultimately unreachable. The Bank task team is to be credited for their efforts to rectify this
situation but these efforts ultimately came too late to have a major impact on reporting on the final


9
    See PAD, Table 3 on page 9
10
     See Annex 10 for both the old and new EMIS data systems

                                                               4
outcomes of the project. Tied to the inaccurate PDO targets and weak data reporting system, the project
was not able to achieve the targets set out for it and was therefore judged to be marginally unsatisfactory.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

17.     The main target population was communities and all lower secondary school aged children in
schools offering the Universal Secondary Education reform program of the UPPET in both public and
private schools nationwide. The baseline data on this number during preparation was 120,954 and was
corrected at the time of the second restructuring to 316,652 (as of 08/09/13) and enrollments grew to
1,007,369 lower secondary education students by project closing spread out in 1,822 schools (USE
schools public and private). These USE students benefitted from improved learning environments through
provision of instructional materials including textbooks and science material and infrastructure. Other
target groups included members of School Board of Governors, 922 head teachers who received training
for knowledge and skills in school management and pedagogical leadership, 5313 members of school
management committees for procurement and contracts management from 759 schools who received
training in knowledge and skills in financial management, bursars, classroom teachers, library and lab
assistants, as well as 20 staff members of the Ministry of Education and Sports (MoES) who attended
training in various international programs.

1.5 Original Components

18.     This project was designed to be Phase I of a 10 year IDA-supported three stage Adaptable Program
Loan (APL) for which five milestones were developed to trigger the transition from Phase I to Phase II.
The milestones were: (i) a detailed framework for the revision of the lower secondary curriculum,
examinations, assessments and related teacher development policies approved by the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MoES); (ii) three of the agreed program targets (student to classroom ratio, student
to teacher ratio and student to textbook ratio for seven core subjects) have been met; (iii) endorsement by
the Cabinet of a financially sustainable strategy for development and expansion of upper secondary
education and TVET, inclusion by the MoES in its Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF); (iv)
completion of an external review of the UPPET program reforms included in the Letter of Sector Policy
and agreement on the actions to be taken in Phase II; and (v) commitment of at least 75 percent of Credit
funds. The first phase design included three components as follows:

19.     Component 1. Increase Access to Lower Secondary Education (US$92 million). This
component supported interventions to raise lower secondary enrollment through supporting expansion of
school infrastructure, including the construction of classrooms, libraries, teacher housing, multi-purpose
science rooms and related water and sanitation facilities. A “lower-cost” construction approach was used,
taking place primarily at existing school sites and these were chosen based on the following guidelines; (i)
immediate need of classrooms according to student enrollment; (ii) readiness of Government to provide
teachers to these classroom; and (iii) capacity at the school and community level to assist in the day-to-
day supervision of civil works. The purchase and installation of water capture facilities for each project
supported school were later added to the activities supported by the project.

20.     Component 2: Improve the Quality of Lower Secondary Education (US$48 million) through:
(i) supporting curriculum, examination and assessment reform for lower secondary education, including
associated teacher education. Curriculum reform, include: (a) developing a new curriculum for lower
secondary education and (b) assessing and monitoring educational progress, and designing instructional
materials for the new curriculum; (ii) supporting the improvement of quality of lower secondary education,
including pre-service teacher training, and expanding the capacity of at least one National Teacher ’s
                                                     5
College to augment the supply of teachers, particularly in mathematics and science; (iii) supporting the
provision of in-service training for teachers, head teachers and school’s Boards of Governors, and relevant
training for other education managers, to improve school management, accountability and pedagogical
leadership; and (iv) supporting the improvement of classroom teaching, through the acquisition of goods,
including textbooks, science equipment and other instructional materials. To enhance utilization of the
textbooks and their durability, the project provided 8 metallic lockable bookshelves for placement in
classrooms per beneficiary school.

21.     Component 3: Enhance the Enabling Environment for Post Primary Education and Training
(US$10 million) through: (i) developing and implementing an advocacy and communication strategy for
post primary education and training reforms; (ii) support training to prepare the MoES staff to strengthen
the capacity for management and operations; (iii) strengthen the capacity of the MoES for financial
management and audit; (iv) strengthen the capacity of MoES for national assessment and examination; (v)
carry out studies including, inter alia, preparatory studies for skills development, support to private
schools, double shifting, and effectiveness of school based procurement; (vi) developing a strategy for
reorientation and expansion of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET), and upper
secondary education; and (vii) supporting an external review of the Program in order to guide Phase II of
the then envisioned APL.

1.6 Revised Components

22.     The components were not modified during project implementation. However, there were some
adjustments made in the design of civil works; (i) multi-storey structures were approved in 32 sites arising
from inadequacy of land in some schools to accommodate the needs based allocated facilities under the
project; (ii) two room laboratory blocks were approved in lieu of multi-purpose science rooms; (iii) water
harvesting tanks were provided to all the 659 beneficiary schools planned for phase I and phase II
construction; and (iv) site lay out plans were prepared for all 759 schools that had been planned to benefit
from the civil works component prior to construction (also see paragraph 36 for more detail on the target
schools). These changes impacted budget allocations under Category 1 (Works) and necessitated
additional resources for this Category. Therefore, at the time of the second restructuring in August 2013,
and at the request of the Government of Uganda, and with the agreement of IDA, US$6.85 million
equivalent was reallocated to Category 1 (Works) from the other project disbursement categories.

1.7 Other significant changes

23.     On June 28, 2010, the GoU, requested, and IDA agreed, that additional direct financing would be
sought to assist the MoES to develop a TVET strategy and a suitable team of technical experts was to be
identified. The Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) was accessed by the World Bank
complemented by the Belgian Development Cooperation fund (BTC) through parallel financing towards
technical assistance.

24.     On June 30, 2012, the project was restructured to extend the closing date from July 31, 2012 to
July 31, 2014 in order to complete project activities that had been delayed. Neither the PDO nor any of the
indicators were changed at this time. This restructuring was just to extend the closing date. An
opportunity to rectify PDO and PDO indicators was lost at this moment when the restructuring was merely
to extend the life of the project.

25.    On August 9, 2013, the project was restructured to adjust the results framework as indicated above
and to reallocate exchange rate gains from Categories (2) (Goods and Equipment), (3) (Consultant

                                                     6
Services and Training) and (4) (Unallocated Funds) to Category (1) (Works) in order to cover civil works
costs which had grown due to domestic inflation and cost variations introduced by necessary and agreed
changes in construction contracts.

26.     On February 18, 2014 the Ministry of Finance sent a request to the Bank asking to extend the
project closing date to July 31, 2015. The Bank denied the request because: (i) the project was not on track
to meet the PDO due to problematic data; (ii) disbursement levels were over 80 percent and changes in
PDO targets would not be possible; and (iii) project performance ratings were not satisfactory (see
paragraph 84 for further discussion of this extension request).

27.    At the time of project closing, a request to cancel US$7million of the Credit was submitted to the
World Bank. Upon submission of the final IFR for the project in November 2014, project disbursement
stood at US$142,306,129.13; leaving an undisbursed amount of US$8,433,889.77 which has been
cancelled from the credit and will be used for future IDA operations in Uganda.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

28.     Project Preparation. In 2007, the Ugandan government and IDA decided to support the UPPET
project with an IDA credit. Important in the decision to move forward with a post-primary education
project was the 2007 Public Expenditure Review (PER) which highlighted the high cost of the post-
secondary sector in large part because of high unit costs coupled with wastage in the system (teacher
absenteeism, poor management and weak expenditure monitoring). The PEAP prioritized education as a
necessary condition for development. The finalized agreement at the decision meeting was to provide a
10-year APL that would deal with the UPPET issues of access to; quality, relevance and efficiency of; and
the improved enabling environment of post-primary education due to the lack of adequate facilities in
schools to support the expansion in enrollment, trained teachers and materials. At the request of the
Government, the project was then designed to be Phase I of a ten year APL.

29.    The project was originally conceived as a Development Policy Loan (DPL) funded operation in
support of the lower secondary education subsector strategy. However, difficulties in implementing other
policy–reform focused DPL supported projects in the Africa Region at the time encouraged the
preparation team to consider other funding modalities and during the Pre-Appraisal mission in March-
April 20908, and therefore prior to the final decision meeting, the team decided to move to an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) instrument. This decision was confirmed at the final decision meeting, which
agreed that the sector needed longer term support towards implementation of the UPPET reform program.
Phase 1 (2009-2012 extended to 2014) was designed as the UPPET project.

30.     The UPPET APL was to be implemented over a ten year period in three phases, given the time
needed to develop and implement education reforms and the likely need for technical assistance during the
process. The support was to be delivered within the then existing UPE-Education Sector Credit, Sector
Wide Approach (SWAp) and would finance investments identified with the Government’s national wide
UPPET program. The program – building on the successful Universal Primary Education (UPE) to move
to Universal Secondary Education (USE) – was conceived as comprehensive and highly ambitious and
therefore it made sense to provide support in phases over a long period to allow the Government to
establish a strong foundation to build upon as access expanded. An overlapping APL, when the second
phase could start prior to the completion of the first phase, would be possible if the Government was able
to meet agreed upon triggers to start phase two. The design team developed a detailed set of triggers to
                                                     7
allow for movement from the proposed Phase 1 to Phase 2, triggers which were agreed with Government
and are part of the Financing Agreement (FA). Bank management, part way through the project
implementation period, pulled away from the use of APLs in general Bank-wide projects and directed that
the project be limited to what had originally been identified as Phase 1 of an APL.

31.     The Bank preparation and appraisal teams consisted of technical experts who were appropriate for
the development of the project. The preparation process included peer reviewers that provided sound
guidance on the project design and there was a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) during project
preparation. Project preparation was collaborative and a deliberative process. This was important because
lower secondary education services had been partially decentralized to the local level where management
capacity was limited. The preparation period also allowed for: (i) the development of the project with the
MoES, (ii) the preparation and review of MoES studies on post primary education issues; (iii) review and
preparation of the lower secondary sub-sector development plan; (iv) the preparation, review and approval,
as well as Government issuance of a Letter of Sector Policy; (v) the development of a jointly agreed
results framework and a set of PDO and intermediate indicators 11 ;(vi) a dialog with other donors on
project design. Moreover, the Government’s previous experience with the IDA-financed Primary
Education Project was instructive and useful in designing appropriate project activities. This was
especially important since the UPPET project was the first IDA-supported education project in Uganda
that was designed to mainstream project implementation within MoES and placed a strong emphasis on
school-based procurement, especially of civil works. This emphasis on school-based procurement
necessitated the development of training material to facilitate the delivery of a customized training
package to school management teams. However, at the time of appraisal the training materials had not yet
been fully or adequately drafted, the school infrastructure design documentation arising from the transition
to lower cost designs for efficiency had not been properly reviewed, and procurement documentation for
school use in the bidding process for respective schools had not been prepared which had a negative
impact on project readiness.

32.     There was a fundamental assumption made by both the Government and the Bank design teams.
Both teams assumed that the successful systems and modalities developed during the earlier Bank
supported Basic Education Project would be useful models for the post-secondary project but this
assumption did not hold. The following are three examples of this issue: (i) The primary education project
had depended on centralized control of civil works construction and the post primary project was built
around a school based management model which put substantial responsibility at the school level for
contracting school construction, a desirable goal but one for which the project design did not provide
ample lead time for school and community level systems to develop the requisite capacity before project
implementation – all training including materials development and contracting of training firms was done
during project implementation; (ii) The review of a primary education curriculum was a relatively
straightforward task whereas the review of the post primary curriculum was a complicated effort and a
five year endeavor, a period of time that was not envisioned and planned for at the time of project design;
and (iii) whereas the primary education sub sector is highly decentralized, the post primary subsector is
more centralized and therefore the management of the post primary system interfaced with school level
devolution of power is considerably different from the primary system. These issues were not fully taken
into consideration in the design of the UPPET project.



11
  Of the four missions that assisted Government in the design of the project, the last two, the Technical Mission of July/August
2008 and the Appraisal Mission of January 2009 both had M&E specialists as team members. Neither the Identification
Mission of January 2008 nor the Pre-Appraisal Mission of March/April 2008 had M&E specialists as team members.

                                                               8
33.     Project Design. The project was designed as an APL Phase I to support key policy reforms,
specifically: (i) a sustainable financial framework that included measures to control costs and improve
resource use; (ii) investments to promote access to lower secondary education for all eligible students, and
improved quality of instruction; and (iii) measures aimed at creating an enabling policy and learning
environment for better and more effective education service provision. The UPPET project design fit
squarely into the government’s planning for the sector specifically the MoES' ESSP, as well as the UJAS,
and the Bank’s third PEAP. The ESSP, UJAS and the PEAP shared the common objectives of providing
equitable access, quality and relevance of post-primary education in Uganda. The project design took into
consideration comments from peer reviewers during the concept and appraisal review meetings as well as
the July 2008 QER. In addition, the design team drew lessons from previous Bank-supported projects in
Uganda, especially the completed Universal Basic Education (UBE) project, which informed the
development of the project.

34.     At the time of project design, and as highlighted earlier in this document, an APL was the
appropriate lending instrument given the Government’s long-term commitment to a program of education
reforms. The overall project design focused on access, quality and improved policy environment, and
supported the government’s efforts to decentralize services to the local communities. The design also
included the mainstreaming of project management within the different MoES departments both at the
central, and school levels. The project management structure included: (i) MoES under the leadership of
the Minister of Education and Sports – decision making; (ii) the Education Sector Consultative Committee
(ESCC) – advisory body; (iii) the UPPET Steering Committee – overall strategic guidance; (iv) at the
school level, individual head-teachers, bursars, Boards of Governors – school level decision making and
implementation. Coordination of the various project management and advisory groups, as well as Ministry
operational units was with the Ministry’s Department of Education Planning (EPPAD) & Policy Analysis,
which provided overall project coordination. This was an appropriate structure for project management
particularly given the decentralized implementation structure.

35.     The project PDO was appropriate for the project design. There were PDO level indicators with
baselines for monitoring project progress although these were further revised at restructuring and some
dropped as they were considered inappropriate. The project design piloted a package of interventions
(school-based procurement of civil works, science kits and consumables and furniture) at the school level
in an effort to empower school management teams and improve the quality of education service delivery
as well as foster ownership of the project. This package was a new approach in Uganda, which proved to
be highly appropriate and is now being used for most secondary education Government programs in
Uganda. The design also included an impact evaluation of this package of interventions that was to be
used by MoES and donors. The preparation team identified project risks and proposed adequate mitigation
measures.

36.     The major portion of the IDA credit – 60 percent - for this project was focused on Component 1,
civil works to increase access to lower secondary education. The procurement of these civil works was
envisioned to take place in three phases. The phasing of the construction of facilities that was originally
proposed for the 763 identified schools was based on coverage in three phases spread over three financial
years. Once implementation was underway, there was an agreed revised phasing plan which reduced the
number of beneficiary schools from 763 to 759. Due to the delays in the completion of Phase 1 and Phase
2 schools and the very slow progress of civil works completion, and in spite of several remedial measures,
it was agreed that the Phase 3 planed beneficiary schools would not be covered. The revised number of
beneficiary schools therefore, dropped by the 100 beneficiary schools in Phase 3, a process which thus
produced a final project target of 659 beneficiary schools.


                                                     9
37.    While there were positive design features to the project, there were also design issues that had a
substantial impact on project monitoring and implementation. Three of the four original PDO indicators
were not appropriate to measure project progress and were dropped as indicated above. The design called
for the establishment of baselines for the intermediate indicators during the first year of project
implementation which was completed. However, the EMIS data gathering system that generated baselines
and informed the setting of targets was changed in 2011 in a bid to improve data quality thereby creating
problems for measuring project progress and impact. The introduction of the school-based procurement
was an appropriate design to support the government decentralization but the nationwide approach was
too ambitious for a three year project implementation period. This was particularly true considering this
was a new approach and local capacity was very limited.

38.     As indicated, the project was restructured in August 2013. The restructuring attempted to correct
some of the design issues by: (i) modifying PDO and intermediate indicators; (ii) adjusting civil works
targets and (iii) reallocating project resources in an attempt to ensure full disbursement by project closing.
While the restructuring focused on the needed modifications, the remaining one year of project
implementation was insufficient time to have the intended impact on project outcomes.

2.2 Implementation

39.      Project implementation began prior to effectiveness in November 2009 with an August 2009
review of a three year procurement plan for implementation of the US$92 million civil works component.
When the project became effective, the December 2009 ISR already noted that that some key procurement
activities were already behind schedule which would delay classroom construction and delivery of
instructional materials. The Bank team also noted that there were several financial management issues that
needed attention before full scale implementation could take place. In the December 2009 ISR, it was also
evident that the PDO and intermediate indicators were either lacking the required progress data or, in the
case of the intermediate indicators, lacking baseline data. Moreover, eleven months into project
implementation, MoES indicated that they would like the Bank to seek additional direct financial support
for the development of the Business, Technical and Vocational Education (BTVET) background studies to
inform the development of the BTVET strategic plan. These were funded in partnership with the Belgian
Development Cooperation agency, through parallel financing. While the studies were not financed by the
project, they were successfully completed and is being used as background for the development of a new
project.

40.     In October 2010, reporting on project indicators was still problematic with data available only for
some of the indicators. There were delays in training school procurement committees which meant that
MoES could not distribute bidding documents until October 2010. It was also during this time that the
Bank sent a letter of intent to declare mis-procurement of textbooks because MoES was in violation of
Bank guidelines and the No Objection Certificate (NOC) issued by the Bank. This was ultimately resolved
when MoES agreed to proceed as indicated in the NOC. To try and resolve some of these implementation
issues, the task team recommended an increase in the PDU and financial management staff, which was
accepted and acted upon. The MoES staffed the PDU as per the institutional establishment, while a
financial management specialist was hired by the Project, fully committed to the project.

41.     The June 28, 2012 mid-term review (MTR) found that civil works contracts remained unexecuted,
textbooks and science kits, though contracted, had not been delivered to schools. The MTR team observed
that the project was very procurement heavy for which the government was not fully prepared resulting in
both avoidable as well as unavoidable delays in procurement that slowed implementation. Actual phased
contracting for civil works could only start in April, 2011, some 17 months after project effectiveness.
                                                     10
These major delays in procurement occurred due to lack of overall project readiness, lack of familiarity
with Bank procedures, rapid domestic inflation in 2011 which necessitated changes in the bidding
documents, and constrained capacity of the MoES procurement unit. With disbursements at 52 percent, it
was determined that achievement of the PDO and overall project implementation was not possible within
three years and the Government requested a two year extension with a new closing date of July 31, 2014.
It was also at this point that Bank management asked the task team to review the original PDO and
intermediate indicators. In July 2012, the task team restructured the project but only requested a two year
extension. The restructuring did not modify the results framework or adjust activity targets because of
time constraints in making the request to the Bank for the extension.12

42.     By May 2013, project implementation showed no significant improvement in school construction
over the previous year with only 150 of the projected 759 beneficiary schools completed. Low cost
assessments at design, unprecedented high inflation during period of contract execution, inadequate
management capacity of the MoES, and contracting for civil woks being delegated to the school level
were all identified as the main challenges. Disbursements were at 57 percent. However, there were some
project achievements, especially directly related to Component Two – Quality Improvement: (i) the post-
primary curriculum reform process had completed with the finalization of an eight learning area
curriculum framework; (ii) more than two million textbooks had been delivered to schools participating in
the University Secondary Education (USE) program; (iii) project support for the Uganda National
Examination Board (UNEB) was proceeding with computer equipment procurement; (iv) the national
assessment system measuring progress in learning achievement at lower secondary had been established;
and (v) MoES expressed the need for the project to provide support towards strengthening the Education
Management Information System (EMIS) by addressing gaps in the USAID support to the sector. (See
Annex Two for additional details on curriculum development, assessment and teacher training.) The
Strategic Plan for BTVET supported by the project and the Belgian Government was submitted to the
MoES in August 2011 and approved by the Cabinet in December 2011. In addition, there was support by
the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to provide teacher training on how to better utilize the
science instructional materials including kits that had been provided by the project.

43.     In August 2013, project PDO and implementation ratings were moderately unsatisfactory and the
project was restructured for a second time. At this time the PDO was not changed although the PDO
indicators were modified to ensure consistency between those listed in the PAD and the Financing
Agreement. Disbursements were only 67 percent and procurement and financial management were rated
moderately unsatisfactory. After the restructuring, there was increased intensity on the part of the Bank
and MoES to improve project performance. At this time, the Bank undertook a “Mini-Assessment of
Project Implementation Progress – Mid-January 2014” 13 validated data sources and values for the
outcome and intermediate indicators for the period 2008-2014. The conclusion of the mini-assessment was
that the achievement of the PDO was unlikely to be achieved and therefore unsatisfactory due to
ambitious assumptions at design, data issues as well as lack of clarity on the measurement norms of some
indicators.

44.    There were 11 Bank review and implementation support missions from August 2009 through July
2014, complemented by a mini-assessment that was conducted in January 2014. The makeup of the Bank
teams was, mostly well balanced with financial management, procurement, construction, and monitoring


12
   See “Restructuring Paper on a Project Restructuring of Uganda Post-Primary Education and Training Project, July 18, 2012
“– para. 9
13
   Republic of Uganda – Uganda Post Primary Education and Training (UPPET): Adaptable Program Lending (APL1) Project
(P110803) – Mini-Assessment of Project Implementation Progress – Mid—January 2014)
                                                            11
and evaluation specialists as necessary. However, safeguard and social protection specialists were only
added during the last two years of project implementation. By January 2015, at the time of finalization of
this ICR, total disbursement as reflected in the Bank project portal is US$142,306,129.13 (equivalent
XDR 93.1 million), representing 94.04 percent of the credit. This leaves an undisbursed amount of
US$8,433,889.77 for cancellation by the Bank. Earlier, there was a proposed cancellation of
US$7,073,330.65 equivalent (approximately XDR 4,747,201) due to the reduced scope of civil works
coupled with XDR: US$ exchange rate gains that had been communicated to the Bank in July 2014, in
addition to any other amounts that could not be absorbed follow up to the Bank refusal to extend the
project for another one year. The final Bank audit was still ongoing at the time this ICR was submitted.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

45.     Design. The M&E design was twofold. The monitoring of the results framework and project
outputs was to be done by the MoES with support from the Coordination Unit. The EMIS was the data
source for all the PDO indicators progress monitoring. The EMIS was updated annually using two data
collection systems: the self-administered Annual School Census (ASC) for all schools in Uganda and the
Head Count (HC) exercise for only schools implementing USE reform program undertaken by the MoES.
As indicated earlier, the results framework was problematic with regard to attribution and data collection
which impacted the achievement of the PDO. The MoES’ EMIS was to provide data that was reported and
used to assess progress towards achieving the PDO.

46.     Civil works monitoring was to be done by the Construction Management Unit (CMU) with the
help of four MoES-contracted Technical Supervision Firms (TSFs) (one firm per region – central, eastern,
northern and western) that were entrusted with the civil works quality supervision function. The external
evaluation of the program to which the project contributed was to be completed before transition to the
second APL.

47.     Implementation and Utilization. The MoES/EMIS provided Bank missions with data and
information on progress toward achieving the PDO and the project’s overall implementation. This
information was consistently reported on by the Bank in aide-memoires and Implementation Status and
Results (ISRs) reports. However, the original results framework was based on inaccurate EMIS data and
unclear definitions of key indicators and resulted in faulty enrollment trend projections on critical PDO
indicators (i.e. GER enrollment data, transition rates, etc.)14. (See Annex 10 for a discussion of the data
problems faced by the project.) The mini-assessment of 201415 revealed that project targets were based on
inflated enrollment assumptions underpinned by ambitious efficiency enhancing targets. These could not
hold when the education sector changed the Education Management Information System (EMIS) reporting
norms in 2011, which subjected the project to two reporting regimes. Efforts to standardize the project to
one reporting norm were undertaken during the January 2014 mini-assessment. However, variations in
baseline values rendered use of other statistical tools inappropriate. Earlier the Bank expressed proactivity
to calibrate indicators and change targets through the August 2013 restructuring, but the MoES did not
declare the changes that had been effected in the EMIS data capture. An opportunity to resolve the issue
was thus lost.


14
   MoES does not use the UNESCO definition for in their computation of trend analysis of the transition rate to senior five (S5)
and equivalent levels of post lower secondary (S4), yet the PAD and the first restructuring paper drew from this. Thus the
EMIS figures do not relate with UNIESCO definitions. Without the harmonization of definitions it is not possible to provide
accurate project monitoring.
15
   Mini-Assessment of Project Implementation Progress – Mid-January 2014

                                                              12
48.      The MoES and the Bank missed the opportunity to modify the results framework and the PDO and
intermediate indicators at the time of the first restructuring in July 2012 and only made corrections to the
results framework during the second restructuring in August 2013, with one more year of implementation
until its new closing date of July 31, 2014. Low data validity compounded by ineffective coordination
with the EMIS systems management greatly contributed to the unsatisfactory PDO rating amidst high
completion levels of project activities. The data challenges faced could also be attributed to the nascence
of effective data and information management for the secondary subsector.

49.     As one of the milestones required for transition from Phase 1 to Phase 2 of the APL, there was to
be an external review of the UPPET program reforms carried out during the project period based on the
Letter of Sector Policy (LSP). Terms of Reference (TOR) were drafted by the MoES and agreed by the
Bank but the external review was never carried out on account of the following: (a) Government launched
another reform program in 2012 – the Universal Post Ordinary (upper secondary) Level in the same
subsector and operational in the same secondary schools; (b) It became apparent to the Government that
the APL lending instrument was no longer in use by the Bank and that any follow on activity after the
UPPET project would be a separate, standalone activity, this APL trigger was no longer operable. The
Bank had also directly led impact evaluations on two policy reforms including public-private partnership
and double shift instruction.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

50.    Procurement. Procurement was rated from moderately satisfactory to moderately unsatisfactory
by project closing. This rating is appropriate based on the unjustified and lengthy delays in procurement
processing experienced throughout the project implementation cycle. This greatly constrained timely
completion of activities.

51.     As indicated above, the MTR found that two and a half years after project effectiveness, civil
works contracts remained to be executed, textbooks and science kits though contracted had not been
delivered to school and observed that the project was very procurement heavy. The government had
limited project management capacity and was not fully prepared for the heavy procurement requirements
resulting in both avoidable as well as unavoidable procurement delays that slowed implementation. Actual
phased contracting for civil works only started in April, 2011, some 17 months after project effectiveness.
These major delays in procurement occurred due to lack of: (i) preparedness, (ii) familiarity with Bank
procedures, (iii) rapid domestic inflation in 2011 which necessitated changes in the bidding documents,
and (iv) constrained capacity of the MoES procurement unit. Unrealistic estimation of infrastructure costs
by both the Government and contractors impacted the slow progress of civil works and unrealistic pricing
of furniture within the contracts. The quality of the TSFs work which had been entrusted with the civil
works quality supervision was unsatisfactory. TSFs assignment necessitated time based contracts as
opposed to performance based which posed supervision challenges to the sector. Late reporting and weak
supervision from the center also compounded the challenges. Nevertheless, the quality of works for the
UPPET civil works was remarkably higher in comparison to local government supervised works. The
challenge was also overcome when the Project hired a team of four engineers including a deputy
coordinator with specific focus on civil works. This development of a hybrid model of a project
implementation unit (PIU-hybrid), a mainstreamed facility staffed by externally financed technical
specialists with decision making powers, was one of the innovations of the latter stages of this project.
The development of this hybrid unit is a prime example of the Bank team’s ultimately successful, if
belated, effort to overcome procurement challenges and deliver better results.


                                                    13
52.      Procurement plans were prepared and reviewed by the task team but it was only toward the final
phases of the project that procurement activity processing matched these procurement plans. By project
closing, procurement progress had improved with many contracts finalized and bid evaluations completed
in 4 weeks (rather than previously reported 10 weeks). This was due in large part to intensive management
engagement that enabled increased availability of technical staff to participate and increased attention by
the MoES PDU. This progress was especially noted during the last year of project implementation in the
area of review and approval of school construction contracts when the increase of professional technical
staff, four of which were paid for from Project funds, was added to the CMU.

53.     Bank supervision missions carried out ex-post reviews and also confirmed that the project was in
conformity with the projects and Bank’s procurement rules and guidelines. The initial textbook bidding
process was found by the Bank’s auditors to have been in potential violation of the Bank’s procurement
regulations. This potential violation resulted in a letter to the MoES cautioning of a possible mis-
procurement. The MoES responded to this Bank action by resolving the issue internally and ensuring that
the textbook procurement in question and all following textbook procurements were within the Bank’s
procurement guidelines.

54.     Financial Management. Financial management went from moderately unsatisfactory to
unsatisfactory by project closing mainly due to delays in liquidating outstanding advances, initial delays in
submitting unaudited interim financial reports (IFRs), record keeping challenges and delays in flow of
civil works funds to schools. Lack of a dedicated financial management officer at the start of the project
affected the financial transactions processes of the project.

55.     Key to the final ratings for financial management was a number of issues highlighted in the final
project ISRs. These were: (i) unaccounted for funds and financial accountability of schools. Two months
before project closing unaccounted for funds at school level was approximately US$19.0 million. These
unaccounted for funds were part of the approximately US$83.0 million which had been advanced to
schools to cover their school-based procurement plans; (ii) reconciled ineligible expenditures had been
reduced from approximately US$2.3 million to US$1.2 by project closing arising from close and constant
monitoring by the Bank task team and the MoES internal audit department; and (iii) delays in paying
contractors and suppliers as well as disbursements to schools.

56.     In the final stages of the project a new fund payment process was recommended by MoES
implementation team in collaboration with the task team and accepted by the MoES management with an
aim of reducing payment processing delays. This markedly reduced the time for claims evaluation and
approval enabling timely payments to suppliers and constructors. At the same time, the Government in
consultation with the Bank’s task team took active steps to ensure that the ineligible expenditures were
reduced. This included field and regional based deployment of the engineering team complemented by
output based performance monitoring that enabled closer school supervision and timely capture and
resolution emerging issues; engineers’ school based retirement of financial accountability based on civil
works certificates issued; and weekly civil works review meetings informed by updated school by school
accountability ledger . By June 2014, US$1.1 million was refunded to the Bank by the Government.

57.     Safeguards. Environmental safeguards are rated moderately satisfactory consistent with past
ISRs. The project was rated a category “B” and triggering both the: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01) and (ii) Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and therefore both an (i) Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a (ii) Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were prepared and
disclosed in Uganda. Project specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) were
undertaken for all the construction/civil works sub-components. Environmental approval was issued by
                                                     14
the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA). Additionally, 5,313 school level officials
for 759 schools were trained in environmental and social aspects of the project (e.g. use of environmental
and social screening processes, use of checklists, project impact and their mitigation measures.) All
schools, where construction or renovation took place, were provided with guidelines to cover
environmental and social safeguards. However, Bank supervision missions did not include environmental
or social specialists until well into the third year of implementation. At that time, the task team
recommended that engagement of district officials be improved on the social and environmental
management safeguards issues using already deployed staff at this level. The enhanced supervision by the
CMU, working with the local district officials, improved compliance of the Environmental Management
Plans for sub-projects under Component 1. During the final supervision and ICR data-gathering mission, it
was evident that not all the project-supported construction, especially in the multi-story classroom blocks,
had followed the recommendations in the Handbook for Earthquake Resistance Construction and Seismic
Safety published by the Ministry of Works. The number of schools in question, approximately 10 multi-
storey classroom buildings in the Western parts of Uganda, is relatively small compared to the 659
classroom buildings constructed or renovated with UPPET project funds. The seismic vulnerability issues
are particularly important for the schools in western districts which are considered as more vulnerable to
earthquakes. In 2007, the Bank preparation team, made the recommendation that these Government
guidelines be followed 16 by the MoES in reviewing and approving construction plans for project-
supported classroom block construction. However, by the end of the project it was evident that these
recommendations were not followed in all cases.

58.     The findings of the ICR team as outlined in the preceding paragraph were discussed with
Government and agreements were reached on next steps to resolve the seismic vulnerability issue. These
agreements can be summarized as: (i) Government agreed to an engineering structural audit financed by
the World Bank to assess the seismic vulnerability of the 10 multi-level buildings constructed with project
funds identified in the ICR Civil Works consultant’s report; (ii) the Bank team will prepare TOR in
consultation with Government for the structural audit expected to be undertaken between February and
May 2015; (iii) based on the results of the audit, and if found to be necessary, the consultant will advise
Government and the Bank on mitigation measures to ensure the compliance of school civil works designs
and construction practices to global earthquake standards; and (iv) agreement that future Bank-supported
education civil works activity follow the global standards and Bank procurement guidelines with respect
to earthquake vulnerability.

59.     The project design constituted key physical activities involving rehabilitation and expansion
(construction) of classrooms and ancillary facilities which triggered OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. All of these construction activities were expected to undergo screening and subprojects
which triggered acquisition of land for purposes of expanding infrastructure in overcrowded government
schools were to follow the procedures as laid out in the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). The
project did not undertake any land purchases. Land donations by School Boards of Governors occurred in
not more than 3 situations out of the entire 659 schools eventually covered by the project and were
documented in the reports of the Technical Supervision Firms (TSF’s) and validated by the MoES team.
Although no problems have been reported, it is evident that the MoES had not and continued to not report
on the RPF up through the closing of the project notwithstanding Bank task team highlighting this at the
time of the MTR. By the final two years of the project the MoES made commendable efforts in the area of


16
  UGANDA Universal Secondary Education (USE) – Universal Post Primary Education and Training (UPPET) ICR Mission
Draft School Construction Component Report by Serge Theunynck; August 2014
                                                       by

                                                       15
environmental and social assessment and supervision by the allocation of a focal point officer for the
project within the MoES/CMU.

60.     In the face of these several and critical problems, it is useful to point out that the UPPET project
supported the consolidation of the exiting USE lower secondary school network by expanding classroom
construction and the construction of a number of schools. The targeting of project resources in the civil
works program was well planned, balanced, and equitable and took into consideration rural/urban
disparities, classroom/non classroom balances as well as population distribution. It is important to point
out that:

      the UPPET project gave a priority to rural areas since both non-urban (rural and peri-urban areas)
       account for 90 percent of the school targeted by the MoES to receive UPPET funds for school
       construction;
      distribution of UPPET supported new classroom between the 3 types of schools (rural/per-
       urban/urban) is in line with the rural/urban population distribution; and
      The UPPET school construction program is massively concentrated on the construction of new
       classrooms. 65 percent of the investment funds were used for construction of new classrooms,
       while only 35 percent was spread between science-blocks, libraries, latrines, teacher's houses and
       administrative blocks.

Even with the reduction in the target numbers for schools which benefited from project resources, these
balance prevailed throughout the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

61.     The second and third phase of the original APL will not continue due to the fact that the Bank
lending instruments no longer include APLs. In April 2013 the Bank introduced the P4R instrument and
consolidated other lending instruments under Investment Project Financing (IPF). The next Bank-
supported education operations for Uganda will be a proposed second IDA-supported UPPET project and
a Skills Development Project. The latter currently being designed, uses analysis and recommendations
produced by the UPPET-supported national ten-year skills development strategy for the vocational
education sub-sector – “Skilling Uganda”. Regarding the post-completion operation of the UPPET project,
mainstreaming the project implementation into the Government service delivery system has created
capacity in regard to financial management, procurement and civil works management at both the national
and school levels. Operation and maintenance of school civil works will be done through the ongoing
school infrastructure program for secondary schools. Instructional materials usage will also be enhanced
through heightened support to schools through regular inspections. The review of the lower secondary
curriculum is still continuing with respect to assessment, instructional materials and teacher training,
consistent with the national roadmap. JICA and UNFPA are already engaged in this process in partnership
with Government. The EMIS system, improved and strengthened by both the Bank and USAID, will
continue to serve the needs of future education activities. It should be noted that under the UPPET, the
school-based procurement model has become mainstreamed in the secondary education service delivery
for the government. The recently signed agreement between Government and the World Bank for the
Teacher and School Effectiveness Project funded by the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) to
support the Government in improving primary teacher and school effectiveness incorporates the UPPET
textbook procurement and mainstreaming elements.




                                                    16
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

62.     Relevance of Objectives. The project development objectives were relevant to the country’s
sectoral needs when the project was developed and are rated high. The objectives fit squarely into the
government’s ESSP and the UJAS approved by the Bank Board in January 2006 which supported the third
PEAP and the achievement of the MDGs. The PEAP prioritized education as a necessary condition for
development. The UJAS identified Bank support of Pillar 5 of the PEAP (which includes education) as
important to fight impediments to growth and address equity concerns due to the low levels of education.
The outcomes of this support are reflected in the Bank Results matrix as increased post primary
enrollment rates. The project directly supported the PEAP and therefore the UJAS objectives. The project
objectives continue to fit into the FY2012-16 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda. .

63.     Relevance of Design. Project design is rated modest. Overall the project design was overly
ambitious for a three year implementation period. While the PDO objectives of increased access,
improved quality and an enhanced enabling environment for lower secondary education fit squarely into
the government’s education plans, the PDO indicators were problematic due to: (i) questions of
attribution, (ii) problematic EMIS data and (iii) questionable trend lines arising from changes in the EMIS
since 2011. The components fit these objectives. However, the activity targets were overly ambitious with
a heavy focus of procurement. Additionally, project readiness criteria were not fulfilled during
preparation. The mainstreaming of implementation activities was an appropriate design. However, the
design should have included more capacity development at all levels to accommodate the heavy
procurement requirements as well as the implementation requirements at the school level. The project
risks and mitigation measures did not sufficiently take into account the full scope of the localized
procurement process. Rather than one civil works program as originally conceived, the project ultimately
supported a vast number of individual school-based subprojects for which the MoES was unprepared to
adequately implement.

64.      Relevance of Implementation. The relevance of project implementation is low. This can be
attributed to a number of issues which appeared early in implementation and persisted until the final year
of the project: (i) the delayed start of major activities, especially school civil works; (ii) delayed
disbursement of funds to schools for timely contracting processes; (iii) delayed processing of contracts;
(iv) late financial reporting by schools; and (v) insufficient training of the MoES project staff leading to
weak oversight of the project implementation. These issues, while increasingly noted by the task team in
ISRs, were not fully acted upon until the final year of project implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

65.     The project development objective was: (i) to increase access to lower secondary education; (ii)
improve quality of lower secondary education; and (iii) enhance enabling environment for post primary
education and training. This section evaluates the outcomes against the PAD results framework that was
modified and formalized at the time of the second restructuring in August 2013. Moreover, the final
results are based on EMIS data and reflect the data adjustments that were made during the mini-
assessment as reported above. More details on project outputs can be found in Annex 2.

66.    Increased Access to Lower Secondary Education was to be measured by one PDO indicator: (i)
increased national gross enrollment rates (GER) disaggregated by gender. National gross enrollment rates
increased from 32.9 in 2008 to 37.0 percent in 2014, which missed the target by 4 percentage points. GER
                                                    17
for boys increased from 35.9 to 38 percent missing the target by 4 percentage points and GER for girls
increased 30.1 to 35 percent missing the target by 5 percentage points, respectively. The intermediate level
indicators that measured access were: (i) 573 of the 659 target expanded or rehabilitated schools were
handed over to the Schools Boards of Governors with certificates of completion which represented 86.9
percent of the targeted schools, while all 659 schools received water harvesting tanks as designed. Gender
and disabled friendly sanitation facilities were also provided. These schools were all constructed using
government lower-cost efficiency enhancement measures which has become the cornerstone of
governments school construction program. The Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) project of the
World Bank also provided and installed solar power equipment to about 300 of the UPPET project schools.

67.    Project targets for civil works and thereby the figures for completion were broken into several
categories: schools’ unfinished classrooms to be completed by the project; new classrooms; administrative
blocks; teachers’ houses; science blocks; libraries and 5-Stance latrines. The following data on outputs is
presented below:

Actual outputs of the School construction program financed by UPPET-APL1 at project’s end




68.      Improve the Quality of Lower Secondary Education was measured by the PDO indicator,
percentage of students who transited from lower secondary to first year of upper secondary (S5)
disaggregated by gender; as well as intermediate indicators: (i) student to textbook ratio; (ii) student to
classroom ratio; and (iii) student to teacher ratio. The percentage of students who transited from lower
secondary to first year of upper secondary (S5) at the national level dropped from 44.0 percent17 to 30
percent missing the target by 28 percentage points at the time of project closure. This is partly attributed to
differences in the measurement norms adopted by the sector and task team that resulted into inconsistent
transition rate values at baseline and at target. Besides, the impact of universalization of vocational
education at equivalent levels with S5 was not taken into consideration in estimating the target; as well as
the fact that possible declines in transition rates are expected with the expansion in lower secondary since
seats in upper secondary remain limited in the short term. These factors would have been considered in the
setting of the target for this indicator. This partly explains why the actual value did not only miss the
target but also fell below the baseline. The student to textbook target of 4:1 was overachieved with the
final reported average number of 2:1. The final student to classroom ratio was 54:1 less than the target of
72:1 and the student to teacher ratio reached 30:1 also missing the target of 33:118. It should be pointed
out that the indicators (i), (ii), and (iii) could more accurately be described as efficiency indicators also
going by their upward moving targets, rather than quality indicators, a discrepancy which further
illustrates the problems that the project had with designing and using indicators to assess progress towards
achievement of the project’s PDOs.



17
   The transition to S5 figures is problematic. The MoES reported the transition rate to S5 based on the customized sector
definition. While the task team, using the UNESCO definitions of transition rate to S5 also reported a different set of numbers.
It should be noted that after the second restructuring when the MoES and the Task Team agreed that a “transition to S5 only
using UNESCO definitions” was to be the norm, the MoES method was no longer used.
18
   Upward moving targets were set for the student to classroom ratio as well as the student to teacher ratio because of the desire
for greater efficiency in the use of the two inputs by the sector.
                                                               18
69.     Additional achievements related to improvement in the quality of lower secondary were: (i)
development of a revised lower secondary curriculum framework for eight (8) learning areas based on
curriculum framework with coded grade specific syllabi and complementary assessment framework; (ii)
supply of 3,898,902 books to all 1,559 schools that participated in the delivery of the Universal Secondary
Education program (public and private) targeting 7 core subjects and 63,328 teacher guides; (iii) supply of
5,221 science kits to 1,559 public and private schools; (iv) supply of 5,113 complementary chemical
reagents to all 1,559 schools (public and private, and the training of 1,475 laboratory technicians/assistants
(done in partnership with JICA); (v) completion of the infrastructure needs assessment and architectural
specifications for two National Teachers Colleges (NTC) – Kabale and Mubende NTCs; and (vi) delivery
of the Certificate in Management and Pedagogical Leadership course for 922 head teachers of public USE
schools. (See Annex 2 for additional details)

70.      Enhance the Enabling Environment for Post Primary Education and Training was not
specifically measured by either the PDO or the intermediate indicators. However, completed project
activities that supported this PDO were: (i) development, approval and launch of the national vocational
education strategy “Skilling Uganda” which is being used to develop a new IDA-supported skills project;
(ii) development and approval of the Secondary Teacher Development and Management System
(STDMS) which is being operationalized with support from development partners including Belgian
Technical Cooperation (BTC), UNESCO and China; (iii) establishment of a national assessment of
learning achievement at the Senior 2 level of lower secondary level; (iv) completion of a technical study
on flow of funds to schools; an impact evaluation of public-private school partnerships as well as on
double-shift instruction; (v) strengthened capacity of the Uganda National Examination Board (UNEB) to
handle expansion of assessment systems; (vi) institutionalization of an innovative ICT civil works
monitoring tool; and (vii) operationalization of the EMIS Geo Inference System (GIS) module and pilot
mapping of all education institutions in the two largest districts of Uganda (Kampala and Wakiso) in
partnership with USAID/Agile Learning.

3.3 Efficiency
Economic/Cost Efficiency
71.     An economic analysis of the project was undertaken to assess implementation effectiveness. By
the time the economic analysis for this ICR was compiled, of the US$136 million disbursed funds, special
commitments constituted about US$11 million and hence are excluded from the computations. The
benefit-cost ratio for the project at design was expected at 3.9 (which is lower than the actual – 5.0) when
the project yields the net present value of US$154.0 million (against actual of US$ 200.1) over the 9 year
period with an internal rate of return of 30 percent (as compared to 44 percent), thus suggesting the
viability and desirability of the project on economic basis. Key issues from external efficiency analysis
also reveal that: (i) private rate of return to various education levels in Uganda have increased overtime,
with lower secondary returns having increased from 15 percent to 25 percent over a five year period; (ii)
investments in lower secondary would enable students transit to the upper secondary level where private
and social rates of return are highest. The long term benefits from investments in secondary education
may generate a better qualified work force; educated cohorts entering tertiary education leading to
productivity efficiency through better qualified teaching and managerial staff; improved human
development coupled with social benefits like reduced fertility. There is substantial evidence that the
APL1 project outputs support government of Uganda strategy to reform the secondary education program,
and to achieve value for money in service delivery.

72.    The UPPET project ranks lower in average cost per m2 of classrooms among the main six
classroom construction projects currently financed in Uganda, with an averaged unit cost of 142US$/m 2.

                                                     19
The differences in unit costs may be due to the UPPET decentralized approach, and that also enhanced the
capacity of school management to undertake similar projects in future. The average unit cost for textbooks
was US$1.33 arising from the use of the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement method.
Besides, the project supported a number of policy reforms that should, over the next number of years,
enhance systemic efficiency. These reforms included: (i) efficiency in the use of the existing teacher
resource; (ii) the 42 subject curriculum menu for lower secondary was reduced to 18; (iii) procurement of
instructional materials was also changed from subject book-title to subject course-book modality; (iv)
double-shift instruction was introduced in over-enrolled public schools; (v) partnerships with low cost
private schools were instituted by Government to enable access to secondary education by learners in sub
counties that did not have public secondary schools consistent with the delivery policy; and (vi) efficiency
in secondary school infrastructure was enhanced through introduction of low designs of classrooms and
multi-purpose science rooms, and adoption of school based procurement modalities. (See Annex 3 for
details).

Implementation Efficiency

73.     Implementation efficiency was two-fold. First it was reflected in the disbursement and use of
project funds. The largest component of project funds was disbursed directly on to school accounts. Direct
routing safeguarded the resources from potential misuse by non-direct beneficiaries. The funds were
however released in two tranches to minimize transaction costs at the center. Coupled with the direct
routing model19 schools were exposed to large volumes of funds that resulted into absorption challenges
and delays in accountability amidst late school based procurement activities. This is partly explained by
delays in training school procurement committees as well as delays in distribution of bidding documents.
The project was also procurement heavy at the center because of government unreadiness and lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures resulting into slow implementation. The constrained management
capacity of the MoES procurement resulted into avoidable delays in approval of local contractors and
execution of international bids, all affecting the overall progress of project results.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.      The overall outcome rating of the project is moderately unsatisfactory. Although the relevance of
the project development objectives was high, the relevance of design was modest due to the overly
ambitious nature of the design for a three year implementation period and the problematic results
framework. These design challenges had a substantial impact on implementation which led to constant
implementation delays. Moreover, the delayed response of the Bank task team to address these design
challenges, through a project restructuring, further impacted project implementation and therefore the
relevance of implementation is low. Based on this and the detailed analysis above, overall relevance of the
project is rated modest. Efficacy is rated unsatisfactory. This is due to the fact that none of the targets
for the PDO indicators were achieved and only one of the three intermediate targets was achieved. Related
to the limited achievement of the project indicators, were all the EMIS data challenges previously detailed
in the report. Efficiency is rated modest based on the analysis provided in Annex 3.




19
     Initial advance of 50% and the remaining 50% upon accounting for the initial disbursement

                                                               20
Table 1: Project rating
  Original Project – 11/4/2009 – 8/09/13 – 73.18 percent disbursement-net project fund
  Project Relevance Achievement of PDO Efficiency                 Overall Rating
                      (Efficacy)
       Modest         Unsatisfactory              Modest          Moderately
                                                                  Unsatisfactory
  Project Restructuring – 08/10/2013-7/31/2014 –26.82 percent disbursement-net project
  funds
  Project Relevance Achievement of PDO Efficiency                 Overall Rating
                      (Efficacy)
       Modest         Unsatisfactory              Modest          Moderately
                                                                  Unsatisfactory
  Overall Project Ratings – 94.04 percent disbursement of total grant
  Project Relevance Achievement of PDO Efficiency                 Overall Rating
                      (Efficacy)
      Modest          Unsatisfactory              Modest          Moderately
                                                                  Unsatisfactory
  The net amount for the total project is US$142,306,129.13 million
  Overall rating = (3)(.7318)+(3)(.2682) = 3.00


75.     The upgrade of the project from Unsatisfactory in the final ISRs to Moderately Unsatisfactory in
this ICR is based on final data on activities which had not been completed the time of the submission of
the final ISRs and were only available during the preparation of the ICR. However, in spite of the fact that
the rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory can be seen as an indication of project failure, there were areas
of achievement, some substantial especially when one looks at the operational scope of the project:
enrollments were up and therefore access improved; efficiency improved in the areas of unit costs for
school construction; textbook distribution has substantially reduced the student to text book ratio, over
achieving initial targets; science kits and chemicals were distributed to schools and lab technicians trained;
school Boards of Governors have been trained and empowered; a new secondary school curriculum has
been designed; successful development of a policy framework for skills development activity. The list of
achievements is substantial and cannot be overlooked. The gains achieved by empowering managers and
school principals at the local level is evident in the efficiencies in school construction and the expansion
of access to children especially in areas poorly served by the center. The weaknesses of this project can
be overcome in future as the sector deepens appreciation of school based procurement and intensifies
school level supervision which is the anchor of successful adoption of this model. The guiding premise of
school based management, in its many forms, should not be abandoned; and was viewed as the strongest
area of this project by the client amidst all challenges faced.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

76.     The vast expansion of new classrooms throughout the country as part of the project, and the
elimination of school fees which is a part of the Universal Secondary Education (USE) policy framework
combined to increase the number of students in lower-secondary school from 316,652 in 2008 to
1,007,369 in May 2014, a substantial increase in the number of poor children who enrolled in lower
secondary school. The program to which the project supported has played a role in increasing girls’
transition rates to S1 from a baseline of 25.0 percent in 2008 to 69.9 percent in 2014. School civil works
designs were gender and disabled sensitive and included ready access to reliable water sources.


                                                                      21
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

77.      Institutional change and strengthening occurred at both the school and national levels. At the
school level head teachers and members of the procurement and contracts management committees drawn
from the teachers and school boards of governors constituencies were trained on financial, records
management and civil works monitoring aspects; head teachers received a regionally accredited certificate
course in education management and pedagogical leadership; school bursars positions were filled at the
school level to assist in the management of school-based procurement and other financial requirements;
and School Board of Governors were trained and became more active in the management of their schools.
At the national level, 20 of the MoES’ staff accessed international short term programs including
monitoring and evaluation, financial management, accounting, human resource management. Exposure
visits to countries that deliver the yet to be rolled out learning-area based curriculum were also made by
management teams including the MoES’ political leadership and technical champions. The EMIS system
was strengthened through a pilot program that is planned to be expanded throughout the country so that an
accurate stream of data and appropriate trends can be better analyzed and decisions made. The on-line
civil works monitoring tool is continuing to guide civil works monitoring under other projects. The
project-supported technical assistance interventions including the carrying out of policy studies and the
development of the TVET strategy as well as the developed but not yet implemented Secondary Teacher
Development and Management System (STDMS) all are likely to have a strengthening impact on the
educational sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

78.     The PAD identified two risks as being substantial, four as moderate (formerly referred to as
modest), and one low. The substantial ratings were primarily related to the Government’s ability to fulfill
its financial commitment to the implementation of the program and that quality might suffer during the
period of rapid enrollment increases. The mitigation measures incorporated in the project, especially the
Government’s Letter of Sector Policy ensuring adequate financing throughout the project and MoES’
focus on monitoring of learning achievement during the project enabled appreciation of the challenges to
quality education in Uganda. Learning achievement of students based on senior 2 assessments registered a
declining trend and project’s inputs were not sufficient to address this challenge. The four risks rated
moderate dealt with political pressure to increase access would overshadow the need to improve quality,
slow reform of teacher rationalization, limited access for poor pupils because of weak primary education,
and funds not reaching the intended schools. The mitigation measures incorporated to deal with these
issues included the monitoring of achievement quality indicators by the MoES, the creation and approval
of the Secondary Teacher Development and Management System (STDMS); agreement from the
government that MoES would protect resource allocation to primary education, especially in
disadvantaged area; and constant and careful monitoring of funds flow to schools. The risk that was rated
low was related to limited capacity within MoES and other implementation units including the school and
                                                    22
village level. The risk was correctly identified but the preparation team substantially underestimated the
capacity of all units to implement the project and did not identify appropriate mitigation measures. In
retrospect the risk should have been rated substantial or high.

79.      Going forward the risks remains substantial. Capacity development within the education sector at
all levels will need to be supported and improved. All future projects should ensure adequate capacity
development activities. There is also a substantial risk to the sustainability of project investments given
that approximately 10 percent of the civil work contracts were not completed prior to project closing and
148 schools did not receive school furniture. The government and MoES will be responsible for
completion of these activities and may lack adequate resources to complete the activities. To mitigate this
risk, the Bank task team has secured agreement from the MoES that they will complete outstanding
activities using their own funds which will need to be monitored to ensure completion of these activities.
By the time of finalizing this ICR, furniture to schools had been delivered and funds secured to complete
some schools. Additionally, the risk for financial management going forward will be substantial. The
increased decentralization of financial responsibility will require considerable capacity building and
continued supervision at the school level for quality results. MoES will need to continue to increase
capacity to disburse funds on time and to account for disbursed funds in a timely manner. There are the
additional issues of how and when the newly designed lower secondary curriculum will be implemented
and how it will tie in with the necessary teacher training programs which would have to accompany the
introduction of the new curriculum.

80.     Integration of sustainability plans for project operations beyond the project deserved more
attention including supervision. By the close of the project, the MoES still had challenges with providing
for the financial resources towards key interventions like the Curriculum Review and Assessment
(CURASSE), whose implementation continues into 2017 as per the MoES’ roadmap. Again resourcing
the civil works operation and maintenance plans for schools poses a major challenge to the sector, in light
of the expansion of school infrastructure that has been done by the Project in the 573 school sites. Equally
important is the provision of additional teachers to schools resulting from the need to decongest into
newly provided classrooms, use of which implies generation of new grade streams of students. So are the
instructional materials that brought to the fore the emergent need of providing librarians and laboratory
technicians.

81.     Some of these sustainability issues, especially those related to mainstreaming management of large
education project, are likely to be modulated somewhat in the forthcoming Bank-supported basic
education and vocations and training projects. The hybrid model of project management in which
implementing units staffed by technical specialists and financed by project funding, and having decision
making power, were developed during the final, and most successful portion of the UPPET project. This
hybrid project implementation unit (PIU-hybrid) model painstakingly developed during the final stages of
the UPPET project when project implementation had badly faltered, if fully institutionalized at the
Ministerial level, can hopefully ensure sustainability of the ongoing tasks necessary now that the
investments have been made in UPPET and be counted on to provide such services in future project.
Lessons have been learned about appropriate project-focused M&E structures and indicators and these
lessons will likely have impact on further Bank-supported education projects. Additionally, the challenges
confronted and solutions found by the Bank’s task team and the Government in the areas of procurement
of civil works in a decentralized environment and being fully cognizant of and taking into active
consideration the full range of safeguard issues and guidelines are learned experiences which should
inform the design of future Bank-supported projects and the Government’s responsibility of properly and
actively implementing such projects.


                                                    23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.     The project preparation team ensured that the project design was closely aligned with the
government’s ESSP and the UJAS approved by the Bank Board in January 2006 which supported the third
PEAP and the achievement of the MDGs. The design took into consideration the recommendations of the
QER, comments from peer reviewers and lessons learned from other Bank-supported projects. The design
also included two innovative concepts for education projects in Uganda: (i) project management was
mainstreamed and (ii) school-based procurement, especially for school construction. However, the project
was overly ambitious for a three year implementation period considering the heavy focus on procurement.
Moreover, and as mentioned previously, the results framework included indicators that were not
appropriate for measuring project impact or determining project attribution. Project readiness criteria were
not met which had a substantial impact on implementation throughout the project period. All in all, the
quality at entry for the UPPET project was moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

83.     As previously mentioned, there were 11 Bank review and implementation support missions which
included a mid-term review. The 10th mission was complemented by a mini-assessment that was
conducted in January 2014, which gave clarity on the data challenges that constrained accurate reporting
on project results. The project team systematically documented project progress in aide-memoires, back-
to-office reports and ISRs, all of which kept Bank management informed of progress and provided the
foundation for the ICR analysis. Team membership included procurement and financial management
specialists, but not environmental or social safeguards specialists’ whose participation was limited to one
mission until the last two years of the project. The Bank task team was also slow in recognizing that the
EMIS data reported by the MoES was problematic and therefore the targets set in the results framework
were unrealistic. The project was restructured twice, but the initial restructuring in July 2012 did not use
that opportunity to carefully research the data issues and modify the PDO and intermediate indicators. The
second restructuring in August 2013 modified the indicators but the project was already in the fourth year
of implementation and had a limited impact of ensuring achievement of the PDO. The Bank team
conducted a needed mini assessment EMIS data issues during the last six months of the project and the
period following the second restructuring and the mini-assessment saw an acceleration of project
implementation and a renewed focus by both the Bank task team and the government on trying to bring
the project to a successful conclusion. However, the lateness with which the task team supervision and
implementation support missions reacted to the overly ambitious project targets, the problem of program
rather than project indicators, and questionable EMIS data issues had a substantially negative impact on
the Bank’s role in project supervision. Therefore the rating for Bank’s supervision is moderately
unsatisfactory.

84.     As outlined earlier in the ICR, the Government requested in the February, 2014 and the Bank
turned down a request for a further one year extension of the project in order to provide more time to
complete the project activities, and so that the remaining credit could possibly be utilized. It is clear that
three years for the project was too short, and five years is merely average for Bank-supported education
project. Given the intensive and prolonged preparation stage, to cancel the undisbursed funds amounting
to US$8,433,889.77 by the close of the 5th year seems to be unfortunate. The Bank and Government
                                                     24
supervision teams had both been strengthened substantially and the intensity of the project implementation
had also improved markedly in the final year.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

85.  Based on the design and implementation analysis above, overall Bank performance is rated
moderately unsatisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

86.      At the time of preparation, the government was fully committed to the project. The government
provided a Letter of Uganda’s Education Sector Policy which spelled out the government’s continuing
financial support of the education sector in general and the UPPET project in particular. MoES agreed and
worked with the Bank to design a project which would be relevant to the needs of Uganda. As mentioned
above, MoES has embraced the school based procurement element of the UPPET design and
institutionalized it as the government’s way of delivering post primary education in the districts across
Uganda. Likewise, the design element which placed administrative and management responsibility in the
hands of the MoES mainstream units was supported by the government. While this responsibility was seen
as an important step forward in managing donor-supported projects, the government could have done a
better job in bringing government units together to coordinate their oversight and policy guidance to the
project implementation teams. Based on these aspects, the government’s performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

87.     The MoES project coordination unit was responsible for coordinating all aspects of
implementation. Additional supervisory units included the CMU with respect to civil works. However, in
facing implementation challenges, the CMU was not always able to work effectively with the other MoES
departments and the Bank to resolve them. The slow, 16 month delay in getting the important civil works
underway is a prime example of this problem. The substantial and numerous delays experienced by the
early stages of project implementation, as well as the overly ambitious project procurement schedules and
end of project targets, necessitated a two year extension of the project and a reduction in the number of
target schools from 759 to 659 at MTR. Training of the managers for the school-based procurement
element of the project was not well implemented by the MoES and was insufficient in light of the needs of
the project. Overall oversight of the project implementation was weak. The TSF units did not provide
adequate supervision of the civil works portion of the project. However, there were major issues in
implementation readiness. The MoES provision of inflated EMIS data which resulted in inaccurate
enrollment trend lines, faulty baselines and ultimately unachievable targets. The MoES was not able to
draft adequate procurement documentation and operable schedules, the development of component
specific annual work plans and budgets so that the project was not able to actually start implementing after
project effectiveness. Financial management staffing and necessary documentation was not ready by
effectiveness. At the time of project closing, there were issues of financial management which had to be
fully resolved, issues which include large sums still on the school accounts which had to be returned to the
center, potential ineligible expenses which have to be resolved, undisbursed and uncommitted IDA credit
resources which will have to be removed by IDA. In addition, there were completion of facilities that had
                                                    25
not been completed and the government will have to be responsible for paying those contracts. The
difficulties facing the CMU in reviewing and approving civil works contracts was eased somewhat by
augmenting the CMU with additional staff, financed by the project, but even with the two year extension
and the reduction of the target schools, this effort could not accelerate the implementation of the project
enough to achieve its results framework targets. Based on these aspects, the implementation agency
performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

88.    Based on the implementation analysis above, overall borrower performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

89.     Lesson 1. Project teams must understand and document indicator definitions as well as
constantly monitor the reliability of project data that depends on national data systems. The
development of monitorable indicators designed in the context of the specific project is important.
During the preparation of the UPPET project the definitions of the selected indicators were not adequately
documented. Moreover, the reliability of the data was not monitored until the last year of project
implementation. During the last year of the project, a mini assessment of EMIS data was completed which
helped generate entry points to capacity development efforts in this area, clarify indicator definition and
validate data for future projects. However, the exercise had limited impact on improving the outcomes of
the UPPET project.

90.     Lesson 2.     Project teams designing projects which focus on government programs as
opposed to individual projects must develop and use project specific indicators and data sources to
deal adequately with issues of attribution. The UPPET project, from the start, was focused on a
national UPPET program and used national data to review progress towards achieving the PDO indicators.
This proved to be largely misleading with respect to implementation progress assessment of the project.
Some national program data such as Gross Enrollment Ratios (GREs) can be used as reference points in
large projects such as UPPET but should not be relied upon to demonstrate progress toward achieving
project targets.

91.     Lesson 3.     Inclusion of a strong capacity development component is essential for projects
that mainstream implementation in a decentralized system. The UPPET project was the first IDA
education project to mainstream implementation in Uganda which was an appropriate design aspect.
However, the project design did not include adequate capacity development activities to assist the MoES
and other implementation units especially given the heavy focus on procurement at the local level. This
design flaw had a substantial and ongoing impact on project implementation.

92.     Lesson 4. Implementation readiness is essential to ensuring that project implementation
proceeds as designed. Experience from the UPPET indicates that half of the initial 3 years of the project
was spent on preparatory activities to support effective implementation of the project activities including
training materials development, procurement processing and agreeing the phased approach to
implementation of the major component for the project. Unrealistic estimation of infrastructure costs by
both the Government and contractors impacted the slow progress of civil works and unrealistic pricing of
furniture within the contracts. This affected the project timeline substantially


                                                    26
93.     Lesson 5.      Strategic use of technical assistance within the implementing agencies’ teams
significantly enhances capacity. The lower secondary curriculum review process led by the National
Curriculum Development Centre (NCDC) was supported by the Cambridge Education Group. The
Cambridge team was fully integrated in the day to day operations and management structure of the NCDC
for the entire period of their operations. This generated strong national ownership of the reform process
and enabled effective capacity development throughout the implementation cycle for this activity.
Similarly, the project recruited 4 engineers who were integrated in the Construction Management Unit
(CMU) and worked along with the 3 Government engineers to oversee school based civil works; under the
overall supervision of the head of the CMU. Their involvement, albeit late in the project implementation
cycle significantly improved implementation speed of this component.

94.     Lesson 6: Project implementation period chosen during design must be commensurate with
the projected project activities. Three years to commence, carry out and complete more than 750 widely
scattered construction contracts negotiated and managed at the school level, when initial documentation
was found to be inadequate and incomplete, was a problematic design element from the start of the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (submitted on December 22, 2014)

The Ministry of Education and Sports concurs with the Bank’s observations on project design,
implementation and performance rating. Challenges identified that impeded implementation at both
Ministry and school levels are appreciated and contextualised in the sector wide approach for education
service delivery. The lessons learned as enumerated by the Bank will be taken into consideration to inform
the design and implementation of other projects in the sector. Particular attention will be paid to the
validity of baseline data and ensuring realistic targets are set.

While the Ministry continues with the initiated sector reforms, interventions that support programmes will
have project specific baselines anchored on project specific results frameworks as gleaned from the ICR
report. Indicator definitions and measurement schemes need to be clarified at the onset of each
intervention with a well-articulated data management framework streamlined in the sector’s EMIS.
Implementation readiness ought to be achieved prior to any project effectiveness to enhance achievement
of the outlined development objectives. Close monitoring of the key performance indicators is paramount
to track progress towards achievement of the development objectives and need for timely project
restructuring where performance is below par.

The summary completion report as submitted by Government through the MoES prior to completion of
the ICR is provided in Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers
(Not Applicable)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)- Not Applicable




                                                    27
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Category in XDR
                                      Allocated          Disbursed         %
                                      amount             amount            disbursed
 Category Category Description        XDR                XDR
 1        Works                       60,000,000.00      53,077,715.46     88.5
 2        Goods & Equipment           24,400,000.00      21,987,654.54     90.1
          Consultant's services &
 3        Training                    11,600,000.00      10,591,749.25 91.3
 4        UNALLOCATED                 3,000,000.00       0.00          0.0
 DA-A     Designated Account          0.00               7,441,713.12
          Total                       99,000,000.00      93,098,832.37 94.0



(b) Project disbursement trends – original projection against the actual




(c) Financing
                                                        Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                         Type        of                               Percentage of
Source of Funds                                         Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                    0.00           0.00           0.00
 International Development Association
                                                           150.00      142,306,129.13   94.04%
(IDA)


                                                 28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      UPPET supported a subset of activities and expenditures in the implementation of the national
USE through targeting of activities and expenditures that are not covered in the ongoing programs and/or
areas with additional needs where the gaps are clearly identified to support the essential building blocks of
the reform agenda. The components and associated outcome indicators to support this aim are listed below.

2.      Component 1: Increase Access to Lower Secondary Education (US$92 million). Original
component activities: This component aimed at increasing access to lower secondary education through
supporting expansion of school infrastructure, including the construction of classrooms, libraries, teacher
housing, multipurpose science rooms and related water and sanitation facilities. The component financed
technical assistance, civil works and school furniture. A “lower-cost” construction approach was used. It
was planned to take place primarily at existing school sites using a selection process agreed with
government. Standard Ministry construction designs were adopted, inclusive of access ramps to meet the
needs of children with disabilities. Classroom space was to be maximized thorough the use of double
shifting, where appropriate.

3.     The following indicators were used to measure progress: (i) complete permanent incomplete
classrooms in Government secondary schools; (ii) construction of additional facilities (classrooms, water
and sanitation facilities, libraries, multi-purpose science rooms) where required.

4.      At project completion the following are the Component 1 project outputs:
S/N   Planned                  Results & Outputs                 Completion Status          Pending Completion &
      Intervention                                                                          Timeline Remarks
1.1   Construct additional      Overall target USE Schools       573 (87%) schools are  69 school started but
      school      facilities     at    time     of    project      completed (i.e.167 (77%)   incomplete
      where required             inception- 759                    Phase I schools and 405  17 schools not started
                                Target USE Schools after          (92%) Phase II schools)
                                 project restructuring– 659
                                Incomplete Classrooms –
                                 610                              81%       (497)    incomplete
                                New Classrooms – 3,559             classrooms are completed.
                                                                  3,198 (90%) new classrooms
                                                                   are completed.
                                                                  35 (85%) administration
                                                                   blocks completed.
                                Administration Blocks – 41       290 (84%) multi- purpose
                                Multi-Purpose      Science        science           laboratories
                                 Units – 344                       completed.
                                                                  57 (84%) teachers’ houses
                                Teachers Houses – 68              completed.
                                                                  122        (95%)      libraries
                                Libraries – 128                   completed.
                                5-Stance     VIP    Latrine      1,265 (89%) toilet blocks
                                 Blocks – 1,429                    (6,065 stances) completed.

1.2   Supply of water           768 rain water tanks (each       633 (82 %) tanks have been         135    tanks    pending
      tanks to USE schools       10,000 litre capacity)            supplied and 542 installed.         completion of roofs
                                 supplied to 658 schools.                                              construction   at   the
                                                                                                       remaining 116 schools.
1.3   Supply of assorted        26,716 units of furniture        No furniture delivered yet.        Advance payment made
      furniture for Phase I      supplied to 122 schools.                                              and deliveries expected
      schools                                                                                          by end of October 2014.
                                                                29
5.      Component 2: Improve the Quality of Lower Secondary Education (US$48 million) Original
component activities: This component was designed to improve the quality of lower secondary education
through supporting: (i) curriculum, examination and assessment reform for lower secondary education,
including associated teacher education: (ii) the improvement of quality of lower secondary education,
including pre-service teacher training, and expanding the capacity of at least one National Teacher’s
College (NTC) to augment the supply of teachers, particularly in Mathematics and Science; (iii) the
provision of in-service training for teachers, head teachers and schools’ Board of Governors, and relevant
training for other education managers, to improve school management, accountability and pedagogical
leadership; (iv) the improvement of lower secondary schools curriculum, examinations and assessment,
including: (a) developing a new curriculum for lower secondary education; and (b) assessing and
monitoring educational progress, and designing instructional materials for the new curriculum; and (v)
supporting the improvement of classroom teaching, through the acquisition of goods, including textbooks,
science equipment and other instructional materials. Under this component, the project was to finance
goods, civil works for at least one NTC, training and technical assistance.

6.      The following indicators were used to measure progress: (i) provision of a curriculum framework
for lower secondary school students that focuses on competencies for higher education, the world of work
and life-long skills; (ii) design S1 instructional materials for the new curriculum; (iii) supply initial stock
of textbooks for lower secondary schools for both Government and privates schools; (iv) the supply of
science kits/equipment and reagents for both Government and private USE schools; (v) the development
of a strategic plan for Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS) for secondary schools to
provide in-service teacher training and support; (vi) the institutionalization of leadership training and
mentoring courses for all head teachers, deputies and teachers; and (vii) rehabilitate existing facilities in
NTCs.

7.      At project completion the following are the Component 2 project outputs:
S/N   Planned          Results & Outputs                           Completion Status            Pending Completion &
      Intervention                                                                              Timeline
                                                                                                Remarks
2.1   Lower              Phase I:                                   Phase I: started on         New curriculum will be
      secondary          Capacity Building:                          04-Nov-2011.                 rolled out in 2017. More
      curriculum,       NCDC curriculum specialists trained         Completed in Oct-            support    still  needed
      assessment and     on developing exemplar extracts,            2013. All activities         including TA to continue
      examination        specifications for materials etc.           concluded           and      this process consistent
      reform                                                         curriculum                   with the road map.
      (CURASSE)          Advocacy for Reform:                        framework          with      Development partners that
                        In the North and West Nile region,          grade specific syllabi       are continuing to work
                         518 students and 15 lecturers of NTC        in place                     with NCDC include JICA
                         Unyama, 22 lecturers and 519                .                            & UNFPA.
                         students of NTC Muni and 110               Phase II: started on
                         lecturers and students of Gulu                23-Apr-2014
                         University were sensitized on the             funding 53% of the
                         reform.                                       curriculum roadmap
                        In the eastern region, 20 lecturers and       activities.    These
                         390 students of NTC Kaliro, 15                were        completed
                         lecturers and students of Busoga              100% with support
                         University, 265 lecturers and students        from        Cambridge
                         of Islamic University Mbale and 45            Education.           .
                         lecturers and students of Busitema            Progress: 100%
                         University were also sensitized.           Exposure visits by
                        In the central region, 162 teachers in        MoES management

                                                          30
S/N   Planned        Results & Outputs                          Completion Status          Pending Completion   &
      Intervention                                                                         Timeline
                                                                                           Remarks
                       Luwero district, 30 lecturers of            and         technical
                       Kyambogo University, 171 students           champions          to
                       and lecturers from NTC Mubende,             Singapore-Ghana
                       118 lecturers and students of Muteesa       and      Botswana-
                       Royal University were sensitized.           Turkey             to
                      In the western region 115 lecturers         benchmark reforms
                       and students of Mountains of the            undertaken.
                       Moon University, 34 lecturers of
                       Mbarara University of Science of
                       Technology, 166 lecturers and
                       students of Bishop Stuart University,
                       141 lecturers and students of Kabale
                       University and 620 lecturers and
                       Students of NTC Kabale were
                       sensitized.
                      5 FM Talk shows held on MEGA FM
                       station in Gulu, Arua one FM in
                       Arua, Open Gate FM in Mbale, Voice
                       of Tooro FM in Fort Portal and
                       Vision Radio in Mbarara and were
                       able to reach a vast number of
                       listeners.

                       Development of Syllabuses:
                      Syllabi for 8 learning areas (Science,
                       Mathematics, SST, Creative Arts,
                       Religious Education, Technology &
                       Entrepreneurship, Languages and
                       Life Education) were developed and
                       approved by the Curriculum Task
                       Force.
                      Programme planner, scope and
                       sequences developed for each
                       syllabus.

                       Development of Exemplar Extracts:
                      Curriculum specialist trained by
                       learning materials consultant to
                       develop specifications for extracts.
                      Extracts developed and trialled in 25
                       schools.

                       Integrating Assessment Reform with
                       Curriculum Reform:
                      Assessment framework has been
                       produced and approved.
                      It involved some policy changes to
                       incorporate ways in which the
                       learning areas will be assessed with
                       the focus on Continuous Assessment
                       and how the certification will capture
                       the achievement of the generic skills
                       and values.

                        Retooling of Teachers:

                                                        31
S/N   Planned          Results & Outputs                          Completion Status     Pending Completion     &
      Intervention                                                                      Timeline
                                                                                        Remarks
                        NCDC visited different universities
                         and teacher training institutions and
                         sensitized them on the new
                         curriculum with regard to content,
                         methods and assessment.
                        Discussions on specifications for
                         extracts to guide publishers were
                         concluded between NCDC and
                         consultant.

                         Developing Teaching and Learning
                         Materials:
                        Lead time for the procurement of the
                         textbooks stands at 699 days.
                        Indicative budget of buying the
                         textbooks     stands      at  UGX
                         11,887,305,077 per year.

                         Evaluation of the Curriculum in
                         Schools:
                        Plan prepared by DES on how
                         inspectors will be supported to ensure
                         effective implementation of the
                         curriculum.

                          Phase II:

                        Set of specifications/criteria for
                         textbook development has been made
                         to inform publishers the kind of
                         textbooks required.
                        Manual for Teacher Initial Exposure
                         has been made to pave way for
                         making a shift to activity centred
                         learning and integrating everyday
                         life.
                        Training on item development using
                         criterion referenced approach by the
                         Australian Council for Examination
                         Research (ACER) and a sample
                         examination paper for each learning
                         area has been completed.
                        Costed programme for Teacher
                         Support with a monitoring framework
                         has been made; aimed at embedding a
                         small face to face and school based
                         pedagogy improvement plan. It will
                         target the Head teacher, Deputy and
                         Director of Studies (DOS).
                        Curriculum      Awareness     raising
                         materials to brand and create
                         ownership of the new curriculum has
                         been made.
2.2   Conduct           Inception Report presented and            Progress:     100%  Ready for procurement of
      infrastructure     approved on 14-Feb-2013.                   completed.           contractor(s)         to

                                                          32
S/N   Planned             Results & Outputs                            Completion Status        Pending Completion &
      Intervention                                                                              Timeline
                                                                                                Remarks
      needs                Field Investigations and Interviews                                   rehabilitate and expand
      assessment for        were carried out at the Colleges.                                     the NTCs to enhance
      two       NTCs       Topo-surveys for both Colleges are                                    teacher training learning
      (Kabale    and        complete and Topographic Maps are                                     environments.
      Mubende)              ready.
                           Stakeholders met in Kabale and
                            Mubende        NTCs.      Development
                            partners for the Ministry of Education
                            and Sports, as well as other Key
                            Stakeholders, including National
                            Council for Higher Education were
                            consulted.
                           Data analysis undertaken and design
                            options considered.
                           Needs Assessment Report produced
                            and approved on 18-Jul-2013. The
                            Report recommends (i) review of the
                            current NTCs Curriculum; (ii)
                            rehabilitation of dilapidated structure,
                            completion of stalled works and
                            construction of new infrastructure;
                            (iii) provision of instructional
                            materials, laboratory and workshop
                            equipment        and     tools;     (iv)
                            improvement of the water supply and
                            sanitation systems, electrical and ICT
                            installations; (v) provision of sports
                            equipment; (vi) improvement in
                            transportation.
                           Detailed Designs prepared and
                            approved.
                           Tender Documents prepared and
                            approved.
2.3   Head      teacher    A total of 922 Head teachers were             Progress: 100%.
      training       in     trained in three phases.
      management and       Phase I: face to face 3-weeeks
      pedagogical           training was conducted from 28th
      leadership            April – 17th May 2014.
                           Phase II: workshops were held on
                            6th, 7th, 20th, 21st June 2014; and
                            04th, 05th July 2014.
                           Phase III: – face to face 3-weeeks
                            training conducted from 07th – 25th
                            July 2014.
2.4   Textbooks             1st Phase                                   Phase     I:   100%     3rd Phase
      provision                                                          completed. Deliveries
                           2,000,723 course books worth                 completed in 2012.     Procurement              of
                            US$ 7,512,172 were supplied to              Phase    II:   100%     supplier(s) of 119,133
                            1,559 USE schools covering subjects          completed. Deliveries   textbooks     and    3,989
                            of English Language, Chemistry,              for   Physics    and    teachers’    guides     for
                            History of West Africa, History of           Biology completed in    Geography of Rhinelands,
                            East Africa, History of South Africa,        March 2014 while for    and 237,579 textbooks
                            Geography of East Africa, and Map            Mathematics             and     3,989     teachers’
                            Reading         &       Photographic         completed in April      guides for Geography of
                            Interpretation.                              2014.                   Rest of Africa for 1,642

                                                              33
S/N   Planned              Results & Outputs                            Completion Status           Pending Completion &
      Intervention                                                                                  Timeline
                                                                                                    Remarks
                            Students textbook ratio has dropped                                      USE schools and 4 NTCs
                             from the 2009 baseline of 11:1 to 2:1                                    cancelled due to late
                             in 2013. However, due to increasing                                      procurement processing.
                             enrolment against static number of
                             textbooks in these subject areas, the
                             ratio is anticipated to rise to 4:1 in
                             2014.

                               2nd Phase

                            1,898,308 text books and 63,328
                             teachers’ guides for Mathematics,
                             Physics and Biology were provided to
                             1,642 USE schools and 4 National
                             Teachers’ Colleges (NTCs).
                            Students’     textbook     ratio    for
                             mathematics is 1:1 and for physics
                             and biology is 2:1.
                            1 copy of teachers guide provided per
                             stream of 60 students for each subject
                             of mathematics, physics and biology.
2.5   Supply       of       6,352 metallic lockable bookshelves         Lots 2,3,4 (eastern,  Lot 1: Delivery of this lot
      lockable               are to be delivered to 794 USE               northern and western)    (central     region    178
      metallic               schools delivered in 4 lots based on         were shipped by          schools was cancelled
      bookshelves to         the regions (central, eastern, northern      project close and at     after supplier expressed
      selected   USE         and western).                                the time of writing      inability to deliver as per
      schools                                                             this ICR, delivery in    the contract.
                                                                          616 schools that 
                                                                          comprise these lots is
                                                                          near conclusion.
2.6   Science                   Science Kits                                Science Kits         
      equipment      and
      reagents                 Phase I: 4,791 kits were supplied to       Phase I: 100%
                                1,253 USE schools (Government               completed.
                                and Private) except for districts of       Phase II: 100% =
                                Ntungamo, Kanungu, Kibaale and              Deliveries of 424
                                Kasese.                                     extra science kits to
                               Each kit contains 116 different items       109 schools in the
                                as detailed in CR.                          districts          of
                               1 kit was provided for every 240            Ntungamo,
                                students (each stream of 60 students        Kanungu, Kibaale
                                per grade: S1 – S4).                        and Kasese that
                                                                            missed in the first
                                                                            procurement and 6
                                                                            kits to 3 NTCs
                                                                            concluded by July
                                                                            31, 2014.
                                Reagents                                    Reagents                   Reductions in contract
                                                                                                        sum made arising from
                               5,113 chemical kits were supplied to       100%       deliveries       contractor failure to
                                1,362 USE schools (Government               made.                       comply with the bottle
                                and Private).                                                           specifications for the
                                                                                                        reagents     in   some
                                                                                                        instances.


                                                               34
S/N    Planned            Results & Outputs                          Completion Status   Pending Completion   &
       Intervention                                                                      Timeline
                                                                                         Remarks
2.7    Science teachers      1,475 laboratory technicians /          100% Completed.
       and laboratory         assistants in government and private
       technicians            schools from Central, Eastern,
       training20             Northern and Western Uganda were
                              trained     in    the    management,
                              maintenance and utilisation of
                              science and chemical kits in 2013
                              and 2014.
                             Science teachers under SESEMAT
                              Programme had already undergone
                              In-Service Training in effective
                              utilisation of the instructional
                              materials at their disposal.
                             Subsequently, this training was
                              provided to ensure that laboratory
                              technicians /assistants are able to
                              manage a lab; identify the common
                              apparatus in the lab and how they
                              are used; avoid hazards or manage
                              them in case they occurred; prepare
                              common reagents; and appreciate
                              their roles and responsibilities.



8.      Component 3: Enhance the Enabling Environment for Post Primary Education and Training
(US$10 million) Original component activities: This component was designed to enhance the enabling
environment for post primary education and training through: (i) developing and implementing an
advocacy and communications strategy for post primary education and training reform: (ii) supporting
training of targeted MoES staff to strengthen the capacity for management and operations; (iii)
strengthening the capacity of MoES for financial management and audit; (iv) strengthening the capacity of
MoES for national assessment and examination; (v) carrying out studies including, inter alia, preparatory
studies for skills development, support to private schools, double shifting and effectiveness of school
based procurement; (vi) developing a strategy for the reorientation and expansion of TVET, and upper
secondary education; and (vii) supporting an external review of the Program in order to guide follow-on
projects. Under this component, the project would finance equipment, training, studies and technical
assistance.

9.     The following indicators were used to measure progress: (i) provide equipment printing as well as
computers for UNEB; (ii) strengthen EMIS to capture all data or all schools (private, Government and
teacher data); (iii) track the flow and utilization of funds disbursed for various activities; (iv) assess the
impact of Government support to private schools; (v) review 1st phase of double shift instruction; (vi)
costed and budgeted plan for expansion of upper secondary; and (vii) review reforms in secondary to
guide implementation of Phase II of the APL.

10.      At project completion the following are the Component 3 project outputs:



20   Financed under GOU budget

                                                            35
S/N   Planned            Results & Outputs                                         Completion Status    Pending Completion
      Intervention                                                                                      & Timeline Remarks
3.1   Strengthening          Ministry Level:
      management
      capacity      of      The Communication and Advocacy Strategy                100% Completed.
      MoES         and       was approved by the Education Sector
      secondary              Consultative Committee and the Top
      schools through        Management of the Ministry.
      training              Capacity of CMU was strengthened through
                             recruitment of additional 4 engineers and supply
                             and delivery of computers, laptops, cameras,
                             and vehicles.
                            Twenty ministry officials have been sponsored
                             by the Project to enhance their skills in different
                             areas of speciality.
                            GPS system for monitoring of civil works was
                             set up in August 2013. 45 smart phones were
                             procured and issued to users. The website was
                             launched and field supervision and monitoring
                             reports are being published online. The reports
                             can            be            viewed              at
                             http://ugandaschools.net/reports
                             School Level:

                            5,313 school level officials (7 per school),             100% completed
                             drawn from BoGs, Procurement Units and
                             CMCs of 759 schools were trained. Training
                             covered four operational areas of public
                             financial management, public procurement
                             management, management of civil works
                             contracts and safe environmental practices.
                            Each participant was issued a complete set of
                             the following implementation handbooks:
                             General Implementation Guidelines on UPPET
                             (June 2010); SFG-S General Implementation
                             Guidelines (January 2010); Procurement &
                             Disposal Guidelines for Schools in Uganda
                             (2003); Environmental & Social Management
                             Framework (January 2010); Training Module
                             and Guidelines for Secondary Schools in
                             Uganda (January 2010); Training Module on
                             Financial Management and Guidelines for
                             Secondary Schools in Uganda (January 2010);
                             Plan for Construction of Facilities (January
                             2010); Technical Handbook for Secondary
                             School Facilities (May 2010); Resettlement
                             Policy Framework (July 2007); and Revised
                             Implementation Manual (2012);
                            Four consultancy firms were hired in March
                             2011 to provide technical supervision to School
                             Construction       Management       Committees
                             (SCMCs). Their services ended in March 2014.
                            School-specific site layout plans were drawn by
                             four hired architects for all 759 beneficiary
                             schools. The plans provide a basis for an
                             organized location of earmarked facilities and
                             for future developments. All site layout plans
                             were duly approved by the BoGs and MoES.

                                                              36
                             Prepared and distributed to schools simplified
                              information charts illustrating the process for
                              school-based procurement of contractors.
3.2   Support      to     Support NAPE cycles for the years 2008/9 – 2014.      All 2008/9 to 2013
      assessment                                                                cycles         100%     The            Project
      (NAPE)      and                                                           concluded.      2014    supported 90% of the
      examination                                                               cycle funded up to      contract for the web-
      system.                                                                   data       collection   based printer. 10%
                                                                                phase.          Data    which         includes
                                                                                processing       and    installation and staff
                                                                                report writing for      training were borne
                                                                                this cycle to be        by the UNEB as this
                                                                                completed        with   happened after July
                                                                                UNEB funds.             31.

                          UNEB computers, Optical Marker Reader and
                          printer

                                                                                   UNEB
                                                                                    Computers and
                                                                                    Optical Marker
                                                                                    Reader,     and
                                                                                    accessories for
                                                                                    the web based
                                                                                    printer    were
                                                                                    delivered    &
                                                                                    installed.
                                                                                
3.3   Conduct                A study to assess the impact of PPP               Done
      technical               arrangement was conducted in 2012 and report
      studies:                finalised and results disseminated.

      -         Impact       A study to review double shift schools was
      evaluations             undertaken in 2012 and report finalised and       Done
                              results disseminated.
      -        External
      evaluation     of      A study to track the flow of and utilization of
      program                 UPPET capitation grants was undertaken 2012
                              and   the     recommendations     are     being   Done
      -        Project        implemented.
      monitoring                                                                                        MoES committed to
      studies                Expression of Interest (EOI) for the external                             undertaking      this
                              review of the UPPET programme was                                         review in the coming
                              advertised on 05-Dec-2013 (New Vision                                     year.
                              newspaper) and closed on 23-Dec-2013.
                              Evaluation of the submitted EOIs was done.

3.4   Development of  Implementation plan of STDMS approved.                   100% Completed
      the Secondary  STDMS budget approved.
      Teacher           A summary of all the deliverables
      Development
      and
      Management
      System
      (STDMS)
3.5   Assessments for • The strategy for “Skilling Uganda” developed            100% Done
      the          re- and formally launched at Jinja Vocational Training
      orientation and Institute on 02-Oct-2012 by H.E. the President of
      expansion     of Uganda.
                                                            37
      BTVET               •     A 26-member task force to spearhead the
      subsector           implementation of the programme was inaugurated
                          by the Hon. Minister of Education and Sports on 23-
                          Oct-2012. The Task Force will oversee the
                          implementation of the programme until the Skills
                          Development Organisation is established.
3.6   Fiduciary Audits    Procurement audit for the school based procurement    Done
      (procurement        for phase I & II was undertaken and completed in
      and     financial   2012 by M/S AH Consulting and M/S KPMG at a
      management)         cost US$ 350,859.

                           Annual financial audits are conducted by the
                            Auditor General and reports submitted to the
                            World Bank.
                           An In-depth financial management review was
                            conducted by IDA in 2012
3.7   Strengthening       • Operationalization of the GPS_GIS of the EMIS        100% completed.
      Education           through a pilot mapping exercise of all education
      Management          institutions in two large districts of Uganda –
      Information         Kampala and Wakiso. .
      System




                                                            38
Annex 3: Financial and Economic Analysis

1.      Efficiency in the outcome rating for operations asks whether the costs involved in achieving
project objectives were reasonable in comparison with both the benefits and with recognized norms
(“value for money”). The analysis in the PAD discussed the traditional measures of cost efficiency such as
unit cost norms, and internal efficiency measures such as repetition rate, transition rate and completion
rate; and external efficiency measure such as rate of return to education (RORE) as well as project
relevance measures such as net present value, economic rate of return, and comparisons - and aspects of
design and implementation that either contributed to or reduced efficiency. The ICR has indicated the
components, and percentage of total project costs, covered by any such analysis (noting any differences
from the analyses at appraisal).

2.      It is important to note that follow up to the launch of the UPPET program, the World Bank
supported the review of the secondary education sub sector strategic plan as an integral part of the project
design process. Informed by the 2007 Public Expenditure Review (PER) for education, a number of
efficiency enhancement policy measures were executed by the sector – in line with the Letter of Sector
Policy - for sustainable delivery of the UPPET reform program. Ensuring sector adherence to these
reforms by the project supervision team was undertaken through regular policy dialog including overall
coordination of the secondary education sub sector development partners’ group. The reforms include:

(a) Efficiency in the use of the existing teacher resource was improved through increases in teacher load
from 16 to 24 periods per week consistent with international norms. It was anticipated that this would
enhance efficiency by increasing the student to teacher ratios from 22:1 to 33:1 over the project period;
but only realized 30:1 to date. Nevertheless, these norms are still guiding allocation of secondary school
teachers.

(b) The 42 subject curriculum menu for lower secondary was reduced to 18 in 2009 of which 8 subjects
(including physical education) were identified as core and mandatory for offer by all secondary schools in
Uganda as an interim measure. This would enable sustainable resourcing of schools by the sector.
Transition from the interim curriculum will happen after the grade wise roll out of the new learning area
based curriculum projected for 2017.

(c) Procurement of instructional materials was also changed from subject book-title per grade by local
publishers to subject course-book modality with application of international competitive bidding (ICB).
This reform generated a unit cost of US$1.3 per book inclusive of delivery to schools, and hence
improving the student to textbook ratios as indicated above for the 7 core subjects. In addition, the modal
has been adopted by the sector and will also be used in other projects like the Teacher and School
Effectiveness project supported by the Global Partnership for Education.

(d) Double-shift instruction was introduced in over-enrolled public schools offering the USE for efficient
use of existing infrastructure. This would enable use of existing stock of classrooms by more learners
hence the targeted 1:72 student to classroom ratio. However, with 24% enrollment increase over the 5 year
period coupled with additional infrastructure in schools, student to classroom ratio currently stands at 54:1.
Of importance to note is that double-shift instruction was an interim measure whose continuity was
dependent on the speed at which school infrastructure was provided. An impact evaluation of this reform
was also undertaken by the World Bank.



                                                     39
(e) Partnerships with low cost private schools were instituted by Government to enable access to
secondary education by learners in sub counties that did not have public secondary schools consistent with
the delivery policy. This arrangement enabled Government leverage private school infrastructure and
other resources. This arrangement also enabled de-congestion of crowded public schools in especially
urban places and partly explains the low uptake of double shift instruction by public schools. As with
double-shift instruction, an impact evaluation was also undertaken on this reform program with the World
Bank.

(f) Efficiency in secondary school infrastructure was enhanced through introduction of low designs of
classrooms and multi-purpose science rooms, and adoption of school based procurement modalities. A
classroom with furniture has been constructed at a unit cost of US$ 9,984; and a unit cost per square meter
of US$142.

A) Financial Analysis

3.       During the project life time, there has been a shift in project resources and restructuring of project
activities towards school civil works, especially to cater for price variations of construction materials and
general inflation pressures that tripled during project execution. The changes in the efficiency associated
with this shift could not be quantified because efficiency data for the three project components is
unavailable. However, evidence arising from the field interviews indicate that investments in school
infrastructure and school based management are likely to have had a positive effect on access, teaching
and learning in secondary education. It is hoped that investments to support system level activities
continue through other follow-up interventions.

Unit cost for civil works to show evidence of value for money

4.    Assessments of unit costs of delivering key activities of this project have been done on civil works.
The comparison with initial (PAD) estimation reveals that the average actual unit cost of classrooms of
UPPET is 14% below the initial average unit cost estimation of classrooms in the PAD in real term. As
shown in Table 1, the current units costs estimated in 2008 during project preparation (and included in the
PAD in 2009) are actualized in 2012 US$. Then they are compared to the actual unit costs. This is a
major positive achievement of UPPET implementation.

5. UPPET project ranks lower in average cost per m2 of classrooms among the main six classroom
construction projects currently financed in Uganda, with an averaged unit cost of 142US$/m2, while
unit costs of all other projects are all either equal or higher than 142 US/m2 (Table 1). The high difference
with the averaged unit costs may be due to the difference of implementation modalities - a UPPET
decentralized approach outperforms other projects’ centralized approaches. Another source of differences
in unit cost is probably mainly due to the fact that a project such as NUSAF operates in difficult areas
where security, inter alia, is recent and not strongly established. The school based procurement modality
reform implemented with support from the project also equipped school management personnel (head
teachers, teachers, and boards of governors) with financial and procurement skills for school level
governance during project execution. This has enhanced their capacity to undertake similar projects in
future.




                                                      40
Table 1: Average Unit Costs of classroom construction (US$)
   Item                                        Method       Av.    Unit         Other               Sub Saharan
                                               Used         cost                Education           Africa      unit
                                                            per item            Development         rates (US$)
                                                            (US$)               projects rates in
                                                                                Uganda (US$)
1.   Civil works (per classroom) by phase and
     type of structure) or any other method
     proposed by Serge.
     2-classroom block                            LCB             10,007
     3-classroom block                                            9,989
     Average unit cost per sq. meter for 2 & 3                    134
     classroom block
     Multi-story classroom block                                  38,263
     Average unit cost per sq. meter for Multi-                   377
     story building
     Average unit cost per sq. meter for all                      142           ADB IV (374)        172.00*
     building types                                                             NUSAF II (241)
                                                                                MoES (230)

2    Furniture
     Average real cost per classroom1????         LCB             2,457                             1,110 to 2,200
3.   Textbooks with delivery to schools
     First consignment (2011)                                     0.26          MoES planning        Range between
     Second consignment (2013)                    ICB             2.39          figure    ranges    1-15
     Total average unit cost                                      1.33          from     US$3-5
                                                                                with delivery to
                                                                                schools
4.   Science kits of 116 assorted science
     instruction items serving 240 learners per
     kit -delivery to schools inclusive
     First consignment (2011)                        ICB             1586.41
     Second consignment (2013)                                       1513.00
     Average unit cost with delivery to schools                      1549.70                          3,820***
5.   Complementary chemical reagents kits            ICB             527.07
6.   Metallic lockable cupboards with delivery ICB                   633.70
     to schools
7.   International certificate in management and International 1319.57             3000-5000***
     pedagogical leadership – inclusive of Training
     tuition, materials, accommodation and Program
     supervision.
     Notes:
     [*] = average unit cost per sq. meter using local competitive bidding computed by Theunynck, S. (2009)
     [1] = 1Computations based on 2011 prices
     [**] = Mutale C.; Ogwa J.; Sadiq M.; and White,D.C. (2008). Impact evaluation of the Pilot Phase of the Nigeria
     UNESCO Science and Technology Education Project. International Oversight Service Section.108/EVS/P1/90.
     UNESCO
     [***] Web based international university searches.


6.     Cost Efficiency arising from other unit costs: Text books were supplied, reflecting a unit cost of
US$0.26 for the first consignment to 1,559 schools, procured in 2011 using local contractors, US$2.39 for
the second consignment to 1,642 USE schools, procured in 2013 resulting in overall average unit cost of
US$1.33 per book. There was cost efficiency through procuring course book title modality (rather than
                                                             41
subject and grade book), and by using international competitive bidding. Application of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) modalities enabled a unit cost of US$2.7 including delivery to schools. This is
in line with the actual unit cost in other projects in Burundi and Niger, where textbooks cost between
US$ 1.1 and 1.4 per book21. Fredriksen and Brar (2013) 22 estimated average unit costs of secondary
textbooks for sub-Saharan Africa within the range of US$1-15; implying project costs for Uganda were at
the extreme lower end of the sub-Saharan range. Use of the ICT based beneficiary assessment in
partnership with UNICEF has enabled efficient and timely data capture of textbook utilization practices.

7.      The distribution of school inputs were targeted to all USE schools for lower secondary pupils (S1-
S4) irrespective of age. USE schools were considered to have the neediest and poor learners compared to
the public fee paying schools which were not targeted for the inputs, as these are attended by learners with
higher social economic status as reflected in the fees paid. The method of distribution was perceived as
fair and equitable and to where the need is greatest, and therefore higher marginal returns.

8.     Exchange rate gains: The gains from exchange rate amounted to US$ 2.25 million as part of the
undisbursed/returned funds at the end of the project. The project achieved some saving arising from
depreciation of the currency against the US dollar, as most of the project activities (especially civil works)
were contracted and paid out in Uganda Shillings (UGX).

9.     Evolution of the budget support: The level of government spending on education increased in
nominal terms and remained stable in real terms for the past decade according to the medium term
expenditure framework for Uganda (Figure 1). This is evidence that the IDA grant was a top-up on
spending on education. Public expenditure measured in real terms increased from UGX 1048.3 billion to
UGX 1220.3 billion (by 16%), and slightly declined by 1.4 percent on the country’s GDP during the fiv e
year period.

10.     Since the inception of the universal primary education policy, primary education sub-sector has
received priority funding from budget and off-budget support, constituting more than half of the total
education spending. However, the introduction of Universal Secondary Education (USE) policy has
rejuvenated government focus to secondary education financing through UPPET and UPOLET schemes.
The share of secondary education spending is steadily rose from 19.7% in 2004/05 to 30.9% in 2009/10
(Figure 2). It is anticipated that more public finance would further be allocated to secondary education as a
priority, to address the unending quality and inefficiency challenges still facing the sub-sector.




21ICR (TF-94742), Niger Basic Education Support Project, 2012: US$1.1 for elementary school textbooks and US$1.4 for grade 6 textbooks.
ICR (IDA-H2730), Burundi Education Sector Reconstruction Project, 2012: Unit price of US$1.2 for primary school textbooks.

22Fredriksen, B. and Brar, S. (2013). Strategies for Addressing the High Textbook Costs/Low Textbook Availability Problem in Sub-Saharan
Africa.




                                                                  42
Figure 1: GDP and Education Spending in real terms (2011 prices)
                                         GDP and Education Spending
       Billion Uganda shillings      1,300                                                                     18
             (in real terms)         1,200                                                                     16
                                                                                                               14
                                     1,100                                                                     12
                                     1,000                                                                     10
                                       900                                                                     8
                                       800                                                                     6
                                                                                                               4
                                       700                                                                     2
                                       600                                                                     0
                                               2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13
                  Total education
                  expense in real              1048.3     1149.7        1242.6        1146.8     1220.3
                       terms
                  % of national
                                                15.4          15.3          16.9          14.7    14.6
                     budget
                  % of GDP                       5.6          5.2           5.3           4.1     4.2




Figure 2: Education budget spending by levels
       60                         57.1                                             56.6
                                               51.9            53.1
       55                                                                                        50
       50
       45
       40
       35
   %




                                                  30.9               28.9                          30.9
       30
       25                            22 20.9                                         22.6
                                                                       18               19.8            19.1
       20                                              17.2
       15
       10
                                  2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13

                          Primary (%)                  Secondary (%)                  Tertiary (%)




11. Financial implications of expanded access to education: The project has brought
potentially financial implications. The expansion of school infrastructure and provision of
instructional materials calls for increase in both school capitation and facility grants to maintain
the infrastructure and to meet day-to-day school utility bills on electricity, water, gas, etc.
Optimal use of classrooms and effective utilization of instructional materials will require
additional teachers (for the new streams as decongesting of existing classrooms happens) and
support staff (librarians and laboratory technicians/assistants). On the other hand, the share of
the national budget for the Education and Sports has continued to fluctuate amidst emerging
issues mainly concerning internal inefficiency that include; high teacher and student
absenteeism rate; high dropout rate (particularly for girls), high repetition and relatively low
completion rates. These challenges clearly indicate that the sector requires priority public
funding to educate the eligible number of students as a pre-requisite for human capital
development and accelerated economic growth.




                                                                                                          43
B) Economic Evaluation

Lower Secondary Education Access Improvements

12.     A trend analysis of the GER indicates that the project target was not achieved (Table 2).
This could be because data was drawn from the two EMIS regimes reflecting a reduction in GER
between 2010 and 2011 (by -2%) signalling attrition of schools follow up to the dropping of the
computation replacement method, hence affecting the numerator and significantly affecting the
GER growth curve. This is likely to have impacted projected trends of enrolment based national
indicators, including outcome indicators for the project. To lend more credence to this
observation, the fitted trend lines of GER are rather flat with insignificant slopes and there are
significant differences of mean values of GER before and after 2010-2011 periods. Besides, the
trends from the Uganda National Household Survey (2009/10 & 2012/13) data indicate that
slopes are more steep and close to the target as at 2012/13 survey.

 Table 2: Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) for lower secondary for Uganda using
 multiple approaches vis-à-vis the 2014 project targets
               2008         2009 2010        2011     2012   2013  2014 2014
               Baseline                                                 Target
               %
        Boys 35.92          35.4    38.9     37.2     37.7   38.9  38.0 42
        Girls 30.08         30.6    33.9     32.7     33.7   35.2  35.0 40
        All    32.95        32.9    36.4     34.9     35.7   37.0  37.0 41
                            UNHS                      UNHS 2012/13
                            2009/10
        Boys                37.7                      40.8
        Girls               33.0                      38.7
        All                 35.3                      39.8
Source: EMIS and Uganda National Household Survey data

13.      Assessing improvements in education access to 759 project schools by category
(completed, dropped from the project and phase III schools) based on 2011 and 2014 enrolment
statistics was undertaken to generate proxies for the outcome development indicators in light of
the challenges faced in the measurement of project development outcomes. The results seem to
suggest that in the period 2011, the enrolments in two school categories (i.e. Completed versus
dropped/phase III) seemed the same. However, in the second period, 2013, the mean difference
of 76 (=582-506) in enrolments was quite significant at 1% (i.e. p-value=0.009). The mean
difference between the completed versus phase III schools was 79 (=582-503) which was also
significant at 5% (0.019) respectively. Based on these analyses, it could be noted that in 2013,
there were more student enrollments in completely constructed project schools as compared to
unconstructed schools of the same characteristics, and such differences could be attributed to
expansion in classrooms.

14.     The project has availed secondary school places to both the poor and non-poor. It
has lessened the cost of secondary education and availed opportunities for the poor to enroll in
secondary education. According to 2005 poverty assessment, cost was by far the most important
reason that 13 to 18 year olds dropped out of school, with 74 percent of rural youth and 56
percent of all youth giving cost as the principal reason for dropping out.



                                                         44
15.     The rationale for providing free secondary access is to narrow the gap between the
girls and boys rates of participation. Component 1 of the project was meant to improve equity
in access to free lower secondary education. Between 2010 and 2014, there has been noticeable
jump in both girls and boys enrolment by 52%, but a slight increase (by 2%) in the share of girls,
as boys’ enrolments slightly reduced by the same margin between two periods (Figure 3). There
is sizeable gender gap from senior one through senior four. Wide gaps are also noted in the year
2010 especially in senior three and four across all the grades; while narrow gaps are evident in
2014 where about 71% of boys attain senior four compared to 65% of girls. Many of the
students enrolled would likely have enrolled even without expansion of school infrastructure, so
the impact of the project would depend on how many additional students enrol and stay in
school due to the improved learning environment.

Figure 3: School participation by grade and gender in Uganda, 2010 & 2014
                   150,000
                                      135,506           128,195
                   130,000
                                                                  113,421
   Cohort access




                                                                                   109,749
                   110,000   108,599            118,077
                                                                                             94,838       96,369
                                                   93,842
                    90,000                                                                                         77,321
                                                             81,249            76,694
                    70,000                                                                             68,097                      2010
                                                                  65,787
                    50,000                                                              58,553                                     2014
                                                                                                                   47,507
                    30,000
                               Male




                                                        Male




                                                                                Male




                                                                                                       Male
                                          Female




                                                                      Female




                                                                                         Female




                                                                                                                   Female



                                Senior 1                    Senior 2             Senior 3               Senior 4
Source: EMIS - Annual School Head Count Exercise that informs capitation grants


Quality, Efficiency and Effectiveness

16.     Internal Efficiency: Improving internal efficiency of lower secondary sub-sector can
lead to quality improvements and cost savings. Reduction in grade repetition reduces the time
students take to complete the cycle and also reduces on the financial burden on part of
government and parents. Under this project, efficiency of education could be achieved through
effective utilization of both school infrastructure and instruction resources under management of
retooled head teachers. High completion rates trigger the improvements in transition rates.
However, internal efficiency indicators did not change significantly due to data issues, and are
unlikely to have led to significant cost savings; as such changes usually take long time to happen.
There is no project data on survival and dropout rate but Table 3 indicates that by 2013, 45 boys
(as compared to 34 girls) of the 100 students entering the lower secondary complete the last
grade with marginally declining repetition rate for all gender. These trends are unlikely have
resulted into value for money and/or any significant cost savings.

   Table 3: Internal Efficiency Indicators (%) by gender
                                                             Gender            2010           2011              2012        2013      2014
         Repetition rate (S1-S6)                             All               2.3            2.0               1.8         1.7       1.3
         Completion rate - S4                                All               39             33                35.5        40        35.3
                                                             Boys              45             35.1              37.6        45        36.7
                                                             Girls             32             30.8              33.5        34        33.8
         Transition rate to post S4                          All               52.7           52.5              58.2        50

                                                                                                  45
                                        Boys               59.8        58.7               66.4            56
                                        Girls              44.1        45.3               48.9            43
     Source: Education Management Information System – MoES, Uganda


17.     External Efficiency: The rate of return to education defines the relevance of this project.
There is strong economic justification for continued investment and expansion of lower
secondary education. Based on the UNHS data sets for the periods 2009/10 and 2012/13 as well
as the 2009 Uganda National Panel Survey (UNPS), differential earnings and social benefits for
different education levels were estimated23. Emerging key messages from the data are that: (a)
private rate of return to various education levels in Uganda have increased overtime, with lower
secondary returns having increased from 15 percent to 25 percent over a five year period, and
with greater gains for the girls with primary education; (b) investments in lower secondary would
enable students transit to the upper secondary level where private and social rates of return are
highest; and (c) from a gender perspective, the high returns for girls with lower and upper
secondary education may imply that females are less likely to join employment after completing
secondary and instead opt to join tertiary education or apprenticeship training – hence
investments in lower secondary enable them transit to the next level with potential for higher
incomes and greater social returns.

              Figure 4: Rates of Return to Education in Uganda (%), UNHS 2009/10 &
                                             2012/13
         45                                                44
     %




         40                                                      35
                          35                                                                        37        36
         35                                                                32                            34
               31
         30                                      26                   28        29
                                                                26                        25
         25                                 24        25                                                           Male
                    18               20                                                        21
         20                   16                                                     19                            Female
                                       15
         15                        11
                 10                                                                                                All
         10
         5
              2009/10 2012/13 2009/10 2012/13 2009/10 2012/13 2009/10 2012/13
                    Primary        Lower secondary Upper secondary                         Tertiary

Source: UNHS 2009/10 & UNHS 2012/13 data collected by Uganda Bureau of Statistics

18.     Prior to the introduction of USE in 2007, returns to secondary education were high - 24
percent for lower secondary and 15 percent for upper secondary, suggesting that the demand for
secondary graduates outstripped the supply. However, the economic returns for lower secondary
education remained relatively stable but with an increase for upper secondary as per 2013 UNHS
estimates. The rise in private returns to secondary education suggests the potential importance of
quality secondary education in sustaining Uganda’s high rate of economic growth. There are also
social returns to lower secondary education, especially positive impact on fertility, infant
mortality and HIV/AIDS infection rates. World Bank research also suggests that long term


23 Using the Mincerian (1974) Wage equation where the dependent variable is the log of wage earnings regressed against set of
dummies for primary, lower secondary, upper secondary, and tertiary. Years of forgone earnings for Uganda are considered at 2
(for primary), 4 (lower secondary), 2 (upper secondary) and 4 (tertiary), based on Psacharopoulos, G. & Patrinos, H. (2012) &
World Bank (2012) World Development Report 2013: Jobs


                                                                           46
benefits from investments in secondary education include: a better qualified work force; better
educated cohorts entering tertiary education leading to productivity efficiency through better
qualified teaching and managerial staff; and improved human development.

19.     Cost effectiveness evaluation of investment operation can be determined by Benefit-
Cost Analysis, Net Present Value (NPV), IRR (both at design and completion stages). The
estimates are computed under two scenarios: expected scenario is based on the restructuring
project design while the actual scenario reports the situation after project implementation. The
benefit-cost ratio for the expected scenario is estimated at 3.9 (which is lower than the actual –
5.0) when the project yields the net present value of USD 154.0 million (against actual of USD
200.1) over the 9 year period with an internal rate of return of 30% (as compared to 44%), thus
suggesting the viability and desirability of the project on economic basis. The high benefit-cost
ratio for the actual scenario may be partly explained by the gap in earnings between secondary
school graduates and those who completed primary school cycle.

20.    Of importance to note is that all the estimates under the actual scenario are a little greater
than the expected scenario considering the delays in funding and project execution– thus the
more net present value of the benefits render the project as being efficient than expected.

21.     Effectiveness in schooling: According to the PAD, implementing the USE policy has
created several UPPET challenges which the government is addressing through measures to
improve efficiency and re-allocate costs. These measures include: (i) optimization of teachers’
time on task; (ii) greater utilization of classrooms through double shifts; (iii) head teacher
training to improve management at the school level; and (iv) improved school inspection. Some
of the project activities were to supply instructional materials and construction of facilities
through school based approach, with responsibility delegated to school Boards of Governors
with technical support from MoES.

22.     Under the school facilities grant (SFG) guidelines, construction of new classrooms and
supply of furniture was meant to achieve the following targets: classroom-student ratio of 1 to 60,
desk to student ratio of 1 to 3, latrine to student ratio of 1 to 40 and at least four teacher houses
per school constructed. It is now the end of the project and targets on some indicators have been
achieved while others are still on course. For instance Student to Classroom Ratio (SCR) for
USE schools increased from 57:1 in 2008 to 60:1 in 2013. As argued in the PAD, upward
moving targets were set in a bid to improve efficiency around use of existing stock of classrooms
through scaling up of double-shift instruction. However, there should be optimal class size for
sustainable efficiency gains without compromising on the quality of teaching and learning
especially in situations where pedagogical techniques are still teacher centered.

Table 4: Student to classroom ratio for EMIS public schools, and USE schools
                                        2008   2009      2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2014
                                                                                            Target
 SCR      (USE      schools     only)   57     58        61     62     77     60     58     72
 All
 PUBLIC                                 60     61        65     66     85     59     54
 PRIVATE                                50     53        56     56     68     62     65
 STR                                    25     26        30     27     27     27     30     33
 USE students share of Government       45     57        61     67     70     71     65     56
 school enrolment (%)
 USE students share of private school   15     21        30     41     49     48     45     44

                                                    47
 enrolment (%)
Source: EMIS and project data


23.     There has been improved efficiency in the use of existing stock of secondary teachers
through redeployment of teachers to deficit schools as well as increasing the teaching load from 16
to 24 hours per week. As a result, classroom construction under the project could have improved the
efficiency of teacher distribution in the areas of excess teachers. As a result, student to teacher ratio
increased marginally from 25:1 to 30:1 over the project period, and the staffing norms are ongoing.
However, subject specific teacher shortages’ exist as opposed to the generic teacher shortages which
could be hard to justify with the current student to teacher ratios.

24.    The support of instructional materials through subject course book modality improved the
student to text book ratio for the 7 subjects from 11:1 to averagely 2:1. The supply model has been
adopted by the education sector in other projects like the Teacher and School Effectiveness project
by the GPE. The certified training course in Management and pedagogical leadership for head
teachers of public USE schools is likely to improve on the impetus of the school management in
diagnosing and solving school immediate challenges.

25.     All the above trends of indicators show that the UPPET project outputs support
government of Uganda strategy to reform the secondary education program; to achieve value for
money in service delivery; to strengthen partnerships with the private sector as well as improve
targeting of resources to schools that are in particular need as they continue to offer public
education.




                                                 48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                      Responsibility/
Names                         Title                                   Unit            Specialty
Lending
Gladys Akurut Alupo           Program Assistant                       AFMUG           Administration
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo          Senior Social Development Spec          OPSOR           Safeguards
Harriet Nannyonjo             Senior Education Specialist & TTL       AFTED           Education
Luis Benveniste               Lead Specialist, Education              AFTED           Education
Mbuba Mbungu                  Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPE - HIS     Procurement
Innocent Mulindwa             Education Specialist                    GEDDR           Education
Aidan Gerard Mulkeen          Senior Education Specialist             AFTEE - HIS     Teacher educ.
Patrick D. Murphy             Consultant                                              Education
Edith Ruguru Mwenda           Senior Counsel                          LEGAM           Legal
Serge Theunynck               Consultant/Engineer                     GEDDR           Civil Works
                                                                                      Financial
Patrick Piker Umah Tete       Sr Financial Management Specialist      GGODR           management
Adriaan M. Verspoor           Lead Spec., Education                   AFTEE - HIS     Economist
                                                                                      Vocational
Van Adams                     Consultant                                              Education
Don Winkler                   Consultant/Economist                                    Economist



Supervision/ICR
Gladys Akurut Alupo      Program Assistant                               AFMUG        Administration
Howard Bariira Centenary Senior Procurement Specialist                   GGODR        Procurement
                                                                                      Financial
Paul Kato Kamuchwezi      Financial Management Specialist                GGODR        Management
                          Senior Education Specialist and Task Team
Innocent Mulindwa                                                        GEDDR        Education
                          Leader
                          Senior Education Specialist/ Task Team
Sukhdeep Brar                                                            GEDDR        Education
                          Leader
                          Senior Education Specialist/Education
Elizabeth Ninan                                                          GEDDR        Education
                          Program Coordinator
Agnes Kaye                Team Assistant                                 AFMUG        Administration
Hege Hope Wade            Senior Operations Officer                                   Operation
Harriet Kiwanuka          Program Assistant                              AFMUG        Administration
                                                                                      Social
Constance Nekessa-Ouma    Social Development Specialist                  GSURR        Safeguards
                                                                                      Environmental
Herbert Oule              Environmental Specialist                       GENDR        management
Gordon Ndahura            Consultant Engineer (Civil)                    Consultant   Civil Engineering
                                                                                      Quantity
Victor Odongo             Consultant Engineer (QS)                       Consultant   Surveying
James Wokadala            Consultant (Economist)                         Consultant   Economics
                          Consultant (Environment         and   Social                Environmental
Nelson Omagor                                                            Consultant   management
                          Safeguards)

                                                49
Sriram Bhagut Mathe   Consultant (Architect)                Consultant   Civil Works
ICR Team
Halsey L. Beemer      ICR Principle Writer
James Wokadala        ICR Consultant – Economics/ Finance
Serge Theunynck       ICR Consultant – Civil Works




                                           50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                      51
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                       52
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SPORTS

UNIVERSAL POST PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMME -
UPPET/APL1 PROJECT (ID: P110803; CREDIT NO. 4570-UG)

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT AS AT 31ST JULY 2014



1.0    INTRODUCTION

1.1    Background

In support of the Universal Post Primary Education and Training Programme (UPPET) launched
in February 2007, the Government of Uganda secured a US$375 million adaptable programme
loan (APL) from the World Bank, to be implemented in three phases over a 10-year period
(2009-2018): (i) Phase One: US$ 150 million (2009-2012); (ii) Phase Two: US$ 125 million
(2012-2014); (iii) Phase Three: US$ 100 million (2014-2018).

The Ministry of Education & Sports has been implementing phase I (APL1) which became
effective on 4th November 2009 and closed on 31st July 2014. During project implementation,
missions have been organized in support of the project.

This implementation completion report presents the project achievements, identifies challenges
encountered, enumerates lessons learnt and rates the performances of the Ministry and the World
Bank Support Team during implementation.

1.2    Basic Data

i.     World Bank Board Approval Date:             31st March 2009
ii.    Uganda Parliament Approval Date:            01st July 2009
iii.   Loan Signing Date:                          27th August 2009
iv.    Loan Effectiveness Date:                    04th November 2009
v.     Original Closure Date:                      31st July 2012
vi.    Extended Closure Date:                      31st July 2014
vii.   Loan Amount:                                US$ 150 Million

1.3    Disbursements and Expenditure

i.     Original Approved Amount:           US$ 150,000,000
ii.    Total Disbursement:                 US$ 142,306,129.13 (94%)
iii.   Undisbursed/cancelled Amount:       US$ 8,433,889.77 (6%)

1.4    Project Description




                                              53
The APL1 Project Development Objectives were to: (i) increase access to lower secondary
education; (ii) improve the quality of lower secondary education; and (iii) enhance the enabling
environment for Post Primary Education and Training (PPET), implemented through three
components:

i.     Component 1: Increase access to lower secondary education through expansion of
       infrastructure (classrooms, multi-purpose science rooms, teachers’ houses, libraries,
       administration blocks and sanitation facilities) in selected existing USE schools under a
       decentralised school-based procurement of works modality.

ii.    Component 2: Improve the quality of lower secondary education through supporting
       curriculum, examination and assessment reform for lower secondary education;
       supporting the improvement of quality of lower secondary education, including pre-
       service teacher education, expanding Kabale and Mubende NTCs; supporting the
       provision of in-service training for teachers, head teachers and schools’ Board of
       Governors, and relevant training for other education managers; improving lower
       secondary schools curriculum, examinations and assessment; and, supporting
       improvement of classroom teaching, through acquisition of instructional materials.

iii.   Component 3: Enhance the enabling environment for post primary education and
       training through strengthening management capacity of schools, satellite institutions and
       departments of Ministry of Education and Sports; support for the assessment and
       examination system; undertaking key studies to guide future direction of the implemented
       reforms; and, assessments for the reorientation and expansion of Tertiary Vocational
       Education and Training (TVET).

2.0    ACHIEVEMENTS

2.1    Component 1

 Type of Facility        Planne     Planned     Actual     Completed    Incomplet   Phase III
                         d     in   after                               e           Cancelled
                         the        Constructio
                         PAD        n Planning
                         (2009)     (2010)
 Classrooms              1,864      1,335       610        497          113         0
 (Incomplete)
 Classrooms (New)        6,161      3,838          4,052   3,206        353         493
 Administration Blocks 41           49             43      36           5           2
 Science Laboratories  405          384            391     290          54          47
 Teachers Houses         71         76             79      57           11          11
 Libraries               144        138            137     122          6           9
 5-Stance VIP Latrines   2,296      1,570          1,651   1,268        161         222
 Schools                 763        759            759     573          86          100
 Rain Water Tanks        N/A        N/A            768     633          135         0
i.     573 out of 659 schools were completed and handed over to the Board of Governors.


                                              54
ii.    60 schools that terminated were earmarked for central procurement; however, only 15
       schools were approved by IDA. The 45 schools did not receive a No objection because of
       the limited time that was remaining to project closure.
iii.   26 schools were dropped/ cancelled from the project due to non-compliance to fiduciary
       procedures of the project.
iv.    3,703 classrooms completed, which has enabled at least 222,180 students access lower
       secondary education. This has contributed to the overall increased enrolment in USE
       schools from 533,562 in 2008 to 1,007,369 in 2014.
v.     633 (82%) of allocated 768 rain water tanks (each 10,000 litre capacity) installed in 542
       of 659 beneficiary schools. This has improved on sanitation and general hygiene in the
       schools thereby enhancing an enabling environment for education.
vi.    30% of 26,716 units of furniture centrally procured for 122 schools shipped by 31st July
       2014.

2.2    Component 2

a)     Reform of lower secondary curriculum and assessment (CURASSE)

       i.     The new curriculum framework has been developed, comprising of syllabi for
              eight learning areas namely Science, Mathematics, Social Studies, Creative Arts,
              Religious Education, Technology & Entrepreneurship, Languages, and Life
              Education.
       ii.    Exposure visits to Botswana, Ghana, Singapore and Turkey was undertaken by
              the curriculum reform champions.
       iii.   Textbooks specifications, manual for teacher initial exposure, training on item
              development using criterion referenced approach, sample test items, monitoring
              and evaluation framework, and communication strategy for the reform were
              concluded.
       iv.    Phase roll out of the new curriculum planned for 2017.

b)     Support to pre-service teacher education

       i.     Needs assessment report, detailed designs and tender documents prepared for
              rehabilitation and expansion of Kabale and Mubende National Teachers Colleges
              (NTCs).
       ii.    Ready for procurement of contractor(s) to improve the NTCs for enhancement of
              teacher training learning environments.

c)     In-service training for Head teachers of secondary schools implementing USE program.

       i.     922 Head teachers (71% of the PAD 2009 target of 1,300) trained in management
              and pedagogical leadership.
       ii.    The training has empowered the Head teachers with skills and competencies
              required for effective and efficient leadership and management of the schools.
d)     Supply of Instructional Materials

       i.     Textbooks Provision and Storage



                                              55
                   3,892,703 textbooks supplied to 1,642 USE schools covering the core
                    subjects of Mathematics, English Language, Physics, Biology, Chemistry,
                    History of West Africa, History of East Africa, History of South Africa,
                    Geography of East Africa, Map Reading and Photographic Interpretation.
                   Students to textbook ratio improved from the 2009 baseline of 11:1 to 2:1
                    in 2013. However, due to increasing enrolment against static number of
                    textbooks in these subject areas, the ratio is anticipated to rise to 4:1 in
                    2014.
                   90% of 4,923 lockable metallic bookshelves for 616 schools shipped by
                    31st July 2014. Deliveries to schools expected to be completed by 28th
                    February 2015.

      ii.   Science Kits and Chemical Reagents

                   5,215 science kits and 5,113 chemical kits supplied to 1,362 USE schools.
                   Each science kit contains 116 items while a chemical kit has 71 items, and
                    is shared by 240 students.

2.3   Component 3

a)    Strengthening management capacity of Ministry of Education & Sports and secondary
      schools

      i.    Ministry Level

                   Communication and Advocacy Strategy in place and has improved
                    visibility of the sector.
                   Education Management Information System (EMIS) strengthened by
                    operationalizing the GIS module. Data capture for pilot mapping of
                    schools/educational institutions in Wakiso district completed. National roll
                    out to be undertaken after data validation.
                   Interactive GPS system for monitoring of civil works established and
                    enhanced supervision of civil works by availing real-time reports online at
                    http://ugandaschools.net/reports
                   Project management capacity strengthened through continuous
                    professional development of various staff.

      ii.   School Level

                   5,313 school level officials (7 per school), drawn from Boards of
                    Governors, Procurement Units and Construction Management Committees
                    (CMCs) of 759 schools trained and equipped with a set of implementation
                    handbooks, and received simplified information charts illustrating the
                    process for school-based procurement of contractors. Training covered
                    four operational areas of public financial management, public procurement
                    management, management of civil works contracts and safe environmental
                    practices.


                                             56
                   School-specific site layout plans drawn for all 759 beneficiary schools.
                    The plans provide a basis for organized location of earmarked facilities
                    and future developments of the schools.
                   Schools’ Construction Management Committees (CMCs) supported in
                    technical supervision of civil works by four consultancy firms from March
                    2011 to March 2014.

b)    Development of Secondary Teacher Development and Management System (STDMS)

      i.     STDMS, implementation and costed plan developed, as a holistic and fully
             institutionalized professional teacher development and support programme that
             integrates in-service and pre-service training of secondary school teachers, Head
             Teachers and Education Managers at various levels.
      ii.    The overall goal of the STDMS is to improve secondary school students’ learning
             and competency levels.

c)    Support to national assessment and examination system

      i.     Computers, servers, optical marker reader and accessories supplied and installed
             at the Uganda National Examinations Board (UNEB). The equipment has
             enhanced UNEB’s capacity to handle increased volume of assessment arising
             from increased USE enrolment.
      ii.    Web offset printing machine and processless computer to plate guillotine and
             jogging equipment delivered to UNEB by project closure. Pending installation,
             commissioning and user training.

d)    Assessments for the re-orientation and expansion of BTVET subsector

      i.     The Strategic Plan for Skilling Uganda in place with a 26-member task force to
             spearhead the implementation of the program until the Skills Development
             organization is established.
      ii.    Baseline survey for BTVET schools and institutions completed by the reform task
             force. Pending data processing and report writing.

e)    Technical studies

      i.     Study to track the flow of and utilization of Universal Post Primary Education and
             Training (UPPET) capitation grants completed and recommendations being
             implemented.
      ii.    Assessment of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement concluded and is
             feeding policy formulation.
      iii.   Review of double shift schools concluded in 2012 and report finalized.
      iv.    External review of the UPPET programme could not be concluded before project
             closure. Government to undertake comprehensive review of the UPPET reforms
             during FY 2015/16.

3.0   CHALLENGES

a)    General
                                             57
     i.      Overall late start of the project due to extensive planning required for school-
             based procurement (site layout plans, procurement of trainers, training of
             construction management committees, procurement of TSFs, etc.) – not
             anticipated at project formulation.
     ii.     The project has experienced delays in disbursement mainly due to strong attention
             paid to quality of implementation and strict adherence to the lengthy procurement
             cycle.
     iii.    Stringent measures and onerous requirements by the Bank which have often
             resulted in delays in processing withdraw requests and release of funds to schools.
     iv.     Low usage of supplied instructional materials by students.
     v.      A challenge of storage for textbooks has been identified in over 70% of the
             beneficiary schools. Most of these schools lack libraries and are storing the
             textbooks supplied in administration offices and stores, which are often
             inaccessible to students.
     vi.     Many schools (especially private) lack science rooms or their construction have
             stalled. Science kits are variously stored in offices, dusty rooms and libraries.
     vii.    Insufficient resources to re-tool teachers and supply instructional materials for the
             newly developed curriculum.
     viii.   Inaccurate baseline data used at project inception led to setting of unrealistic
             targets. Furthermore, change in data collection methodologies by the Ministry in
             2011 generated two data regimes causing decline in values for key indicators post
             2011 and unsatisfactory achievement of the Project Development Objectives
             (PDOs).

b)   Procurement

     i.      Under phase I, some school administrations carried out negotiations on price to
             enable contractors fit within the available funds (or ceiling). This caused
             implementation problems where some contractors failed to complete projects due
             to under quotation.

c)   Financial Management

     i.      Slow accountability of advances by schools.
     ii.     Ineligible expenditure resulting from diversions of funds at school level.
     iii.    Some school administrators made payments to contractors without certificates or
             bank guarantees.
     iv.     Payment of less amounts than certified by the Technical Supervision Firms due to
             diversion of funds to non-project activities.
     v.      Payment of advance funds without advance payment guarantee from the bank.
             Schools could not recover excess payments from such terminated contracts.

d)   Civil Works Implementation

     i.      Slow progress by schools in executing the school-based procurement process and
             civil works. Many contractors for phase I schools were unable to supply furniture
             because of reduced profit margins attributed to hiked cost of timber and steel.


                                              58
      ii.     Unexpectedly high double digit inflation after initiating contracting process
              during 1st half of 2011 for phase I schools which impacted negatively on unit
              costs.
      iii.    Increased unit costs for phase II shrunk the allocated resources for civil works
              leading to cancellation of phase III construction.
      iv.     Failure to carry out due diligence which resulted into relatively low calibre
              contractors at school level (limited cash flows, inadequate technical staff,
              construction not their core business etc).
      v.      Development of site layout plans: the main challenge under this activity was
              continuous change of location for the structures by some schools’ Boards of
              Governors (BoGs) which delayed the consultants to come up with a finally
              agreeable copy of the layout plan and also caused delays in commencement of
              works.
      vi.     Delays in commencement of works for storeyed structures due to need for
              structural redesigns owing to site peculiarities such as poor soils, hilly terrain,
              existing public utilities etc.
      vii.    The TSFs approving works which is below standard. TSFs and contractors were
              charged liquidated damages.
      viii.   Disagreements between Technical Supervision Firms and school administrations
              about payments.
      ix.     Inadequate supervision at school level by the TSFs which resulted into;
                   Performance bonds not being renewed when contracts expire.
                   Getting certification from offices other than that of Technical
                      Supervision Firms or the Ministry.
      x.      Contracts expiring without the school administration nor the TSFs noticing and
              requiring contractors to request for extension of contract. This led to contracts
              being null and void.
      xi.     Termination of contracts: school administrations being reluctant to terminate
              contracts even when expert advice is given by Technical Supervision Firms and
              the Ministry.
      xii.    The 4-Unit Teachers Houses being constructed in phase I and phase II are without
              kitchens and latrines.
      xiii.   Some contractors having multiple sites yet with low capacity which lead to failure
              to perform

4.0   LESSONS LEARNT

a)    The volume of civil works supplied by the project exceeded the demand by the local
      contractors. Many contractors with multiple sites failed to perform and were therefore
      terminated. The Ministry thus placed a caveat of not more than three simultaneous
      contract awards/execution for any bidder. In future, allocated facilities at a given school
      could be constructed in a phased manner but allowing the same contractor to enjoy tenure
      and execute all of the works. This will build their capacity and also enable timely
      completion.
b)    (S)low consumption/absorption of funds by local contractors as the volume of works
      exceeded their capacities. Such contractors were terminated, sites attractively lotted and
      high calibre replacements secured under centralized procurement, who comfortably
      executed works within contracted time.


                                              59
c)    Release of entire contract sum in two tranches led to holding of idle funds (10% retention
      sums which could only be consumed after maturity of the defects liability period) on
      school accounts denying other schools in need of funding and delaying accountability.
      Retention monies were thus withheld from all disbursements to schools from the
      beginning of 2014, and were released at such times when penultimate and final
      certificates were issued. This enabled more schools to be funded and lessened the
      outstanding advances.
d)    Many schools held advances on their bank accounts for over 18 months due to stalled
      works or delayed replacement of terminated contractors. The Ministry recalled such
      funds beginning in 2013 and re-disbursed to other schools that required funding. This
      improved on the rate of completion of works, reduced on level of outstanding advances
      and clipped potential ineligible expenditures by schools.
e)    Where school administrators were vigilant in supervision, works were completed in time
      and of good quality. In some cases, fast-footed Head teachers were transferred by the
      Ministry to superintend completion of re-tendered works or fast track completion of
      stalled sites under school-based implementation.
f)    Technical Supervision Firms were unable to meet the Terms of Reference of submitting
      monthly reports not later than the 10th day into the following month (some cases delaying
      by over three months), due to the voluminous reporting requirements. The Ministry could
      not as such identify corrective measures or take timely decisions where implementation
      was impeded. The format was therefore simplified in 2012 to track progress and ease the
      reporting activity. Real time reporting was introduced in 2013 by publishing monitoring
      reports on-line which could be publicly accessed any time. In future, Head teachers could
      be required to email reports or submit on-line, since the Government is providing internet
      facilities at public secondary schools.

5.0   PERFORMANCE RATING

5.1   Government Performance

a)    Rating:          Satisfactory

b)    Justification:

      i.        91% of the loan disbursed by project closure – July 31,2014.
      ii.       87% of the beneficiary schools completed.
      iii.      Other activities executed as indicated above.

5.2   World Bank Performance

a)    Rating:          Satisfactory




                                                60
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                       61
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank, 2008; Aide Memoire, Proposed World Bank Support for the Universal Secondary
Education Program, Identification Mission, January 14-25, 2008

World Bank, 2008; Aide Memoire, Proposed World Bank Support for the Universal Secondary
Education Program, Pre-Appraisal Mission, March 25-Apil 4, 2008

World Bank, 2008; Quality Enhancement Review Panel Report – Uganda Post Primary
Education and Training Program; July 7, 2008

World Bank, 2008; Aide Memoire, Proposed World Bank Support to the Universal Post
Primary Education and Training Program – Technical Mission July 16-August 5, 2008 – Aide
Memoire

World Bank, 2009; Aide Memoire, Proposed World Bank Support to the Universal Post Primary
Education and Training Program – Appraisal Mission, January 20-27, 2009 – Aide Memoire

World Bank, 2009; Republic of Uganda – Post Primary Education and Training Project Minute
of Negotiations, February 5, 2009

World Bank, 2009; Project Appraisal Document the proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 99
Million (US$150 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Uganda for a Post Primary Education
and Training Adaptable Program Lending (APL1) Project in Support of the First Phase of the
Uganda Post Primary Education and Training Program, March 5, 2009

World Bank, 2009; Financing Agreement (for Post Primary Education and Training Project)
between the Republic of Uganda and the International Development Association Dated August
27, 2009

World Bank, 2009-2014; Implementation Status and Results Reports, No. 1 through No. 11

World Bank, 2009-2014; Aides Memoir dated September 2010, November 2011, July 2012,
May 2013, May 2014, July 2014

World Bank, 2012; Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Restructuring of Uganda Post-Primary
Education and Training - Project Board Approval Date: March 31, 2009 – To The Republic of
Uganda, July 18, 2012

World Bank, 2013; Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Restructuring of Uganda Post-Primary
Education and Training - Project Board Approval Date: March 31, 2009 – To The Republic of
Uganda, August 9, 2013

World Bank, 2014; Republic of Uganda, Uganda Post Primary Education and Training (UPPET):
Adaptable Program Lending (APL1) Project (P110803) Mini-Assessment of Project
Implementation Progress – Mid January 2014

World Bank, 2011-13; Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) Report –

                                           62
Uganda – Education Sector Strategic Plan (ESSP) Support – FTIE-EFA FTI Education Program
Development Fund, 2011

Uganda DS PPP Impact Evaluation – PISA – Poverty and Social Impact Analysis MDTF 2012.

Uganda DS PPP Impact Evaluation – PISA – Poverty and Social Impact Analysis MDTF 2013.

Collaboration with Ireland AID Regarding Education in Africa, CWI-ED – Collaboration with
Ireland Regarding Education in Africa, 2013.

Uganda Double Shift and PPP Impact Evaluation, NPEF – Norwegian Post Primary Education
Fund, 2013

World Bank, 2013; Report of the Consultant Recruited to Support the World Bank Review
Mission to Assess the Implantation and Progress and Advise of the Civil Works Component
of the UPPEP Programme, December 2013 (date ?)

World Bank, 2013; Correspondence regarding Uganda UPPET Project Fraud Allegation,
November 6, 2013

World Bank Correspondence with Government of Uganda: June 28, 2012; April 22, 2014; June 3,
2014;

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2007; letter from
Government of Uganda to World Bank to propose preliminary discussions between the Bank
and GoU on proposed post primary education project. April 23, 2007

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Finance, 2007; Correspondence from the GoU
to the World Bank Requesting Assistance to Universal Secondary Education, June 11, 2007

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Finance, 2008; Re: Letter of Uganda’s
Education Sector Policy, October 1, 2008

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2009; Uganda Post
Primary Education and Training Program - Letter of Sector Policy, January 30, 2009

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2010; Plan for
Construction of Facilities, Universal Post Primary Education and Training Program, January
2010.

Government of the Republic Uganda, 2013, The Auditor General – Audit of the Financial
Statements for the Year ended 30 June, 2012, February 6, 2013 – (unqualified)

Government of the Republic Uganda, 201, The Auditor General – Audit of the Financial
Statements for the Year ended 30 June, 2013, January 24, 2014 – (unqualified)

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2012; Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the Reform Task Force (RTF), October 23, 2012


                                            63
Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports; Universal Post Primary
Education and Training Project (UPPET) – Adaptable Program Lending (APL1) Project –
Additional Report of the Consultant for Three Days December, 2013

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2013; Skilling Uganda:
Unlocking our Productivity Potential – BTVET Strategic Plan 2012/3 to 2021/2

Government of the Republic of Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2013; Audit of
Procurement by Secondary Schools under APL1/UPPET – World Bank Support Project,
Final Report (Volume I)
Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2014; The Progress
Report on the Status of Environmental and Social Safeguards of Secondary School
Constructions under APL 1 – May 2014 and June 2014

Government of the Republic Uganda, Ministry of Education and Sports, 2014; Uganda Post
Primary Education and Training Project – Adaptable Program Lending (UPPET/APL1), in
support of the First Phase of the Universal Post Primary Education and Training (UPPET)
Programme 2009-2018 – Draft Implementation Completion Report, as at 30th June, 2014

Agile Learning Company Inc., 2013; Proposal for Piloting School and Institution Mapping
Exercise in Kampala City Council Authority and Wakiso District; Submitted to the Minister
of Education and Sports, October 2013




                                            64
                      Annex 10: UPPET/APL1 Results Tracking Matrix

1. Results Tracking Matrix: Despite the achievements for the education sector, none of the
project development outcome (PDO) indicators were met; and only one of the intermediate
outcome indicators was met. This resulted from amongst others, the following factors. First of all,
the project design was anchored on the overall Universal Post Primary Education and Training
(UPPET) program with nationwide coverage of project activities, as well as national program
outcome indicators (gross enrollment ratios – overall and for girls & boys, transition rate, student
to classroom ratio, student to teacher ratio and student to textbook ratio) - which was more than
what could realistically attributed to project activities. Secondly, the targets were informed by
assumptions drawn from enrollment statistics generated by the Education Management
Information System (EMIS) for the years prior to 2011, which could not hold when changes in
EMIS reporting were effected from 2011. The changes also subjected project reporting to two
EMIS regimes - (prior to 2011, and after 2011) yet respective regimes had different trend
patterns for enrollment growth.

2. As highlighted above, the project was anchored on the UPPET program and hence project
monitoring was based on the national Education Management Information System (EMIS)
systems data. The EMIS is updated annually using two data collection systems. The self-
administered Annual School Census (ASC) for all schools in Uganda, and the Head Count (HC)
exercise for only public institutions. The latter data set validates the former and was one of the
improvements undertaken in 2011 in a bid to improve data validity but its limited to only public
institutions. The 2014 data from the HC exercise is available with completion estimated at
almost 100% due to capitation funds issues.

3. The EMIS and project indicators. The two major issues for consideration are; (a)
inconsistency between the 2008 baseline data reported in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
and the EMIS system generated statistics for the same year; (b) monitoring of project outcomes
based on agreed indicators that spans two Education Management Information Systems (EMIS)
data regimes – 2008 to 2010, and 2011 to date. The discordance in baseline statistics arises from
the regular updates of the EMIS based on the Annual School Census (ASC) returns from
districts; while detailed trend analysis have been undertaken to guide Government decisions on
how to address issues around outcome indicators for an objective assessment of project
performance.

4. The EMIS is updated using the Annual School Census (ASC) instrument returns from schools
through the District Education Offices (DEOs), with a low completion/response rate. For
example, response rates for the years 2008 and 2009 were 64.1% and 67.5% respectively. For
effective planning, the Statistics Unit of the MoES was scaling up enrolments using
computational replacements up to the year 2010.

5. One major implication to the project measurement norms is that the targets had been projected
based on the replacement method that reported relatively higher enrolment growth rates for
lower secondary than is registered since 2011 leading to unrealistic assessment of project
performance based on the set indicator targets. Since 2011, the MoES launched new data
collection approaches. This involved dropping of the ‘replacement method’ which was widely
used prior to 2011 in a bid to estimate enrolment statistics for the ASC non-responsive schools.
This implied that for the years 2011 to date (2013), the enrolment estimates are based on actual


                                                65
numbers of schools reported. For the public schools, further validation of the ASC statistics is
through the annual head count exercises that inform capitation grant allocations.

6. The changes in EMIS data generated a decline in enrolment growth rate (by -2%) affecting
enrolment statistics between 2010 and 2011 as shown in the data sheet in Annex 1. This is likely
to have impacted trends of enrolment based national indicators, including outcome indicators for
the project. At a national level, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) advised the MoES to
initiate trend analyses after a two year observational phase of data dynamics (2011-2012) and
then resume 2013 with new baselines. This however, is not possible for the project as clear
trends have to be established for clear assessment of project performance against anticipated
targets. Attemptswere thus made to re-examine the outcomes indicators’ data using multiple
approaches for consideration by the MoES in collaboration with the Bank guided by the
following question – what would be the status of outcome indicators vis-à-vis set targets under
the current or past EMIS regimes with special focus on the period 2011-2013?

7. The mini-assessment of 2014 also revealed that project targets were based on inflated
enrollment assumptions underpinned by ambitious efficiency enhancing targets. These could not
hold when the education sector changed the Education Management Information System (EMIS)
reporting norms in 2011, which subjected the project to two reporting regimes. Efforts to
standardize the project to one reporting norm were undertaken during the January 2014 mini-
assessment. However, variations in baseline values rendered use of other statistical tools
inappropriate. Again a restructuring to change indicator targets was not possible at this stage as
over 80% of project funds had already been spent. Earlier, the World Bank expressed proactivity
to calibrate indicators and change targets through the August 2013 restructuring, but the MoES
did not declare the changes that had been effected in the EMIS data capture. An opportunity to
resolve the issue was thus lost. Lessons learnt have continued to inform implementation
readiness of the GPE supported Teacher and School Effectiveness project for the primary
education subsector, as well as the Uganda Skills Development project under design. Capacity of
the MoES Statistics Unit has also been built by the Project, including supporting a school
mapping pilot in partnership with USAID.

8. The following tables outline the two EMIS data regimes followed by the MoES.




                                               66
  Indicator          Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                   NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                    Source   Baseline         2009              2010                  2011                   2012                2013                   2014
                              2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual   Target          Actual   Target      Actual  Target      Actual   Target          Actual24

   Project
 Development
  Objectives
 a) Increase
      access to
       lower
     secondary
     education
  a.1) Gross
Enrolment Rate
   (S1-S4)
         Boys     EMIS/U     35.9%      31%     35.4%     36%      38.9%     41%            37.2%     42%       37.7%      42%       38.9%     42%             38.0%
                    BOS25
         Girls    EMIS/U     30.1%      29%     30.6%     34%      33.9%     40%            32.7%     40%       33.7%      40%       35.2%     40%             35.0%
                    BOS
          Over    EMIS/U     32.9%     30%      32.9%     35%      36.4%    40%             34.9%    41%       35.7%       41%       37.0%    41%             37.0%
            all     BOS
 c) Enhance
         the
      enabling
     environme
     nt for post
      primary
     education
         and
      training
c.2) Transition              Baseline
   rate to S5                 200827




         24
              Ministry of Education and Sport (MoES) is yet to pronounce itself on the 2014 EMIS statistics
         25
              UBOS – Uganda Bureau of Statistics



                                                                                 67
  Indicator            Data                  OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                                  NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                      Source    Baseline           2009              2010                               2011                     2012                2013                                 2014
                                 2008        Target    Actual Target     Actual                Target          Actual     Target      Actual  Target      Actual                 Target           Actual24

(based MoES
 definition26)
         Boys        EMIS/U     36.2%                   41.1%                    38.1%                        39.0%                    39.4%                      32.8%
                       NEB
             Girls   EMIS/U     33.8%                   36.1%                    30.8%                        29.1%                    29.0%                      23.3%
                       NEB
         Over        EMIS/U     35.1%        45.0%      38.7%       46.0%       34.8%         47.0%           34.4%      48.0%         34.5%        49.0%         28.3%         58.0%
           all         NEB
Transition rate
 to S5 (based
  UNESCO
 definition28)
         Boys        EMIS/A     45.2%                   51.9%                    42.2%                        44.0%                    44.4%                       34%
                       SC29
             Girls   EMIS/A     40.7%                   43.6%                    33.3%                        33.9%                    34.0%                       25%
                        SC
         Over        EMIS/A     43.1%        45.0%      47.9%       46.0%       38.1%         47.0%           39.4%      48.0%         39.6%        49.0%          30%          58.0%
           all          SC
Transition rate
  to post S4
    (MoES
 definition)30
         Boys        EMIS/U     76.2%                   66.4%                    59.8%                        58.7%                    66.4%                       56%
                       NEB
             Girls   EMIS/U     54.9%                   48.5%                    44.1%                        45.3%                    48.9%                       43%
                       NEB
        Over         EMIS/U     66.5%        45.0%      58.1%       46.0%       52.7%         47.0%           52.5%      48.0%         58.2%        49.0%          50%          58.0%
          all          NEB
 Intermediate
   Outcome
  Indicators



         27 The baselines for Transition rate were regenerated and supplied by EMIS team as stated in the UPPET Mini Assessment Report; which are slightly different from those statistic (44%)
         stated in the PAD and Restructuring paper
         26 100*The Gross Enrolment in S5 in current year/Students who passed in D1-DIV in S4 in previous year national examinations
         28 100*The Gross Enrolment in S5 in current year/Gross enrolment in S4 in previous year
         29 ASC – Annual School Census
         30 Defined as a proportion of students enrolled in post S4 (S5, PTCs & BTVET) as percentage of students who sat S4 and passed in D1-DIV in previous year national examinations




                                                                                                    68
   Indicator           Data                   OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                                  NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                      Source      Baseline          2009              2010                             2011                       2012                2013                       2014
                                   2008       Target    Actual Target     Actual              Target          Actual       Target      Actual  Target      Actual       Target          Actual24

 Component 1
   1.1) Total         EMIS/S      533,562     371,636    627,283    534,058     725,394      615,615          839,867   705,538      923,447               974,605                      1,007,369
      enrolment        HC31
        in USE
       schools
       (S1-S6)
1.2) Number of        EMIS/S       9,316                  10,731                 11,796                       13,533                 12,438                16,228                        16,228
     classrooms        HC
        in USE
       schools
1.2) Student to       EMIS/S         57          66         58         68          61           70              62          72         77         72          60         72                58
      classroom         HC
     ratio (USE         (All
       schools)       schools)
                       Public                               61                     65                           66                     85                     59                           54
                      schools
                        PPP                                 53                     56                           56                     68                     62                           65
                      schools
 Component 2
  2.2) Teachers       Ministry     20,562                 21,317                 22,252                       24,735                 24,269                24,572                        24,572
on payroll in all     of Public
GOU secondary          Service
     schools
    2.2) Total        EMIS/A      514,340                550,631                667,396                       667,796                656,657               669,225                      734,317
enrolment in all        SC
GOU secondary
schools (S1-S6)
 2.2) Student to      EMIS/A         25          30         26         31          30           33              26          33         27         33          27         33                30
  teacher ratio         SC
(S1-S6) - Public
     schools
2.4) Curriculum       APL132                                        Curricul       Not       Subject      Phase I of                 Labour                Phase I                  Phase II of
     review                                                            um        started     content          the                    market               complete                      the
                                                                    framew                  developed      curriculu                 survey                   d:                    curriculum
                                                                      ork                                 m reform                    and                 Syllabi for               reform on-



         31   SHC – School Head Count, conducted by EMIS team and target USE students in both private and public schools
         32   APL1 - Adaptable Programme Lending 1


                                                                                                     69
  Indicator        Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                     NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                  Source   Baseline         2009              2010                    2011                   2012                2013                       2014
                            2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual   Target            Actual   Target      Actual  Target      Actual       Target          Actual24

                                                                                         started on            situational           8 learning                     going;
                                                                                          04-Nov-                analysis            areas were                    Progress
                                                                                            2011                   done;              approved                       53%
                                                                                                               Curriculu                by the
                                                                                                                     m                Curriculu
                                                                                                               framewor                m Task
                                                                                                               k drafted;              Force in
                                                                                                               Exemplar               Oct-2013
                                                                                                                  extracts               and
                                                                                                                  trialled            presented
                                                                                                               out at link           to Council
                                                                                                                 schools;              for final
                                                                                                                 INSETT               approval
                                                                                                                  costing
                                                                                                                  options
                                                                                                               identified;
                                                                                                                  NCDC
                                                                                                               specialists
                                                                                                                trained in
                                                                                                                Tanzania
2.5) Student to   APL1                                    4                   4                2        4             2      4           3           4                2
textbook ratio
   for core
   subjects
Component 3
  3.1) Policy     APL1                                                      TEVT           TEVT                 “Skilling                                      Recruitment
framework for                                                              Strategy       Strategy              Uganda”                                            of RTF
     skills                                                                              approved                strategy                                       Secretariat
 development                                                                                 by                 launched                                       was initiated
                                                                                         Cabinet in               on 02-                                        on 25-Feb-
                                                                                         Nov 2011               Oct-2012                                         2014 and
                                                                                                                 by HE;                                          on-going;
                                                                                                                    26                                           IDA gave
                                                                                                                 member                                         NO on 29-
                                                                                                                   RTF                                         Apr-2014 to
                                                                                                               inaugurate                                       fund initial
                                                                                                                 d on 23-                                       activities of
                                                                                                                Oct-2013                                          the RTF
                                                                                                                 by MES                                        from Project
 3.2) Policy      APL1                                                     Upper             Upper              UPOLET



                                                                                  70
  Indicator         Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                       NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                   Source   Baseline         2009              2010                     2011                    2012                2013                         2014
                             2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual     Target           Actual    Target      Actual  Target      Actual         Target          Actual24

framework for                                                                  Sec.           Sec.                implement
     upper                                                                   Strategy       Strategy                 ation
   secondary                                                                               approved               started in
 development                                                                                   by                    2012
                                                                                           Cabinet in
                                                                                             2011
      Output
   Indicators
 Component 1
  1.2.1 No. of     APL1                                                                                  1,562       374         4,512        2,305     5,173            2,647
   classrooms
  1.2.2 No. of     APL1                                                                                   12          2           44           17        49               22
 administration
       blocks
  1.2.3 No. of     APL1                                                                                   122        30           323         200        384              216
      science
  laboratories
  1.2.4 No. of     APL1                                                                                   22          4           61           38        76               43
teachers houses
  1.2.5 No. of     APL1                                                                                   33         10           122          76        138              85
     libraries
 1.2.6 No. of 5-   APL1                                                                                   315        91          1,306        801       1,570             905
    stance pit
 latrine blocks
  1.2.7 No. of     APL1                                                                                   237        227          768         449                         529
  10,000 litre
  RWH tanks
     installed
  1.2.8 No. of                                                                                            217        59           659         384        759              573
   beneficiary
      schools
   completed
 Component 2
        2.2.1      APL1                                 Contract     Not       Final             Not              Contract       Draft      Complete
 Infrastructure                                         signing    awarded   Report by         started              signed       Needs        d; and
       needs                                             by 29-               28-Feb-                             with M/S     Assessme     approved
   assessment                                             Oct-                 2011                               TECHNO       nt Report     by M&E
conducted for 2                                           2010                                                     LOGY        by 18-Jan-     WG on
 NTCs (Kabale                                                                                                     CONSUL          2013        18-Jul-
 and Mubende)                                                                                                      TS LTD                      2013



                                                                                  71
  Indicator        Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                      NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                  Source   Baseline         2009              2010                    2011                    2012                2013                          2014
                            2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual     Target          Actual    Target      Actual  Target      Actual          Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                 on 13-        Draft        Not                       Design
                                                                                                                Dec-2012      Design     completed                    Report
                                                                                                                             Report by                             completed;
                                                                                                                             29-Mar-                                    and
                                                                                                                               2013                                 approved
                                                                                                                                                                     by M&E
                                                                                                                                                                   WG on Feb-
                                                                                                                                                                       2014
                                                                                                                               Final        Not                    Final Report
                                                                                                                             Report by   completed                 expected to
                                                                                                                             23-Aug-                                     be
                                                                                                                               2013                                 submitted
                                                                                                                                                                   by 31-May-
                                                                                                                                                                       2014
2.3.1 Secondary   APL1                                 Contract     Not       Final            Not              Contract                 Consultati                Final Report
  TDMS Plan                                            signing    awarded   Report by        started              signed                   ons with                submitted;
   developed                                            by 02-              23-Dec-                             with M/S                 stakeholde                     and
                                                         Dec-                 2011                                HIFAB                       rs in                 approved
                                                         2010                                                   INTERN                    Kampala                    by M&E
                                                                                                                ATIONA                   completed                 WG on 08-
                                                                                                                   L AB                       Data                  Apr-2014
                                                                                                                (Sweden)                 collection,
                                                                                                                     in                  processing
                                                                                                                associatio                     and
                                                                                                                  n with                   analysis
                                                                                                                M/S CIEP                      done
                                                                                                                 (France)                  Optional
                                                                                                                  on 30-                 designs of
                                                                                                                Nov-2012                   STDMS
                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                            costing
                                                                                                                                          mechanis
                                                                                                                                                ms
                                                                                                                                          identified
                                                                                                                                           Review
                                                                                                                                             report
                                                                                                                                         submitted
                                                                                                                                              ; and
                                                                                                                                         approved
                                                                                                                                           by M&E



                                                                                 72
Indicator       Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                     NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
               Source   Baseline         2009              2010                   2011                    2012                2013                      2014
                         2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual    Target          Actual    Target      Actual  Target      Actual      Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                                    WG on
                                                                                                                                   18-Jun-
                                                                                                                                      2013
                                                                                                                                   STDMS
                                                                                                                                    concept
                                                                                                                                  presented
                                                                                                                                      ; and
                                                                                                                                  approved
                                                                                                                                   by M&E
                                                                                                                                       WG
2.5.1 No. of   APL1                                                     1,689,884        No                 2,000,723             Contract                     Deliveries
 textbooks                                                                           deliveries;            textbooks               signed                     on-going
  provided                                                                           Contracts               supplied              with M/S
                                                                                     signed on                  and                    MK
                                                                                      08-Aug-                delivered            PUBLISH
                                                                                     2011 with               to 1,559             ERS LTD
                                                                                        M/S                    USE                   on 24-
                                                                                     JOIBASO                  schools             Jun-2013
                                                                                     PUBLISH                                      for supply
                                                                                     ERS LTD;                                          and
                                                                                        MK                                         delivery
                                                                                     PUBLISH                                            of
                                                                                     ERS LTD;                                      950,884
                                                                                        AND                                       textbooks
                                                                                     MUKON                                             and
                                                                                         O                                          41,300
                                                                                     BOOKSH                                        teachers
                                                                                         OP                                        guides to
                                                                                     PRINTIN                                         1,559
                                                                                       G AND                                          USE
                                                                                     PUBLISH                                        schools
                                                                                      ING CO.                                        and 5
                                                                                        LTD                                          NTCs




                                                                             73
 Indicator      Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                   NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
               Source   Baseline         2009              2010                  2011                   2012                2013                        2014
                         2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual   Target          Actual   Target      Actual  Target      Actual        Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                                  Contract                     Deliveries
                                                                                                                                     signed                    on-going
                                                                                                                                   with M/S
                                                                                                                                  FOUNTA
                                                                                                                                       IN
                                                                                                                                  PUBLISH
                                                                                                                                  ERS LTD
                                                                                                                                     on 25-
                                                                                                                                  Jun-2013
                                                                                                                                  for supply
                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                    delivery
                                                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                    947,424
                                                                                                                                  textbooks
                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                     22,012
                                                                                                                                    teachers
                                                                                                                                   guides to
                                                                                                                                      1,559
                                                                                                                                      USE
                                                                                                                                    schools
                                                                                                                                      and 5
                                                                                                                                     NTCs
2.5.2 No. of   APL1                                                                                                     6,352          No                    Contract
bookshelves                                                                                                           metallic    Deliveries               signed with
 provided                                                                                                             lockable           ;                      M/S
                                                                                                                     bookshelv    Contract                 FABRICAT
                                                                                                                          es         signed                     ION
                                                                                                                     delivered     with M/S                 SYSTEMS
                                                                                                                       to 794     ZHEJIAN                  (U) LTD on
                                                                                                                        USE             G                    09-Jan-
                                                                                                                     Governme     HOLLEY                      2014 to
                                                                                                                     nt schools    INTERN                   supply and
                                                                                                                                  ATIONA                      deliver
                                                                                                                                        L                      1,424
                                                                                                                                  COMPAN                   bookshelves
                                                                                                                                  Y LTD on                     to 178
                                                                                                                                    18-Dec-                 schools in
                                                                                                                                    2013 to                   Central




                                                                            74
Indicator       Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                    NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
               Source   Baseline         2009              2010                   2011                   2012                2013                       2014
                         2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual    Target          Actual   Target      Actual  Target      Actual       Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                                    supply                   Uganda;
                                                                                                                                      and                  Deliveries
                                                                                                                                    deliver                 are yet to
                                                                                                                                     4,928                 commence
                                                                                                                                 bookshelv
                                                                                                                                  es to 616
                                                                                                                                     USE
                                                                                                                                 schools in
                                                                                                                                  Eastern,
                                                                                                                                  Northern
                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                  Western
                                                                                                                                  Uganda;
                                                                                                                                 Deliveries
                                                                                                                                 are yet to
                                                                                                                                 commenc
                                                                                                                                        e
2.5.3 No. of   APL1                                                       6,260                              4,791               Contract                   Deliveries
science kits                                                             science                            science                 signed                   of extra
 provided                                                                  kits                               kits                with M/S                 science kits
                                                                        supplied                           supplied               LUCKY                    expected to
                                                                           and                                and                EXPORT                    commence
                                                                        delivered                          delivered             S on ... to                 in May
                                                                        to 1,252                           to 1,253                 supply                    2014
                                                                          USE                                USE                  424 extra
                                                                         schools                            schools                science
                                                                                                                                 kits to 109
                                                                                                                                     USE
                                                                                                                                   schools
                                                                                                                                      that
                                                                                                                                 missed in
                                                                                                                                   the first
                                                                                                                                 procureme
                                                                                                                                 nt while 6
                                                                                                                                 kits are to
                                                                                                                                       be
                                                                                                                                  supplied
                                                                                                                                      to 3
                                                                                                                                    NTCs;
                                                                                                                                 Deliveries




                                                                             75
  Indicator         Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                         NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                   Source   Baseline         2009              2010                     2011                      2012                2013                     2014
                             2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual      Target          Actual      Target      Actual  Target      Actual     Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                                           not yet
                                                                                                                                          commenc
                                                                                                                                             ed
  2.5.4 No. of     APL1                                                           6,260                                   5,113
 chemical kits                                                                 chemical                                 chemical
   provided                                                                        kits                                    kits
                                                                                supplied                                supplied
                                                                                   and                                     and
                                                                               delivered                                delivered
                                                                                to 1,252                                to 1,362
                                                                                  USE                                     USE
                                                                                 schools                                 schools
  2.6.1 No. of     APL1                                                            650           0            1,300         0                0                     Training of
 HTs, D/HTs                                                                     officials                   officials                                                 922
 and Teachers                                                                 (150 Head                   (300 Head                                               Headteacher
     trained                                                                   teachers /                  teachers /                                                   s
                                                                               Deputies                    Deputies                                               commenced
                                                                                and 500                   and 1,000                                               on 28-Apr-
                                                                               teachers)                   teachers)                                                2014 and
                                                                                 trained                     trained                                               expected to
                                                                                                                                                                   end in Jul-
                                                                                                                                                                      2014
 Component 3
  3.1.1 Study      APL1                                                        TEVT         Complete
report on skills                                                               Report          d
  and TEVT
  3.2.2 Study      APL1                                                        Upper        Complete
report on upper                                                                 Sec.           d
   secondary                                                                   Report
      3.3.1        APL1                 UNEB     Not yet          Contract                  Installatio                   Optical         Contract                Delivery of
 Equipment for                         equippe   awarded            signed                     n of                       Marker            signed                  printery
     UNEB                                 d                       with M/S                  servers &                     Reader          with M/S                expected in
    provided                                                      Computer                  computers                    supplied         TYPOTE                   June 2014
                                                                   Point on                 complete                        and               CH
                                                                   28-Aug-                   d on 16-                   installed         IMAGIN
                                                                     2010;                  Mar-2011                    on 12-Jul-             G
                                                                    servers                                                2012           SYSTEM
                                                                      and                                                                 S LTD on
                                                                  computers                                                                23-Dec-
                                                                   supplied                                                                2013 for



                                                                                    76
  Indicator         Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                          NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                   Source   Baseline         2009              2010                         2011                   2012                2013                       2014
                             2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual          Target          Actual   Target      Actual  Target      Actual       Target          Actual24

                                                                          and                                                                supply,
                                                                       delivered                                                            delivery
                                                                        on 23-                                                                 and
                                                                       Nov-2010                                                            installatio
                                                                                                                                               n of
                                                                                                                                            printery;
                                                                                                                                            Delivery
                                                                                                                                            yet to be
                                                                                                                                              made
3.3.4 Enhanced     EMIS                 Needs        Not                  Not                                                                 Needs
data collection                        identifie   started              started                                                            identificat
 of EMIS core                          d by Feb                                                                                                ion
   indicators                             09                                                                                               complete
                                                                                                                                                d
                                       Support       Not                  Not                                                              Financing
                                       modaliti    started              started                                                              options
                                           es                                                                                                agreed
                                       identifie
                                       d by Feb
                                           09
                                        Costed       Not                  Not                                                                                          Proposal
                                          plan     started              started                                                                                       submitted
                                         with                                                                                                                         by AGILE
                                       timeline                                                                                                                       LEARNIN
                                            s                                                                                                                           G and
                                       develop                                                                                                                        approved
                                         ed by                                                                                                                         by WB;
                                        Jun 09                                                                                                                       Contract yet
                                                                                                                                                                     to be signed
                                                                                                                                                                          for
                                                                                                                                                                     implementat
                                                                                                                                                                          ion
3.3.2 Report on    APL1                                      Study        Not                                           Final
    flow and                                                 Report     started                                        Report
  utilisation of                                                                                                      complete
USE capitation                                                                                                        d in Dec-
      funds                                                                                                             2012
       3.3.3       APL1                                        PPP                                                      Draft
  Assessment                                                 Assessm                                                   Report
 report on PPP                                                 ent                                                   submitted;



                                                                                       77
   Indicator         Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                          NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
                    Source   Baseline         2009              2010                       2011                     2012                2013                               2014
                              2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual        Target          Actual     Target      Actual  Target      Actual               Target          Actual24

                                                          Report                                                           Not yet
                                                                                                                          approved
      3.3.4         APL1                                  Double                                                            Draft
   Evaluation                                               Shift                                                          Report
    report on                                             Evaluati                                                       submitted;
 review of 1st                                               on                                                            Not yet
phase of double                                            Report                                                         approved
shift instruction
      3.3.5         APL1                                                         Evaluatio          Not                     Not                     Request                   RFP not yet
   Evaluation                                                                    n Report         started                 started                       for                     issued
Report of phase                                                                                                                                    Expressio
  I of UPPET                                                                                                                                            n of
     reforms                                                                                                                                         Interest
                                                                                                                                                   (EOI) was
                                                                                                                                                   advertised
                                                                                                                                                      on 05-
                                                                                                                                                   Dec-2013
                                                                                                                                                      (New
                                                                                                                                                     Vision
                                                                                                                                                   newspaper
                                                                                                                                                       ) and
                                                                                                                                                   closed on
                                                                                                                                                    23-Dec-
                                                                                                                                                      2013.
                                                                                                                                                   Evaluatio
                                                                                                                                                    n of the
                                                                                                                                                   submitted
                                                                                                                                                    EOIs on-
                                                                                                                                                      going
3.3.6 Fiduciary     APL1                                 Auditor        Not       Auditor     Submitte       Auditor     Submitte      Auditor     Submitte       Auditor         Audit not
     audits                                              General     submitted   General to      d          General to      d         General to         d       General to          yet
 (procurement                                               to                    submit                     submit                    submit                      submit         conducted
 and financial                                            submit                 Report for                 Report for                Report for                 Report for
 management)                                              Report                   Year                       Year                      Year                    Year Ended
                                                         for Year                Ended 30-                  Ended 30-                 Ended 30-                 30-Jun-2014
                                                          Ended                  Jun-2011                   Jun-2012                  Jun-2013                   by 31-Dec-
                                                         30-Jun-                  by 31-                     by 31-                    by 31-                       2014
                                                         2010 by                 Dec-2011                   Dec-2012                  Dec-2013
                                                         31-Dec-
                                                           2010



                                                                                       78
 Indicator      Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                         NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
               Source   Baseline         2009              2010                       2011                    2012                2013                   2014
                         2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual        Target          Actual    Target      Actual  Target      Actual   Target          Actual24

                                                                                                                     In-depth
                                                                                                                     Financial
                                                                                                                    Managem
                                                                                                                         ent
                                                                                                                      Review
                                                                                                                    Report by
                                                                                                                         WB
                                                                                                                    submitted
                                                                                                                      in Nov-
                                                                                                                        2012
                                                                                                                     1st Round                               2nd Round
                                                                                                                       School                                 School
                                                                                                                       Based                                   Based
                                                                                                                    Procurem                                Procuremen
                                                                                                                     ent Audit                                t Audit
                                                                                                                       Report                                cancelled
                                                                                                                    submitted
                                                                                                                      in Dec-
                                                                                                                        2012
    3.3.7                                              1,519    Complete      3,094       Complete        700       Complete
Strengthened                                        officials   d between    officials    d between     officials   d between
management                                             from      16 – 22    from 442        8 – 25     from 100       20 – 26
 capacity of                                            217     Aug 2010     schools      May 2011      schools     Aug 2012
 MOES and                                            schools                 trained                    trained
   schools                                           trained                (phase II)                (phase III)
                                                      (phase
                                                         I)
                                                        217     Complete         442      Complete        100       Complete
                                                      school       d        school site      d        school site      d
                                                        site                   layout                   layout
                                                      layout                    plans                    plans
                                                       plans                developed                 developed
                                                     develop                 (phase II)               (phase III)
                                                         ed
                                                      (phase
                                                         I)
                                                     Project    Complete      Project     Complete      Project     Complete
                                                    impleme        d        implement        d        implement        d
                                                     ntation                   ation                     ation
                                                    guidelin                guidelines                guidelines



                                                                                  79
Indicator    Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                           NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
            Source   Baseline         2009              2010                        2011                     2012                2013                                 2014
                      2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual         Target          Actual     Target      Actual  Target      Actual                Target           Actual24

                                                  es and                      and                         and
                                                 handboo                  handbook                   handbook
                                                     ks                         s                          s
                                                 distribut                distributed                distributed
                                                   ed to                    to 442                      to 100
                                                    217                    schools                     schools
                                                 schools                  (phase II)                 (phase III)
                                                  (phase
                                                     I)
                                                 Commu       Complete          4        Contracts         4           Not                    Contracts
                                                 nication       d         Technical     signed on    additional    recruited                   signed
                                                    and                   Supervisio    Mar-2011     engineers                               with the 4
                                                 Advoca                    n Firms                    recruited                              engineers
                                                     cy                    (TSFs)                    for CMU                                   on 18-
                                                 Strategy                  hired to                     and 1                                Mar-2013
                                                 in place                 supervise                    Project                                   and
                                                                             civil                   Accounta                                  project
                                                                            works                         nt                                 accountan
                                                                                                      recruited                               t on 22-
                                                                                                                                             Feb-2013
                                                     4       4 Ministry   4 Ministry    4 Ministry   4 Ministry    4 Ministry   4 Ministry   4 Ministry    4 Ministry        4 Ministry
                                                 Ministry       staff         staff        staff         staff        staff         staff       staff     staff trained         staff
                                                   staff      trained       trained      trained       trained      trained       trained     trained                         trained
                                                 trained                    (CPD)                      (CPD)
                                                  (CPD)
                                                     4       4 Vehicles                                  2           Not                     Procured
                                                 Vehicles    procured                                additional    procured                     and
                                                 procure                                              vehicles                               delivered
                                                   d for                                              procured
                                                  CMU                                                for CMU
                                                   and
                                                   PCU
                                                                                                        Supply       Not                     Procured
                                                                                                          and      procured                     and
                                                                                                       delivery                              delivered
                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                     computers
                                                                                                      , laptops,
                                                                                                      cameras,
                                                                                                       printers



                                                                                80
Indicator    Data               OLD EMIS DATA REGIME                                                    NEW EMIS DATA REGIME
            Source   Baseline         2009              2010                  2011                    2012                2013                       2014
                      2008      Target    Actual Target     Actual   Target          Actual    Target      Actual  Target      Actual       Target          Actual24

                                                                                              for CMU




                                                                                               45 smart       Not             Procured
                                                                                                phones      procured              and
                                                                                               procured                       distributed
                                                                                               for GPS                         in Aug-
                                                                                              monitorin                          2013
                                                                                               g of civil
                                                                                                works
                                                                                                 Web-        Not set           Web site
                                                                                                 based        up              launched
                                                                                                 GPS                           in Aug-
                                                                                              system for                         2013
                                                                                              monitorin
                                                                                               g of civil
                                                                                               works set
                                                                                                  up




                                                                         81
82
