Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL UZE ONLY
Rbpqwt ? 8960
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FWD PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-BO)
AUGUST 14, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
his document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ondy In the perfonnane of
their offical dudte  Its contents may not othewise be disclsd withont Wodd BDank authorization.



TiE WORLD SANKTO& OMfCIAL USE. ONLY
*Wau8w"tonO.C. X033
USA
se d 1_nwC.w
August 14, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Bolivia
National Mineral Exploration Fund Project
(Credit 940-3O0
Attached, for information,  is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Bolivia - National Mineral
Exploration Fund Project (Credit 940-BO)" prepared by the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office.   No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
Us d-auMs ha'a mused diUiuaas am be aed by mwsn only n lb pe mm.ce
Of1 thw cal d   uIn =Bfinu may am otwiw be diaed whout Wod  f *I



CS   COHPLZOM RPORT
BOLIVU-
NATIONAL KIUZEL    WL  PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-BO)
TAIL  OF CONTETS
Pale 1o.
Preface *.*.**..**.......*....*.*****.............*.                          1
asic Data Shoet ........................                                     ii
Highlights ..........................................................    iv
3.    Project Idestity ........................................1. 
2.    Backgrouad ..................... *.......................               1
3.    Project Design  .....................                                   2
4.    Project Objectives, Description and Organization .........              3
5.    Project Implementation and Revision/Cancellation .........              5
6.    Project Results ..........................................              7
7.    Proet Sustainability .......................................            8
S.    IDA Performance ......80.. 
9.    Borrower Performance .....................................              9
10.   Project Relations ...           .....................................  10
11.   Consulting Services ...*           ..................................  10
12.   Project Documentation and Data ..........................              10
SMME
1.    Project Costs .......................                                  11
2.    Project Financing .        . . .          .......      *12
3.    Status of Covenants              . ................    13
4.    Comments on PCR - Government .............................    15
5.    Cosnents on PCR - PONEMI .                                             18
6.    IDA's Review of Comments from Government
and FONDM  ...  *# .......*t*...........                              29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-BO)
PREFACE
1.        This report reviews the performance of IDA's National
Mineral Exploration Fund Project (Credit 940-BO) made to the
Government of Bolivia for onlending to the National Mineral
Exploration Fund (FONEM). The Credit, in the amount of US$7.5
million, was intended to develop a capability to execute adequate
mineral exploration in Bolivia. The project was appraised in May
1978, approved by the Board of Executive Directors in June 1979,
and declared effective in January 1980. Following three extensions
of the original closing date of June 30, 1983, the project was
revised in early 1987, and subsequently cancelled in July 18, 1988,
with an undisbursed balance of US$3,657,485.45 also cancelled as
of the same date.
2.        This report is based on the data obtained during the IDA
mission to Bolivia in June 1988.  It reviews the progress made
towards achievement of the Credit's direct and sectoral objectives.
For this purpose, it examines the original objectives and
configuration of the project, and focuses on the factors that
affected performance, and on the considerable variance between
project objectives and results.
3.        In accordance with the revised procedures for project
performance audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was
read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), but the project
was not audited by OED staff. OED sent copies of the draft report
to the Borrower for comments.   The comments received from tYhe
Ministry of Planning and Coordination and from FONEM have been
taken into account in preparing the final report and they are
reproduced as Annexes to the Report.



1± -
BOLIVA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(CRE=  940-RO
BASIC DATA SHEE
DU IRw3CI DAT
ActuWl or             Actual as I of
Is                                                  carumt _atiato          Anuraisal lbetUate
Total Ptoject Costs (ls$ milliof)                 16.45                14.51                      88.2
Creit but (Us$ ualii)                              7.5                  3.7                       49.3
Cafimakaing-Total (1$  illion)                     9.0                 10.8                      120.0
0.5                  0.5                      100.0
TZz                                            3.8                  3.8                      100.0
Date Physical Co     et  omplted                  12WU                  6188                      N.A.
ia   t.d by that date (2)           100                   49                        49
_oo~.c late of leturn                            18-25        Ieb tive                           N.A.
lastitwtiseal Perfoau.ece                     Satsfactowy           Unsatisfactory                N.A.
CMWULTIV  =SlMMK  AJD AM&nm   DISBWI5al  T
flU   MI l        P8 na3  fY84  MlS  PY86 fill  FY88
Apprais"l EstSmte (Us1$ slt"lon)                     1.2   2.8   5.6   7.5               -        -
Actual (Us$ dilUion)                                  0     0    0.4   1.0   1.4   1.5   1.8   2.2   3.8
Actual as I of Appraisal (2)                          0     0    7.1  13.3  18.7  20.0  24.0  29.3  50.7
Date of Final ,Disbursemeats July 18, 1988
,PROEC DA155
OrIginalfnuioct
Tirmt Mention In Fll*s                     07/7 n                         07177
Negotiations                               05/79               *          05/79
Bard Approval                              06/79               .          06/79
SigLing (Credit Agrement Date)             07/79                          07/79
Effectiveness                              10/79               -          01180
Closing Date                               06/83               .          12/87



- IL 
Wi ma ma na me
Ide~mt t m fIeaIeu2 /5 86} o
tS   4.3  6.5    4.4                                                          M20.4
52.9  23.8  92.1                                                                168.8
117    '    19.0                                                               20.7
-    -    11.9  23.6  22.1  5.1   2.4  10.6  0.9   1.5  5.9   3.0                9f.0
-  -  - - _0.3 6.6                 -IL6
Sttbtotal   6".I 30.3  127.4  23.6  U2.1  5.1  2.4  10.6  8.9    1.5  10.1  3.1  0.3  311.5
Date      go. of                     Perfon                 Tys of
um.lnM.)   Person       e    2ed         Jjt.        Trend Poroble
Identlfication/Preparaticn       07177       3             ml I            *           _        _
AppraIsal                        04178       3            R, I                         - 
Y wet-ApraIsal                   01/79       4          3, I, L, 0          -           -        -
SupewIsJlon     1                 04180       3         3, Y, a           313           3    It t, N
SuwpervIsIon    11               02/81       3          N, Y, L           3/1           1    F, T, M
SupervIsion  III                 06a81       2             a, 1           2/2           2    3, T
Supe rIio       V n               04/82       1            3              312           2    M, t
Suervlslv       V                 08/83       2            3, Y           3/2           2    N, T
SupervISon   VI                   04/84      2             3, 1           N.A.          2    M, T
Spetvisio   VII                   07/86      3             3, 1           N.A.               M 3, T
Supervstion  VuII                 11/84      3         N, Ft a            2/2                 N. A.
SupervIsimo    1                 06/87      N.A.           B. A.       213. 3/3         -     . A.
Supervisio    K                  11/87      3         N, Y, a            N.A.         -      . A.
Completio                        06/8a       2             3, P            -            -      -
OlEgR PRJKCT DATA
Borrowers           Gbaerement of Bolivia
Executing Asnciess National Niarea Exploration Fund (FONUf)
lolllw-ft Pro1Lects:s No



- lv -
PIJC  COXPUTISOB 3310a?
I3IUSLZC 0  BOLIVL
NATIONAL IBM& -aL  LORATION MOS PROJEC
CUIIT 940-30
HGH6LIGHTS
1.        In order to sustain the amentus achieved undet the first three
lending operations (Credits 455-.0, 1290-50 and 1331-50) to a*ssist the Mining
Sector, ID continued its support to the sector through a fourth project
(Credit 940-50) for US$7.5 million, which vas declared effective in early
19*0. This report addresses the results of this credit, focusing also on the
doevlopmets that took place In POU1's operations, and on WDA's strategy and
role during project implemntation.
a.        Building upon the progress of the earlier credits, the fourth
credit was devised to establish adequate capability to execute mineral
exploration In Bolivia. This activity had been recognised for many years as
crucial for turning around the progressive depletion of minable ore reserves,
In light of Bolivia's long tradition as a mineral producer, the Importance
of mining In its economy, and the wall recoganied potential for developing
fsuther miseral deposits.  Accordingly, the project aimed at filling a
critical gap in the sector by assisting to develop IOND! into a financing
organization for mineral explo ation that woulds i) function with operational
procedures of international standards; i) provide credits to execute mineral
exploration sub-projects and delineate or reserves in stages, on the basis
of Its assessmnts during each phase, but vithout imposing collateral
requirements on miners; and iii) obtain repayment only if deposits viable for
mianng wert established, through a -royalty on output as mine development
attained the production stage. With this approach, the project was designed
to finance 1OMM3's 4-year operation prograa for 1979-82.
3.        Overall, the project did not meet its objective of developing ONEK
into a financing institution of international standards for mineral
eploration. It beca_  clear d-ring implemeatation that project preparation
studies and subsequent designs were excessively optimistic and did not
anticipate several factors responsible for poor performance. These includeds
i) deficiencies in the procedures and criterci for selecting exploration sub-
projects.  and  for taking  corrective  action  based  an  feed-back  from
operations; ii) reluctance on cost grounds to use consultant services funded
by IDA; and iii) extensive use of local consultants who lacked adequate know-
bow and experience in designing and executing exploration programs. These
issues  wer  compounded by a notable divergence in IDA's role.  This was
originally aimd at funding technical assistance, exploration work, and
procureent of equipment, but instead IDA served mainly to fund equipment,
rather than exploration, with virtually no input from DA in financing modern



- v -
tehciqes for managent and exploration.  Additianally, performce was
also affected by external factors that could not reasonably be anticipated
duoing projoct desgl.  hese included, i) the country's economic crisis, La
the first hlf of te 1980's,  hilch affected the Government's contribution*
as wvl  as the costs of goods and services provided by  ONDE. end made miners
reluctant to accept foreign zexange risks on credits denominated in US
Dollars for exploratio and equipments and 11) the depressed situation of
International mtal prices, which reduced the potential of certain
exploration sub-projects, and diminished the Interest of mine owners. This
resulted In lengthy negotiations to executo further exploration of sub-
projects already nder study.  The main consequne was that the project
becam  focused oan deloping ore resrve at already existing properties,
Instead of concentrating an exploratio  to devlop new ventures,.
4.        Plannd  and  Implemented activities under the project  showed
significant variance. Initially, disagreemets developed with IDA oan i) the
use of foreign consultants; i1) the approval of exploration proposals and
Inclusion of pilot plants not allowed in the Project Agreement; iii) the use
of standards and criteria to solect and evaluate exploration sub-projects;
and iv) the procurement of equipmeat under IDA guidelines, which was affected
by Inordinate delays to obtain  local clearances.   Due to changes in
managemet, the main conflicts were resolved  in early  1981, with  t
exception of services from foreign consultants. Rowener, additional delays
evolved frao slippages in granting credits to mine owners and from numerous
possibilities for extensive litigation. The slippages were maily due tot
O) the prototpen nature of the project; and ii) the pipeline desigm of sub-
projects which reflected optimism of POMI and initial eagerness of mine
owners.  The complications with mine owners arose from the lack of past
experience in negotiating credits for the more advanced stages of
exploration, vhich was affected and prolonged by low metal prices, rising
Inflation, disagreements on royalties and efforts to declare partial success
of several sub-projects, without concluding all phases of exploration, and
basing royalties on still small ore reerves.
5.        The delays and difficulties ultimately resulted in the cancellation
of the project in 1968.  This was preceded by three extensions of IDA's
credit original closing date of June 30, 1983, as well as the project's
revision in early 1987, which were based on the still experimental/pilot
nature of FO1N0 , the critical need for exploration in Bolivia, and the
improving economic perspectives of the coutry. However, these actions did
not result ia significant Increases of disbursements. Their effectiveness
was  ullified by the persistence of difficulties mentioned above, which
caused the temmination of the project and cancelling of its undisbursed
balance of U5$3,57,48S.45 as of July 18, 1988.
6.        Over a period of 8.5 years of IDA's project implementation, only
one ezploration sub-project funded by the project was successful, five were
declared partial successes, and three prospects remained under exploration.
For this, a total of 531 general surveys were executed, which resulted in
more advanced exploration of 23 prospects under project funding, and of 26
prospects with funds from OM33 or bilateral assistance. Such results



- vi. -
ndiscated that the project vould howm adverse rats  of retur  and could not
o"eate an a self rplenishlng basis.   aowee, it was recognsed that this
capablity could change if a major discovery was made (which becam  less and
less Ikely after nearly a decade of exploration), and from eventual results
fta      appatent shift In emphasis from tin to gold and zincIleadisilver
prospects. Uhe probabilities of such an outcom would be favored by reducing
risks inerent to exploration, through technical strengthening, and adequate
Improveme nt of operational procedures as well as technical and negotiating
capabilities.
7.        During the  cycle, the project was supported by the Government,
which performed in a generally satisfactory manner during preparation and
implehentation, excepting Initial delays in providing its contributions.
IOND s perfoamance was also satisfactory during preparation, but during
implwnntation it vas affected by the mentioned initial lack of funds, and
by the combined effects from being a new institution, and attempting to
execute a complex project of a prototype nature. In general, IDA provided
positive and constructive contributions, and supplied considerable guidance
and input throughout project execution. IDA's relationship vith the involved
state agencies was very good, and addressed constructively project issues.
This was also the case with FONt. with the single *exception of project
initiation, when divergent views  emrged on the use of foreign consultsEs
and certain operational approaches.
8.        The main lessons of experience for preparation and implomentation
of other exploration funds are the need to establish: i) a core of highly
qualified and experienced staff; II) satisfactory collection and management
of funds; 111) procureament procedures which are consistent with local
pgocurement regulations; and iv) integration of interests between the fund
and the mine owners, possibly through some kind of partnership or device
aimed at equitable sharing of risks, while ensuring commitment to explore
sub-projects.



PkoJECT COILETZON 83O0T
3EPILLC Of BOLIVIA
noStIOAL lINiRAL EXPLOIATION FMND PIOJECT
(CREDIT 940.30)
1.          Proioct Identitys
Project  ame - National Mineral Exploration Fund Project
Credit No.   - 940-30
LVP Unit     - Latin America
Country      - Bolivia
Sector       . Mining
Sub-sector   - Metal Mining
2.          Background
2.01        Mining has traditionally been a main factor in the economy of Bolivia.
With the exception of hydrocarbons, between 1968-77, the mining sector contributed
on average 9 percent of CDP, and 68 porcent of export earnings. Hore rtent2Ly
these have fallen substantially and reached 4 percent of CDP, and 37 percent of
export earnians in 1987, reflecting fluctuations in international metal jrices,
and a steady decline in the production of the country's main minerals. This trend
ensued from insufficient investments at its largost mines, and decades without
significant financing for exploration, which resulted in progressive depletion of
ore resorves, eacorbated by lack of meaningful exploration since the 1940's.
1.02        Bolivia's producers art i) the Corporation Minera de Bolivia (COMIBOL),
which is fully state owned and responsible for operating the country's largest
mining complexes, including concentrator plants and a smlters ii) about 19 medium
sized privately-owned firms, remaining from 30 in the early 1980's; and iii) about
2,000-3,000  small mines, which  are  operated  either  privately  or  through
cooperatives.   These producers and the country's sectoral institutions have
benefited from five Bank Group lending operations to support the mining sector.
The first one, ID Credit 455-BO approved in 1974, included financing for a
feasibility study for a mineral exploration fund, to increase exploration and
support further sectoral growth,  as recommended in the Bank' s   Mining and
Metallurgical Sector report of 1972. The feasibility report was prepared in 1975-
76, by the US Geological Survey, and was revised and expanded by the Ministerio
de Minas y Metalurgil (6OM) in 197G, with furthar analysis of the technical,
financial and administrative design aspects, which served as the basis to create
a mineral fund.
2.03        The foundation of the National Mineral Exploration Fund (FONEM) which
was created in 1977 to initiate mineral exploration and prospection activities,
illustrated the Government's appreciation of the importance of identifying new
ore reserves. Piscal budgetary support assigned to exploration and prospection
activities of FONEK were supplemental to those of the Servicio Geologico de Bolivia
(GEOBOL), COMI¢OL and the Comision Bolivian& de Energia Nuclear (COBOEN), and were
in line with the high priority assigned by the Governmnt to the identification of
new and higher grade ore reserves in order to diversify and increase the production
of minerals in Bolivia.



2
3.          Projset Design
3.01       fte conceptual foundations  for the project  and  its design vere
extensively aalyzed following the Sank's recomendation to study an exploration
fund. in 1972. Ligt. the bintial feasibility studies, prepared in 1975-76, by
the US Geological Survey and the MM supported the fund concept, and provided the
general fsaierk for its establishment in April 1977. Second, substantial design
Improvements vere introduced betwee Noveabor 1977 and January 1979, by simulating
exploration activities under the project, on the basis of different sizes of
deposits and assumptions concerning its pipe-line of prospects.  This was done
with assistance from a consultant from Soc. Quebeq. d'Explor. Min. (SOQUEM -
Canadian fund) . It determined the composition of the operations program, by
customizing the operations of FOI4M to the particular conditions of Bolivia, basing
the scope and scale of project objectives ont i) systematic analysis of the
spectrum of sizes and characteristics of likely exploration sub-projects; ii)
standards &ad criteria to be applied for evaluating ezploration sub-projects. iii)
replenishment of the fund through royalty payments, and iv) different levels of
fund size.
3.02        The project's design aimed at filling a critical gap in the sector,
with a view to benefitting a sinificant number of mine owners.   These were
attracted to FON5 because: i) ?ONEM constituted a unique source of credits )r
mineral exploration in Bolivia; and ii) ONEK's credits were for the execution Yf
exploration and definition of ore reserves based on its progressive assessments
of mineral deposits during stages A-D of exploration, but without collateral
requirements imposed as a lending requisite;
3.03        The project concept was highly innovative in Bolivia, and to a certain
extent also interationally. At the time of appraisal, exploration funds had
shown wide variations in approach and success. They still constituted relatively
novel developments which had merged during the past two decades, mostly under
the sponsorship of governments and international agencies, through multilateral
or bilateral assistance programs. They originated mainly as efforts to counteract
the impact of declining ezpenditures for exploration in developing countries, due
to the combined effects of decreasing profitability in mining, increasing
exploration costs, political risks, and the uncertainties inherent to exploration.
3.04        The main innovative feature of the FONEK lending program consisted in
providing credits for exploration, phased in stages A-D (para 4.02), to be repaid
only if deposits viable for mining were established. This entailed repayment by
an a percent annual royalty on total mine output, when it had been developed and
reached production stage.  The reimbursement mechanism included total repayment
of not less than 2 times the exploration costs of yONEM, and interest of 10 percent
on the outstanding balance of this cost. While repaying FONE0, the mine owners
were exempted from paying mineral production royalties to the Government. Finally.
as stated in the SAR, PONM was still in the early stage of operation, and the need
for changes in its operating procedures were envisaged once experience with from
sufficient exploration work was gained. The innovative design of the project, and
its yet to be proven execution arrangements led IDA to split the credit into two
tranches.  Proceeding with the second tranche depended on IDA's assessment of
project performance and whether its purposes could be accomplished. following
exchanges of views with PONEK and the Government, after 18 months of credit
effectiveness or the commitment of US$3.5 million, whichever came first.
3.05        In early 1979, the conceptual basis of the  ONEH project had been
fully conveyed to all relevant parties.   Mine owners and cooperatives were



3
enthusiastic about its approach and imninent execution. Project preparation was
exteasive, and tIplemetation was considered to Oe urgent in view of the
progressive depletion of minable ore reserves and declining trends of mineral
production. The Government hads i) assessed the economic need and finaucial
requiresents for pOND(; ii) supported the need to promote exploration work; iii)
accepted the requirements of initial fiscal support to develop a revolving fund
project, which would ultimately sustain a stable level of exploration with
royalties from successful sub-projects; and iv) confirmed its desire to allow
PONDM to operate as an indepetdent state entity.
4.          Pro4ect Obiectives, Description and Organization
4.01        Proiect Objectives.  The main objective of the project was to develop
a capability to execute adequate mineral exploration in Bolivia. by turning FONEM
into a capable financing institution for mineral exploration, operating
autoncomusly, and using satisfactory procedures in orde: to help reverse the trend
of declinilg minable ore reserves, in what is recognized as a potentially mineral-
rich country.  Accordingly, FONEK was created to provide needed financing for
prospection and exploration, and planning assistance for development of mineral
resources in Bolivia. Decree No.14549 defined its duties in exploration. These
includeds i) giving credit to public or private entities, for executing iineral
exploration projects; ii) supervising and evaluating the technical, financial and
administrative aspects of exploration projects financed by FONED; and Wii) helping
raise the financing to implement mining projects of demonstrated feasibi?ity Vy
preparing and presenting them to local and international sources of financing.
It also authorized FOND! to reinvest in additional prospection and exploration
projects, the funds it recovered, from its investments in earlier exploration sub-
projects.
4.02        Proiect Descrivtion. The project selected for IDA funding was designed
to finance FONDKs entire 4-year operations program for 1979-82.  This program
encompassed the execution oft i) general surveys (stage A) of 160 prospects
considered proisaing for more advanced exploration; ii) preliminary sampling and
studies (stage B) of 25 selected prospects; iii) detailed reserve evaluations
(stage C) of a prospects; and iv) feasibility studies (stage D) of 5 prospects.
A main feature of this program. which was attractive to mine owners, was FONEM's
exploration approach aimed at leveloping ore reserves while carrying out mine
preparation work.  This permits development along mineralized structures, thus
helping to generate early production and revenue. It is an effective 'pproach in
small narrow vein type deposits typical of Bolivia, where c-stly drilling is not
justified.
4 03        Plams indicated in the SAR to implement the project's program of
exploration includeds 1) the execution of stage A (general surveys) of vein type
deposits by FOND! staff; ii) the execution of stage A of alluvial type prospects
vith the assistance of consultants due to lack of in-house expertise; iii) the
undertaking of stages 5-D with consultants, contractors (including mine owners
where appropriate) and laboratories hired by FONED; and iv) the undertaking of
all supervision and coordination of contracts and exploration sub-projects with
staff of FONE.   To implement these plans, IDA provided funding for: agreed
exploration equipment and materials, contracts to execute the works, and technical
assistance and training from qualified foreign consultants for strengthening the
in-house skills of FONEM. Additionally, the implementation plans also entailed
using French and German technical assistance, consisting of the provision of
equipment, geologists, engineers and mineral processing experts.



4
4*04        Th. total cost of the above metioned proS8m ws  estimated during
appraisal at US$16.5 million. its fiantcing plan consisted of US$7.9 million of
debt and US$8.6 million of equity. The former included the IDA Credit of USS7.5
million, and a balance of US$0.4 &AllLon undisbursed from Central Bank loans
approved  In  1977.79.    The  equity  Included  US$4.3  million  in  Government
contributions, and WS$4.3 in bilateral grants.   The Government funds had been
comditted by decree in 1977, assigning at least US$1.2 million annually to FONEM
over 10 years, starting in 1978. During project appraisal this contribution was
assigned in equal parts for exploration sub-projects, and for salaries and other
administrative expenses.
4.03        Protect Organization.  The project was executed as part of FONM'.
exploration activities. These remained entirely under the responsibility of its
managment, which can be characterized as generally autonowous in nature.  In
addition to providing policy input and supervision, its Board met monthly to review
decisions or recomendations of its General ManAger on: I) prospection, exploration
and service contracts; Li) rejection or postponement of decisions oan specific
applications for financing exploration sub-projects; and iii) contracts to purchase
goods of value exceeding US$30,000.  Overall, the project and FOID  benefited from
continued Goverment support and minimal political interference, despite being
fully state owned and responsible to the M)O.   This support enhanced _k  its
corporate form as a public development enterprise, was backed by the structure of
its Board, which included the Minister of Hines and Metallurgy and representatives
from the President of Bolivia, the Ministries of Planning and Finance, Banco Minero
(BAMIN) and GEOBOL.   This structure facilitated FONEK's operations, and its
relations with other sector institutions, which helped to: i) raise, expedite and
coordinate the handling of main issues, where other agencies were involved, such
as when processing Government contributions and contract approvals; and ii) ensure
constructive commitment from Government institutions and agencies.
4.06        Retrgosective Vlew.  Looking back, insufficient scrutiny was given
during project design to a number of aspects that later resulted in poor
performance. The extensive studies used for planning and designing FONEM were
unduly optimistic, as indicated below in Section 5, and did not anticipate the
disastrous impacts on the project, from several factors such as: i) the procedures
and criteri required for project selection, which were not analyzed adequately
or corrected later by trying to reformulate them, on the basis of the experience
gained from operations; and ii) the reluctance to use the consultant services
funded by IDA (par& 5.01), on the grounds that they were found to be too expensive
by PONDI, who ongaged local consultants. which were well qualified for ongoing
mining activities within the sector, but lacked the know-how and experience to
formulate and execute exploration programs. Additionally, FONEM's operations were
severely ipacted by external factors, that could hardly have been anticipated
during project design (pars S..04). These materialized over the first half of the
1980's, and Included: I) the major decay in the Bolivian economy, and its resulting
impact on the Government's contributions and the costs of goods and services to
FONEM; and II) the adverse effect in metal prices, resulting from the recession in
the United States and trends in the world economy, which diminished the potential
of certain exploration sub-projects that entered the more advanced stages C-D in
the aid-1980's. The depressed prices adversely affected the interest initially
received from mine owners when international prices were attractive, and resulted
in protracted negotiations for carrying out further stages of exploration in sub-
projects already underway.



4.07        Another area of significant variauce vis-a-vis project design concerns
IDA's role. This w defined as a& institution building orientation. which was
supported by both the Government and FON0 during project preparation and
appraisal.   Acordingly.  IDA's funding was aimed att i)  Ioreign technical
assistaeo to aid FONI in its exploration and supervision func. ins: ii) execution
of exploration by contractors and also by mine owners where adequate; and iii)
purchases of Imported equipment and consumable materials for exploration. However,
during project execution IDA`' role diverged considerably from this approach. IDA
functioned primarily as financier of equipment bought in years 1982-83. It had a
notably reduced function as the source of funding for exploration credits, and
practically no input in Introducing modern technical and management capabilities
in exploration. The main result was that the project objective of developing FONEM
into a financing institution for mineral exploration of international standards.
was not met, and the project became more focused oan ore reserve development in
already working properties, rather than on exploration to open up new ventures.
4.08        In terms of actions that affected the project, FONEM's decision to
mazimize the use of local consultants and mine owners as contractors for i)
executing  exploration  constituted  a  turning  point  in  its  scope;  and  ii)
reallocating IDA funds (para 5.05), although well intentioned, was too late and
did not succeed in increasing IDA disbursemeants, above the original allocations,
by the time of project cancellation.
4.09        Finally,  the effectiveness of the bilateral technical assistance
component remains doubtful. While it provided close supervision and more intense
exploration activity, it was characterized by relatively high costs, lengthy
processing for approving credit applications for sub-projects, and the employment
of insufficient wumbers of exploration geologists. The professional composition
of the team, with clear strength in mining and mineral processing, was oriented
towards securing rapid success in terms of delineating ore reserves, and developing
early production from mineralized areas. This was a valid approach for expanding
reserves and output from already known mineralized areas or existing mining
operations. On the other hand, the emphasis oan rapid success did not encourage the
examination of less known mineralized areas, and consequently was unlikely to
result in discoveries of new deposits.   This emphasis was reflected in the
processing and selection of applicants, which aimed at minimizing exploration risk,
and wae characterized by: I) extended examinations to identify highly promising
prospects with the best indications of mineralization, including mines where the
owners were mainly interested in extending ore reserves; and ii) delineating ore
reserves by executing preparatory work for mine production, along mineralized
veins, which justifies the selection of a team strong in mining engineers and other
mineral specialists.
S.          Ptoiect Imnlementation and RevisionlCancellation
5.01        Project Inmlementation.  Planned and actually implemented activities
under the project varied significantly. During the initial years of operation.
the project organization was fully established, but strong divergences of views
developed over approvals for IDA funded components and the use of consultants.
First, IDA's operational approach for the review and clearance rrocess raised
several areas of difference with FONEM, in respect of proposed exploration sub-
projects.   These included: i) disagreements on several exploration proposals.
whose size and scope of work initially reflected unduly optimistic expectations
on possibilities for existence of relatively sizable ore reserves, which were based
in preliminary surveys; and ii) differences over sub-projects which included pilot
plants nct financed under the IDA Project. Lack of concurrence also emerged in the
application of standards and criteria to select and evaluate sub-projects. and in



6
procuremet under IDA   uidelines.   Second, the use of services from  foreign
consultants surfaced as an issue during negt8otti *no with IDA. As indicated in the
SA*, the Government and _OUD then expressed a stront reluctance to iustify the use
of other tha short-tom expatriste assistance vith IDA funding. This position was
based on cost grounds, and also on their wish to svc'd possible conflicts with
bilateral agencies. Accordingly,  FONDI subsequently aimed at maximizing the use
of local consultants and personnel from contractors or mine owners, and to some
extent it strengthened  itself through bilateral assistance.   This  resulted
ultimately in disbursemnts of only US$26,900 out of US$1 million available in
IDA's credit for foreign technLcal assistance and training.
5.02        Except for the problems with expatriate assistance, the above mentioned
differences with IDA were substantially resolved in early 1981. due to changes in
management.   However, delays which occurred through the entiri period of the
operations  program  (1979-82)  were  mainly  caused  by  delays  in  Government
contributions, procurement and negotiations with mine owners. First, the slowdown
since the outset, in contributions from the Government. was due to the progressive
deterioration of the Bolivian sconomy.  It was subsequently resolved and funds
were providad, even during tines of economic difficulty, which illustrates the
support and priority given by the Government to the PONME project.
5.03        Second, delays of FONEM in processing procuremaent and the inordinate
holdup in obtaining local clearances delayed disbursements. They were unfortunate
ad unexpected given the very simple procedures involved. This was underscored
by the relatively small off-the-shelf items involved. and by IDA's exceptional
agreement to use straight forward international shopping procedures for all items
listed in the SA., from the outset of the project. This approach was allowed to
expedite equipment purchases, which FOUD( specified as urgently needed for on-
going exploration. It essentially allowed purchasing oan the basis of quotations.
from at least four suppliers from three IDA eligible countries.  However, the
inordinate delays resulted largely from the obligation, imposed subsequent to
credit negotiations, to comply with separate procurement procedures of Government
agencies. This conflicted with the Project Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement, which specified that procurement of goods would be governed by the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. In retrospect.
it could have been avoided reviewing the procedures, with state agencies
responsible for procurement. during project preparation and appraisal. This would
have permitted a timely identification of issues and corrective options.
5.04        Third.  major  slippages  in  granting credits  to mine  owners  and
possibilities of many cases of litigation with them were caused by: i) the
experimental and pilot nature of the project; ii) the design of the exploration
sub-project pipeline. which reflected acute optimism on the part of FONEH, and
also the initial eagerness of mine owners, when the exploration fund was
established, wbich was accentuated further through exemptions from mineral tax
royaltiess and iii) the lack of past experience in negotiating credits for the
more advanced stages  of exploration. In turn, the protracted negotiations (para
4.06) resulted mainly from: a) a fall in international metal prices, and most
importantly rising inflation in Bolivia. This made miners reluctant to use FONEM's
credits which were denominated in US Dollars, or to use IDA funded equipment.
included in the credits and also priced in US dollars and thereby accept exchange
rate risks at a time of economic uncertainty;  b) disagreements concerning
royalties, which emerged when negotiating more advanced stages of exploration; c)
efforts to declare partial and early success without completing all stages of
exploration, that based repayments to FONEK. through production royalties, on
still small ore reserves.  This remained as a problem, with FONEM attempting to



7
obtain successful results in order to obtain credit repayments, while mine owners
tried to save by sminimzing repymeats which in turn depended on declaring
exploration a failure, or relating paymnts to still small reserves: and d) issues
concering  wnership  and  the  financial situation  of the mine  oners. The
possibilities of slippages and litigation might have been identified during project
preparation and appraisal, with a more detailed and critical examination of the
negotiation process for esploration sub-projects, and of other relevant factors
such as International metal prices and exchange rate fluctuations. which could have
been incorporated into FONDI's proposed operations program, and reflected in the
optimistic and pessimistic finacial sceonarios of the SA.
3.05        Project Revision/Cancellation. The project had to be revised in 1987
and cancelled in 1988, due to the difficulties and delays described in paras 5.01-
5.04. These virtually stopped the disbursement of IDA funds, and ultimately led
to their reallocation in an unsuccessful atetpt to alleviate operational
constraints. Through 1986, IDA disbursements were fundamentally for procurement
of equipment and supplies (mostly during 1982-83) that totalled USS1.02 million
out of the US$1.2 million available, while disbursements for: i) foreign technical
assistance and training remained insigificant at US$26,900 out of USS1 million
available: and Li) exploration credits conswed only about US$1.04 million out of
US$4.3 million available. The situation was reviwed by IDA in early 1987. taking
into accounts a) the three extensions of the original credit closing date of June
30, 1963 already granted; b) the still generally accepted experimenta0pilot
nature of YONED; c) the risk that remval of DA support could result in closure
of 10UW, thus ending much needed and long overdue efforts for exploration in
Bolivial and d) the improving economic perspectives for the country, expected to
have encouraging effects on mine investaents. The project was revised in January
1987, by reallocating the balance of undisbursed IDA funds.  This resulted in
increasing funds for equipment and supplies to US$2.98 million, which were secured
by reducing to US$220,000 the owunts available for assistance and training, and
by absorbing all originally unallocated funds, amounting to US$1 million, in the
MDA credit. This action, however, was not successful due essentially to the same
main factors, already addressed, that previously affected the performance of the
project (lengthy negotiation process with mine owners, delays in procurement, and
reluctance of mine owners to bear exchange rate risks on credits denominated in
US Dollars). Since disbursements did not increase significantly, reaching only
about US$0.8 million in 1987, IDA proceeded to cancel the unwithdrawn balance of
US$3,657,485.45 effective an July 18, 1988.
6.          Project tesults
6.01        FONEK did not achieve the specific objectives for the project as
indicated in the SAR. These were based on: i) an operations program with various
deposit sizes, and associated probabilities for success; and ii) repayment of
royalties to ?OEK in accordance with conservatively estimated schedules of mine
development.  By the end of 1988, a total of 531 stage A general surveys were
executed.  These resulted in more advanced exploration at 23 prospects under
project funding, and at 26 prospects with resources from FONEK or bilateral
assistance.   Only one exploration sub-project executed under the project was
successful, five sub-projects were pronounced partial successes, and three
prospects vere undergoing exploration. Of the balance of 14 prospects, work was
paralyzed at six, and was unsuccessful at eight. This perfornmance is discouraging
in terms of geological delineation of new deposits (without even considering its
economic aspects), considering that IDA funds for the project remained effective
over 8.5 years at the time of ending disbursements on July 18, 1988. The credit
became effective on January 21, 1980, and had an original closing date of June 30,
1983.   to a large extent this outcome is not surprising. in light of the



8
sigificant difficulties which materialized between planed and actually executed
activities  (paras 4.06-4.09 and paras 5.01-5.04).   A detailed financial and
economic review of results of the YONMt project is likely to show adverse rates
of returns and incapacity to operate as a self-replenishing fund. Such results
would be In line with the effects froms I) delays in executing exploration sub-
projects; ii) lower than anticipated number of prospects successfully explored
vis-a-vis schedules indicated in the SAR; iii) delays in royalty payments to FONEK
resulting from slippages in implementing new mine production; iv) reduced amount
of production and ensuing royalties; and v) current tin prices which are still
below those used in the SAR.
6.02        Except for some impact on sectoral developmnt policies, IDA's FONEM
project failed to achieve its originally envisaged goals in several respects.
This occurred because of numrous difficulties, already addressed, during its
implementation.   On sectoral policies,  the support given to FONEZ's concept
materialized into relevant legislation through Decree No.14549 (para 4.01), and
the structure of its Board provided an inter-agency venue to expedite and
coordinate issues concerning mineral exploration.   On the other hand, only
insignificant influence was exerted on: i) training and the introduction of
specialized modern technology due to FONEMCs wish to minimize the use of foreign
consultants (para 4.08); ii) improvement of poverty and income distribution, since
no meaningful mineral production increases can yet be attributed to ?ONEV, and
workers at ongoing exploration sub-projects amount only to a minute portio'orf thu
sectoral workforce; and iii) buildup of consulting and laboratory capabilities.
which was constrained by FONDK*s approach that aimed at obtaining services for
specific sub-projects through smaller contracts on a case by case basis, as
required within each stage of exploration work, instead of using a more integrated
and development oriented approach as defined during project preparation and
appraisal.
7.          Project Sustainability
7.01        The sustainability of the project on basis of the designed self-
replenishing characteristic of the FONEK was highly doubtful, as explained in paras
5.06 and 6.01. This view is in line with projections included in the SAR, made
for a period of 20 years, under optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. Analysis
of the optimistic scenario already questioned the self-replenishing capabilities
of the project in the SAR. The SAR indicates that FOEKM was likely to require
annual support of US$1.6 million annually over the 15 years that followed the
disbursement of IDA's credit, to account for the expected increase in the financing
of the exploration of smaller deposits over time, as the best larger prospects
became explored. aowever, the apparent non-sustainability of the FONEM project on
a self-replenishing basis could have changed depending on: i) major discoveries,
the probability of which was progressively decreasing after nearly a decade of
exploration activities; and Ui) results from an apparent shift from predominantly
tin prospects into more gold and zincllead/silver prospects which had higher
returns.   The main risks in both cases were the uncertainties  inherent in
exploration, which should be reduced with technical strengthening, by ensuring the
services of expert exploration geologists and experienced managers of exploration
projects. Further steps to fortify FONEM should address operational improvements,
and technical and negotiating capabilities.
8.          IDA Performance
8.01        In general IDA provided positive and constructive contributions. and
furnished substantial guidance and input throughout the project cycle.   Its
involvement began in 1972. when recomiendations to study the establishment of a
mineral exploration fund were included in a Mining and Metallurgical Sector report.



9
Subsequently  all design and operatlonal aspects were extensively revLewed during
the project preparation phase, using consultants to asslst in scrutinizing them.
ZD&s particlpation in the project Was instrmental in mobilizLng financial
contributlins and Government support as well as the participation of bilateral
agencies. DerinS the appraisal phase. ID did not fully appreciate: i) the extent
to which services from foreign consultants would be miniaized. S0 indication of
this shift In policy was given durinS project preparation, or in FONEm's initial
operations, for which it directly ..ontracted the extensive use of consultants from
REX Consultants, Denve, whose services coincided with project preparation and
appraisal.  The sudden change Li approach came  up as an issue during project
negotiations: Li) the potential for major project delays resulting fram much longer
than inltially estimated negotiations with mine owners, and from exchange rate
fluctuations; and iii) initial slowdown of Government contributions related to
decline in the country's economy. Fortunately, the opportunity Co address these
and other unforseen dlfficulties, induced by the complexity and rather experimental
nature of the project, was provided through relatively intense IDA supervision,
facilitated by its role as executing agency for United Nations Development Program
(tMO) assistance to COMI4BOL, which required extensive preparation and supervision.
8.02        The main issues from which useful lessons can be learned include the
need toa i) scrutinize and confirm procurement procedures and taquired clearances
with relevant state agencies; ii) reflect in the project implementation schedule
the experience of the executing agency in negotiating contracts wlth pi;vate
beneficLarieslusers of funds and services from the project; iii) assess
scrupulously the implications and risks from major revisions in implemedtation
arrangements, if requested after project preparation and appraisal, or ,during
negotiations (as transpired with use of foreLgn consultants) for the FOND project;
and iv) stipulate in the credit agreement, and review and monitor closely, the
timely contribution of Government funds.
9.          Borrowr Performnce
9.01        The Government was the Borrower and ?ONEK was the implementing agency.
The perfora nce of the forsr was generally satisfactory while preparing the
project, and also during imsplmentation except for Lnitial delays in providing
agreed contributions. FONEK's performance was also satisfactory when preparing
the project, but during implementation it was initially affected by the mentioned
lack of funds, and subsequently by the combined effects from: i) being a new
institution only recently staffed; and ii) attempting to implement a complex
project of a virtually experimental nature, based on an innovative concept. These
aspects had particularly adverse effects in FONEK's performance, since although
having attracted the best available professional talent in the country, due to its
Lintially above average salaries and prestige, it still lacked the sound experience
and know-how needed for addressing timely and successfully the broad spectrum of
sectoral problems with which it was faced. This was particularly valid in respect
of: i) mobilizing and thus managing the annual project budget; ii) undertaking
procurement activities and obtaining necessary clearances; iii) attempting to
declare prematurely partial success of exploration sub-projects, based on still
unclear rationale, since these would result in smaller repayments to the FONEM; and
iv) using extensively local consultants and contractors (including mine owners) for
defining, executing. and monitoring exploration work.
9.02        The main lessons of experience for the Borrover and implementing agency
may be relevant to the preparation and implementation of other exploration fund
projects, with or without external financing.  They are: i) the necessity of
developing a core of highly qualified and experienced staff, with satisfactory
inputs of technical assistance and training; ii) the need to provide and arrange



10
for acceptable collection and man&ageent of supporting funds; and iii) the
necessity of ensuring execution of procurement activities without inconsistencies
from regulations supplementary to those indicated in the agreements of the IDA
Credit.  Another area of improvwent is the necessity to integrate the interests
of the fund and tho aine owners possibly through some kind of temporary
partnership or device for more equitably sharing the financial risks, while also
ensuring the comitments necessary to execute sub-projects.
10.         Proiect Relations
10.01       IDA relationship with the Goveruent agencies involved has been very
good. The relatively intensive supervision helped make this relationship closer
and more productive with a well maintained joint focus oan project goals. A similar
relationship was experienced between IDA cad FON&4 during the project cycle, with
the single exception of its initiation when strong divergence of viwsa developed
an certain operational approaches and use of foreign consultants (pars 4.08). The
very good relationship evolved subsequently and addressed constructively the issues
confronted by PON(.   Additionally,  IDA maintained effective and productive
relationships, with other entities relevant to exploration and mineral
developments, through activities with COKIIOL and other entities involved in the
recently approved Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project.
11.         Consulting Services
11.01       The use of intero.ational consultants was minimal, amounting  Co
expenditures of US$26,900 out of US$1 million available for this purpose in IDA's
credit. The net effect was a ainimal level of technology transfer funded by IDA
in the fields of exploration, pre-investment evaluation and policy formulation.
The main consequence is that FOMN has not yet developed to international standards
on the very thorough pre-investment work necessary to: i) select and assess
prospects; ii) define, evaluate and negotiate exploration programs; and iii)
arrange the execution and monitoring of exploration work and related services.  On
the other hand, FOVD@  made extensive use of local consultants and contractors
(including mine owners) , which operated almost entirely within the traditional and
more basic framework of mine development along mineralized vein structures.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The legal agreements for the project proved adequate through out its
implementation, and no particular lesson can be drawn from this aspect of the
project.
12.02       The Staff Appraisal Report provided an extremely useful tool to examine
the progress of the project and respective variances during its implementation.
This use confirmed the benefit of having defined specifically the operations
program financed by the IDA credit, which served as a framework that facilitated
maintaining clear focus On the objectives of the project.
12.03       Data relevant to the preparation of the PcR was readily available.
However, data concerning project accounts and costs were cumbersome and time
consuming to review. This data should be kept in retrievable form throughout the
extent of the implementation period.



11
PROJ        af  O
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXYLORATION FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-BQ)
project Costs2
(US$ million)
paraisal Estimate             Actual
LQCBl     Foreign    Total         Total
Equipment                     -        1.23        1.23         1.02
General Survey Costs         0.70       -          0.70          >
9.3
Consulting & Service         5.64      1.41        7.05          >
Contracts
Technical Assistance
& Training                  -        0.78        0.78         0.26
Administrative Costs         1.29       .          1.29         3.93
Interest During
Disbursement  -0.22                  0.2         0.53. -
Total                  11.73      4.48       16.45        14.51
J Due to the extreme fluctuations of exchange rates, which prevailed
during project execution, it is not possible to correlate actual
expenditures with respective exchange rates to meaningfully break
costs into foreign and local components.



12
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPIRATION FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-BO)
Project Financing
(US$ million)
F,uuitv             Elann 4Azaraisal          Final
Government                 4.3                 6.1
IDA A/                     3.7                 1.8
BRGN (France)              0.5                 0.5
GTZ (FRG)                  3.8                -LA
Sub-total            12.3               12.2
y'   50X of the IDA Credit was to be on-lent to FONEK by the Government.
Differences are due to rounding.
Use of IDA Financin;
(US$ Million)
Planned        Actual
Equipment                  1.4             1.0
Exploration Services       5.0            2.8
Technical Assistance       1.1
Sub-total             7.5            3.8
Cancellation                 -            3.7



13
ANE  3
Page 1 of 2
IPR^T           ON PT T
UPILIC OF BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINIAL IZLBATIOI FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 940-1O1)
STATUS OF COVE T
SPECU     CONDITIONi                             STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
(a) The Decree-Isv creating the Fund, or Its
by-laws vould not be modifled without
ZDA's agreement;                                         A          :
(b) contractual arrangements for training and
semlnars wlll be completed by the Fund
according to a program satlsfactory to
ZDA, part of vhich has been agreed upon;
the remnlder ls to be submitted to IDA
before January 1, 1980;                                             :
(c) the need for short-term consultant services
would be revlewed by IDA and the Fund every
six months;                                              A           :
(d) the Fund would provide IDA with quarterly
financlal reports and monthly progress
reports;                                                             -
(e) the fund wlll use technlcal and financial
criterla satlsfactory to IDA for the
evaluatlon of exploration sub-projects to be
flnanced by IDA;                                         K           :
(f) the Fund will contract IDA approved consultant
and contractors for the carrying out of projects;         a          :
(g)  the Fund's exposure to the same mine owner will
not be greater than US$2.0 million equivalent;            A          :
(h)  all contracts will be subject to the General
Condltions;                                               a          :
(1) the Fund will slgn a contract with the mine owner
setting out certain conditions;                           A          :



14
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
SUM"   =M=                                                  STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
(j)  IDA will approve the contracts, Including the work                 x
program, for each project to be flnanced by IDA;
(k) the Fund vill not finance pllot testlng plants or
the rehabllitatlon of processing plants unless
(p)  appointment of qualifled Independent audltor acceptable
to IDA;                                                                       Z
(q)  enactment of Joine Ministerial Resolution clarifying
exlsting legislation;                                              K
(r) adoption by the Fund of General Conditions acceptable
to IDA;                                                                       -
(s)  putting into effect the bilateral agreement with the GTZ;          K
(t) that the Governrmen be up to daee In Its quarterly
budgetary contributions to the Fund;
(u) that after the earller of 18 months after credit effectiveness
or when US$3.5 million of the credit has been committed, IDA
would be satlsfled that the Fund has performed satisfactorily
and that the purposes of the credit will be accomplished.                     Z



-is -
Al*= 4
Office of the President of the Renu1lic
MINISTRY OP PLANNING AND COORDINATION
BOLIVIA
La Pa4, June 20, 1990
DIP-295/90 3531
Alexander Nowicki
Chief, Division of Adjustment Loans for Economic
and Sectoral Policy, Industry, Public Services
and Urban Sector
Project Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Sir:
We are in receipt of the draft of the Project Completion Report,
National Mineral Exploration Fund Project, which you sent to us. That
report contains comments on how the project was implemented.
In this connection, I wish to inform you that this report has been
taken under study by the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, and we
believe that the report, coupled with the operations audit to be
carried out soon at FONEM, will produce the recommendations on the
actions to be taken by the national authorities with respect to a
necessary recovery of mining.
Accept, sir, the considerations of my highest esteem.
/s/
Jorge Urquidi Barrau
Undersecretary for Public
Investments and International
Cooperation



- 16 -                       ARM4E
BM-CI-34/90
La Paz, June 19, 1990
Alexander Nowicki
Chief, Loans Division
Project Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington
Sir:
Re: Observations on the World Bank Project Completion Report for the
National Mineral Exploration Fund (FONEM) Project, Credit 940/BO.
The evaluation of credit 940/BO by the World Bank Operations
Evaluation Department was prepared after the implementation of three
earlier agreements which. I understand, were conducted in a similar or
like fashion, in terms of results, to the credit in question.
It is good to point out that during the execution period of credit
940/BO, the Geological Service of Bolivia, the Institute of Mining-
Metallurgy Research and the Banco Minero de Bolivia carried out work
that was similar to some extent to that of FONEM. This fact disrupted
the structural concept of credit 940/BO. Prom the start, the Bolivian
Mining Sector Strengthening Project, Credit 2013/Ba, has succeeded in
rectifying these coordination defects.
The divergence in achieving the objectives of credit 940/BO is
attributable to several factors, among them:
-- The resistance to long term project control and follow-up by
international experts called for in the agreement.
-- The use of strategies in traditional lines of ore production,
whereas a better approach might have been to work in new,
properly selected fields.
The Kinistry of Mining and Metallurgy did not supervise the
programs and subprograms, a fact that contributed to the
little significant results.
Since the OED has identified the administrative flaws in the project--
credit 940/BO-and since the results are not satisfactory, it is my
judgment that the evaluation report has brought together the real
facts.



AXNNE 4
-     -                     Page T73f 3
The financials, accounting and operations audit of PONEII, programmed by
the World Bank at the request of the Ministry of Mining and
Metallurgy, will provide supplementary information helpful in
clarifying the activities of the PONL.
Accept, sir, the considerations of miy highest esteem.
/a/
Eduardo Gutierrex C.
Institutional Coordinator
ccs Dr. Fernando Mendoza



-18                          ANNEX 5
Page 1of11
FONBM-NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
La Paz, June 6, 1990
FE-432/90
Alexander Nowicki
Chief, Project Evaluation Department
World bank
1818 B Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Sir:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter dated May 8, 1990, in which you
included the Project Completion Report for Credit 940/BO, arranged
between the National Mineral Exploration Fund (FONEM) and the
International Development Association (IDA), whose closing date was
June 18, 1988.
We have addressed your obse;vations in the attached report. We are
sending a copy of the same to the agencies to which you sent a copy of
your report, as well as to the National Senate Mining Commission, the
Chamber of Deputies Mining Commission and the President of the
National Senate.
Accept, sir, the considerations of my highest esteem.
/S/
Juan Koch Mejia
General Manager
Attachment
cc: File GC
Cron Pile GC
File GP
File DT



AN g
Page2 of1
FONEM--NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
OBSERVATIONS TO THE PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT FOR WQLD BANR  REDIT 940/BO
Paragraph 1.    No coment.
Paragraph 2.    No comment.
Paragraph 3.    Overall, the project succeeded in meeting partially
its objective of developing PONEM into a financing institution of
international standards. Its technical staff has advised the
Argentine Gover-ment on creating a similar fund in that country and
the Government of Ecuador is interested in establishing a similar
fund.
In the near future, FONEM will send its engineers to a forum to
explain the technological, economic and financial operations of FONEM.
During the implementation phase, it was found that the project
preparation studies and the later designs were optimistic and did not
foresee several external factors that were responsible for the low
yield.  These included:
i)      The studies could not be deficient because the stage A reports
were prepared following the standards set out in the project
selection manual and they dealt with deposits in production or
initial operation, which afforded more reliable data than
those that would be available in evaluating prospects.
ii)     There was no reluctance to use the services of foreign
consultants because GTZ, through GCM (Mining Cooperation
Group), took an active part in developing the project.
Likewise, BRGM worked with FONEM in several stage A projects.
Furthermore, support came from Rex consulting, JICA and others
and for this reason, PONEM thought it advisable to not go
along with hiring the consultants under category III of the
agreement.
iii)    There was no extensive use of local consultants.  This was
because Minero was in charge of 50 percent of the mineral
works and GCM participated as a mining services firm in the
remaining project. As a result, the work was done under the
technology of GTZ and eventually with the advisory assistance
of BRGQ.
Paragraph 4.    Under the legal terms of its technical operations,
FONEM may not explore in free zones for development of new
enterprises. However, in a government effort, drawing on resources of
the General Treasury of the Nation, explorations were conducted in
northeastern Bolivia under a special contract with the American firm,
Mineral Research Service Inc., the results of which were negative.



ANWE 5
- 20 -                  Pager2ol
4.ii)   IDA approved all the exploration projects implemented with the
credit and also approved the standards and criteria used to
select and evaluate the subprojects.
FONEM desired to acquire a pilot plant for just one project,
and this plant was for the Cerro Grande Project.
4.iv)   The acquisition of equipment under the IDA line was a correct
measure because it helped to assist the projects without
concern in this area. Furthermore, GC! used almost 100
percent of the machinery, and made better use of it.
Partial success of the projects was declared in no case by
FONEI.  To the contrary, Linero sought to take this step to
facilitate the development of the industrial reserve
generated. This decision also made it possible to improve the
liquidity of FONEM since eight years have passed since it has
received funding from the national treasury.
Paragraph 5.    No comment.
Paragraph 6.    The technical operations of FONEM found it reasonable
that six projects were selected from among thirty stage A projects and
that of these, one was declared successful. In this connection, of
531 projects, 49 were selected and of these, eight were declared
successful. Although the rate of projects executed is higher in
relation to projects selected and/or declared successful, this
situation came about when FONEM explored 202 stage A surveys for the
Karachipampa Program, with negative results.
FONEM believes it opportune to illustrate with economic parameters the
results achieved and the future projection.
a)      Financing
Subproject Status         Financing, Agreement 940-BO ,
$ Us
a)  Total success                  221,875.30
b)  Partial success              1,423,380.87
c)  In Progress                    857,859.17
d)  Halted                         105,092.27
e)  Declared not successful        188,768.88
2,796.976.49
b)      Return to Investment in ExDloration
With the successful subprojects and those in progress, FONEM
would obtain in principal, interest, and contingency fees the
sum of $13,699,700 over a period of nine years.



-    -                      ANNE o 5
PageTCof 
a)      Indu_trial Reserve Generated
With its successful subprojects and those in execution, FONEM
would generate 2,617,800 NT.
d)      Prodution Generated by the Proiect
The production to be obtained through the project will come
to:
Zinc                    66,933,305 PP
Lead                   123,044,178 PP
Silver                   7,550,342 Troy ounces
Gold                       126,992 Troy ounces
Tin                     18,869,440 PP
e)      Gross Value gf Production
The gross value of expected production under project 940-DO
will be US$222,090,000, based on these figures.
f)  Intenal Rates of Return
The successful subprojects and those in progress have internal
rates of return between 23% and 126%, which is to say they are
in an acceptable range for launching the industrial phase.



-22 -                        AI     
Page 5 of 11
FONEM - NATIONAL MINERAL EXCPWRATION FUND
PROECT CMPLETION REPORT
Paragraph 1.    No comment.
Paragraph 2.    No comment.
Paragraph 3.    No comment.
Paragraph 3.01  No comment.
Paragraph 3.02  The FONEM credit is contingent in nature and subject
to the general financing conditions set out in current rules and
procedures and the approval of the IDA.
Paragraph 3.03  No comment.
Paragraph 3.04  No comment.
Paragraph 3.05  No comment.
Paragraph 4.    No comment.
Paragraph 4.01  No coment.
Paragraph 4.02  No comment.
Paragraph 4.03  No comment.
Paragraph 4.04  No comment.
Paragraph 4.05  No comment.
Paragraph 4.06  Retrosyective View
The results obtained from the work executed to this
time can be valuable, even though the project does not display
sensational results, because of the experience that has been gained in
these ten years. in addition, FONEM believes it opportune to clarify
that it always worked with the external consultants known as Grupo de
Cooperacion Minera, who executed a good percentage of the projects
selected.
Paragraph 4.07 The National Government and the World Bank itself
opposed the execution of prospecting works because this work
overlapped the functions of GEOBOL.
Paragraph 4.08 No comment.
Paragraph 4.09 This aspect reflects the insufficient nature of the
World Bank's supervision. Its participation involved quick meetings
that did not take up sensitive issues on the bilateral technical
assistance that FONEN received.



AN= 5
- 23-                      Page6of1
Paragraph 5     No comment.
Paragraph 5.01  Proiect Imlementation
The IDA evaluated and approved all the preliminary
studies submitted to it for consideration. Likewise, there was only
one case that sought to install a pilot ore dressing plant, a matter
that was denied by IDA.
The use of foreign consultants was not possible owing
to the high cost that these services entailed for the subprojects that
were to be executed.
Paragraph 5.02 No comment.
Paragraph 5.03 No comment.
Paragraph 5.04 Third
c) Kinero and FONEM, by mutual decision, resolved the
partial successes by agreements with the parties.
In no case did PONEN try to make early declarations
of successes. In each case it analyzed the
technical, economic and financial framework of the
project to make success viable and to make the
corresponding repayments.
Paragraph 5.05
USE OF CREDIT 940-BO (GLOBAL) DURING THlE PERIOD 1979-1988,
BY AMOUNTS OF EXPENDITURES FINANCED, BY CATEGORY AND YEAR, IN US$
Category                        Use of Credit
As Agreed        As of 1988      Balance
1. Contingent Credit    4,300,000        2t796,976.30    1,503,023.70
2. Acquisition of
machinery, equip-
ment and mining
inputs               2,980,000        1,018,637.80    1,961,362.20
3. Technical assist-
ance and training       220,000          26,901.10       193t098.90
TOTAL                    7,500,000       3,842,515.20    3,657,484.80
uwing to conditions of stability in our country and the acceptance of
the request to amend the original agreement to open a special account,
the execution of the credit for category I during the period 1986-1988
came to USS2,057,559.70. This was 74% of the total used. This is
proof of the good performance in managing the credit in a stable
economy when inflation did not exceed 15% per year cumulative. This
situation led to greater demand and execution of the credit.



- 24                       ARME 5
Pa3se7of11
Category II for purchases of machinery, equipment and inputs, which
left an unused balance of U41#961372t could not be executed, by
decision of the IDA.
Paragraph 6.01 Expected results from use of financinq
The 23 mining exploration subprojects that were
selected and had assigned ezecu_ion priorities by FONEJ until 1988,
and for use of financing, reached varying levels of development.
These can be identified as follows:
Status of               Financing from                Percentage
Subproject              Agreement 940-BO                Share
In US$
a) Total success            221,875.30                    8.0
b) Partial success        1,423,380.87                   51.0
c) In progress              857,859.17                   31.0
d) Halted                   105,092.27                    3.0
e) Declared not
successful               188,768.88                    7.0
TOTAL                     2,796,976.49                  100.0
As can be seen in the preceding figures, 90% of the financing went to
the subprojects which now offer the greatest possibility of success
and consequent return to investment. This can be determined by
certain parameters that, as a function of the financing, determine the
behavior of several variables that are merely technical in nature, and
whose results can be seen in the following points.
- Financing required to complete the subproject.
To complete execution of the subprojects that were determined
successful and are in implementation, as in lines a, b and c of the
preceding table, FONEM needs financial support amounting to
US$955,200. This sum is shown by year in Table No. 8.
- Return to investment
Interpreting this component, as a result of the treatment of the
repayments that FONEM expects to receive from passing on the credit
to the mine owners and for payment of the contingency fee, interest
and annual instalments, the execution of the successful subprojects
and those in progress will mean that FONEM can receive US$13,699,700
over a period of nine years. See Table No. 9. This means a
turnover of the FONEM-World Bank investment of 2.6 times, including
the investment made in projects that are paralyzed and declared not
successful.



-25 -                        NC5
Page 8-of 11
Industrial investment
The satisfactory implementation of subprojects in execution and
those declared successful means that the interested parties can
supplement the initial investments with others enabling industrial
production of the explored deposits. These come to US$7,892,000, of
which US$6,239,300 will be used to buy machinery and equipment, and
US$1,652,700 for operations.
- Objective Reserves
The objective reserves that were computed for development over a
time not exceeding five years come to 7,022,618 metric tons of gross
weight. These appear in the following table, by project status:
OBJECTIVE RESEVES., BY STATUS O_ SUBPROJECT. UNDER
AGREEMENT 940-BQ (In gross metric tonsL
Subproject Status            Objective Reserves             0
Total Success                         81,000                1
Partial Success                    1,226,200               17
In Progress                        1,310,600               19
Paralyzed                          4,404,818               63
TOTAL                              7,022,618              100
(*) Source - Table No. 12.
- Production generated by the project
Counting its principal components, the project computes production
for the period 1983-1999 from the positive findings of objective
reserves, as indicated in the preceding paragraph, as follows:



-26-                         ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 1
rino Production Jkuected. By Status of M&2L2ciect.
Undbr Aareement 1940-BO
rine Production Expected
Silver      Gold            Tin
Subproject Status    Zinc PP   Lead PP       Troy Oz.    Troy Oz.
Total Success       8,876,S68   5,369,266      333,288
Partial Success   11,921,S10  16,541.541   2,010,316    28,138    18,869.94
In Execution       46,135,227 101,133,371   5,206,738    98,854          -
TOTAL              66,933,305 123,044,178   7,550,342   126,992    18,869.94
Source - Table No. 12
- Gross Value of Production
In monetary terms, it is expected that the group of subprojects that
are considere4 most important in project 940-BO will generate
$222,090, 000.L  The information given allows the conclusion that if
the expected results are only 50% accurate, and only the subprojects
that are closest to success or are already successful are
considered, the 50% production rate would come to US$108,500,000 in
monetary terms. This does not count those subprojects in execution
which are sufficiently important in the combined action of the
project agreed with IDA. This would amount to a major contribution
from national mining to the work of the productive apparatus in the
Bolivian economy.
CONTRIBUTION FROM ROYALTIES GENERATD  BY FONEM TO TAX REVENUE
Table No. 4 shows the royalties that will go to the national treasury
which, as is known, is to be a co-particlpant with the development
corporations and PONER. The royalties generated by the successful
projects come to a total of US$14,467,202. This figure is greater
than the funding that the treasury has ever been able to give to
FONEM. The average amount of royalties per year is US$578.688.08 and
the average per project is US$1,808,400.25. The amount of royalties
generated by successful PONEM projects is 4.31 times the amount for
exploration. Adding both royalties and total repayments, the fiscal
revenue surpasses US$25,000,000 and is equal to 5.36 times the amount
of investmtent in exploration. This is a prospect that was either not
1   Counting both successful subprojects and those in progress.



-27 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 10of1
expected ot not quantified earlier. Without the involvement of FONEM
contingent financing, these royalties simply could never have come
about.
- Indicators of efficiency for selection of projects
The subprojects selected for execution over the short run have
adequately encouraging technical and economic indicators. These can
also be seen in Table No. 12.
- Yield from the investment in exploration
According to the contingency model profiled for FONEL actions, a
project is justified if this yield figure averages US$45 in return
to each US$1 invested in exploration. We can say that the group of
proposed subprojects hope to have yields that are above this
indicator and below it only on an exceptional basis. The lower and
upper limits are US$35 and US$69 per dollar invested, with a high
level of dispersion which rules out any comprehensive measurement.
- Weighted cost of capital (WCC)
This is between 12% and 20% of the financing required to execute the
project and its direct relationship to the earnings to be made. In
no way would the cost have to be lower than these indicators.
- Internal rates of return (IRR)
These rates are between 23% and 126%, with considerable variation
from the average. In global terms, this indicator surpasses 50% for
most of the subprojects covered in this analysis.
- Cost-benefit ratio
In all cases, the benefit that is expected from execution of the
subprojects exceeds the cost by at least 1.4 times.
- Other indicators
It is important to note that other evaluation indicators were
determined for each project. These include a net present value
(NPV), the ratio of cost of reserves/dollars and the investment
recovery period, which can be seen in the tables discussed above.
Paragraph 7.    No comment.
Paragraph 8.    No comment.
Paragraph 9.    No comment.
Paragraph 10.   No comment.
Paragraph 11.   No comment.



28 -                   pagaSe    5
Paragraph 12. No comment.
It should be noted that these observations accurately reflect the true
situation of project 940-BO and that the technical-economical-
financial audit suggested by the World Bank will show the positive
results of the projects executed by PONE4.
NMaz IND* 4
{T3C, MINMAL  ESJA?O FUID ?VOIk1)
PRENT AND PUTU    LAU       GRAD BS P=I CS ME POSSIBLE BY FON0
(in fM)
son      Son  (?and ia  Se-r de  Sayaquira Totoral San   Esperanza  Total
Lorenzo  Matis              Se Dims                     Jorge  M111ni Royalties
1        2       3          4          5        6      7         8
[Origial figures partially illegiblel



-      -                        ARMNDo  6
Page o-r _
Prolect Completion isuort
Bolivia
National Mineral Uxploration Fund Project
(Credat 940-B0)
XDD*9 Review of Comments on PCR
from Borrower and PONEK
1.       Acknowledgeaent of having received IDA's PCR was provided ftom
the Ministry of Planning and Coordination of Bolivia, in letter dated
June 20, 1990 (Annex 4), which indicated that the PCI is been reviewed
within the Ministry, and that it will be combined with a forthcoming
operational audlt of FONEM to develop recoumendations for future actions
aiesd at mineral sectoral lmproveoent. Overall comments on IDA's PCI
were provided from the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy of Bolivia, in
letter dated June 19, 1990 (Annex 4), which also informs about the above
mentioned audit. and widely supports the PCR's conclusions.  In
particular, it ratifies that the PCR contains and addresses realities
that ultimately were reflected into FONEM's unsatisfactory results. In
this regard, factors cited which have contributed to FONEM's failure
include: i) resistanee to use specialized (foreign) consultants for
project control and follow-up activities; ii) possible strategy and
approach inadequacies; and iii) absence of control by the Ministry of
Mines and Metallurgy.
2.       With cover letter dated June 6, 1990, FONEM has provided
comments (Annex 5) to IDA's subject PCR. These comments, however,
reflect unrealistically optimistic views of the project, which appear
primarily oriented at ongoing sectoral dialogue with IDA, and that should
probably be addressed in such context.
3.       Within the framework of the ongoing Mining Sector Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 2013-BO), IDA has addressed repeatedly issues concerning
PONM, focusing ultimately on the need to declare FONEM as a failure, and
to disband it. In its BTO dated May 25, 1990, IDA's recent supervision
mission of April 16 - May 3, reported that the Minister of Mines and
Metallurgy insisted in not disbanding FONEM, and that agreement had been
reached, as a compromise, to execute an exhaustive external technical and
financial audit of PONEM and its clients, with funding from credit 2013-
BO. However, subsequent to this mission, unexpected by IDA, a financial
audit of FONEt was rapidly completed by independent consultants.  Its
results were submitted to IDA in the form of an audit report dated May
18, 1990, which is available in APTIE files. The findings presented in
this audit report are extremely negative indicating: i) high levels of
arrears in repayments from miners; and ii) undervaluation of specific
exploration sub-project costs. TIe combined effect of these tWo factors



ANNEX 6
Page7 Zfo
-30 -
renders virtually needless the execution of further exhaustive audits,
above mentioned, to rationalize the disbanding of FONEM.
4.       Within the above mentioned context and background, the comments
received from FONED on the PCR show an apparent self serving orientation,
almed at avoiding the disbandment of this institution. These couments
are briefly addressed below for each paragraph of the PCRs
a) Para 3. PONDK sustains that:
i) its objective of developing Into a financing institution of
international standards has been met because RONEM has assisted and is
assisting other Governments in establishing similar funds. This
asseesment fails to reflect that the stated objectives of FONEK refer to
performance of its operations as a financing institution, which do not
include goals on capabilities as a provider of international technical
assistance. It should also be noted that the referenced fund in
Argentina is non-functional;
ii) no reluctance existed vithin FONEM to use foreign assistance, as
exemplified by its use of assistance predominantly from bilateral
sources, which it cites as justification for not engaging consultants
futded by IDA. This position does not reflect well the SAR. which
provided early indications int 1) pars 5.17 that 'FONEH staff aim to
minimize foreign exchange expenditures and use whenever possible local
consultants and contractor personnel' and *the Government and FONER feel
that any further IDA-financed expatriate assistance to strengthen the
Fund (as earlier envisaged by Association staff), other than short-term
services still to be provided and discussed in para 5.22, cannot be
adequately justified and, in the Fund's view, would unduly complicate--
and could possibly be in conflict with--the assistance the Fund is
receiving from Germany'; and 2) para 5.18 'that without the technical
assistance to be supplied by Germany, the proposed form of project
execution would raise major technical, costing and organizational
problems*. This last point escalates the importance of effectiveness of
the bilateral technical assistance, which in para 4.09 of the PCR is
rated as doubtful, and characterized by employing an insufficient number
of geologists and a work approach unlikely to result in discovery of new
deposits; and
iii) no extended use was made of local consultants because miners
themselves executed about SOX of the works, and the team funded by German
bilateral assistance provided mineral services required for the remaining
exploration sub-projects, thus executing the projects under technology of
G.T.Z., and eventually using guidance from B.R.G.M. In this regard,
FONEM's position does not hold because of the doubtful input from
bilateral assistance as indicated above in ii)Z), and because guidance
from B.R.G.M. at project initiation, was extremely brief and insufficient
to impact FONEM's operations;
b) Para 4. FONEK's coments, although a little unfocused, are
essentially of supplementary nature, without developing into issues of
major divergence;



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
_31 -
a) Pars 6. POIND's commeunts are provided in the fona of
*                 estimates of ore reserves generated by FONEM, and projections for mineral
production and respective prices. All these estimates are of highly
subjective and questionable nature, and of course affected by optimistic
tendencies, which are compounded by undervaluation of exploration costs
mentioned above in 2.11), whose final effects are reflected in
unreallstic estimates of return;
d) Para 3.02. PONE*9 comsents are supplementary;
e) Para 4.06. FONDI's comments are supplementary but also of
subjective and optimistic nature;
f) Para 4.07. FOND's comments refer to prospection which is
irrelevant and not germane to para 4.07;
g) Para 4.09. PONM's comments indicate its view that due to
insufficient supervision IDA only developed a superficial familiarization
with technical bilateral assistance being provided to FONEMK due to its
insufficient supervision. This coment, however, is stated without
indicating any divergence with para 4.09 of the PCI, which addresses the
effectiveness of bilateral technical assistance;
h) Para 5.01.  FONM's comments are of supplementary nature,
with exception of use of foreign consultants, already addressed above in
3.a)ii;
i) Para 5.04. FONEM's comments state that no efforts were made
in respect of declaring early and partial success without completing all
stages of exploration. This contradicts, however, its earlier comments
to para 4 (4.iv) which places responsibility of thez'e efforts on the
miners, and justifies them on grounds of generating repayment to FONEH;
J) Para 5.05. FONEM's comments are of su'plementary nature; and
k) Para 6.01. FONEH's comments are supplementary to its earlier
comments concerning para 6, and also characterized by subjectivity and
optimistic tendencies.



