Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   -  L     COPY
Report No. 2309-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL E'XPLORATION FUND PROJECT
Junie 5, 1979
Industrial Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otlherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Bolivian Peso (Bol.$)
EXCHANGE RATES
Bol.$20.00        =  US$1.00
Bol.$1,000        =  US$50.00
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAMIN            -  Banco Minero
BISA             -  Banco Industrial Sociedad Anonima
BRGM             -  Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
COBOEN           -  Comision Boliviana de Energia Nuclear
COMIBOL          -  Corporacion Minera de Bolivia
CONSULTIN        -  Consultoria Metalurgia y Minas Limitada
CIDA             -  Canadian International Development Agency
CPD              -  Consolidated Purchasing and Designing
CPM              -  Centro Profesional Multidisciplinario
DMA              -  Defense Minerals Administration
DMEA             -  Defense Mineral Exploration Administration
ECOSOC           -  Economic and Social Council of the UN
ENAF             -  Empresa Nacional de Fundiciones
FNEM, the L2 und   -  Fondo Nacional de Exploracion Minera
I1MM             -  Instituto de Investigaciones Minero Metalurgicos
INDEF            -  Instituto Nacional de Financiamiento
GEOBOL           -  Servicio Geologico de Bolivia
GTZ              -  Gesellschaft flier Technische Zusammenarbeit
LANDSAT          -  Land Satellite of the nliited States National Aeronautic
and Space Administration
MMM              -  Ministerio de Minas y Metalurgia, Bolivia
MMEA             -  Metal Mining Exploration Agency, Japan
OME              -  Office of Mineral Exploration, US
REX              -  Resource Exploration International
SERMIN           -  Servicios Mineros Limitada
SIDERSA          -  Empresa Siderurgica Boliviana Sociedad Anonima
SOQUEM           -  Societe Quebequoise d'Exploration Miniere
TPD              -  Metric Ton per Day
TPY              -  Metric Ton per Year
UNDP             -  United Natiotns Develupt-nln Programme
UNRFNRE, UN
Revolving Fund   -  United Nations Revolving Fund for Natural Resources
Exploration
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =         3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) 3              0.622 miles (mi)
1 cubic meter (m )             35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
It"   1                    264.2   US gallons (gal)
It    "=                     6.29  barrels (bbl)
1 metric ton (t)       =        2,204.6 pounds (lb.)
1 metric ton (t)       =        1.1 short tons (st.)
BOLIVIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



FOR OFFICIAL UaE ONLY
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ...............................................                       1
II.   THE MINING SECTOR ..........................................                       2
A.    Structure of the Bolivian Mining Sector  ....                ...........     2
B.    Principal Sector Problems  .............................                     4
1.   Taxation  .........................................                    4
2.    High Production Costs  ............................                   5
3.    Lack of Exploration  ...............................                  5
4.    Mining Finance ...................................                    6
C.    Exploration Programs  ..................................                     7
III. THE ROLE OF MINERAL EXPLORATION FUNDS  .... .............                           9
A.   Objectives of Mineral Exploration Funds  ....                 ...........     9
B.    Scope and Characteristics of Major Existing
Exploration Funds  ....................................                  10
1.    The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)  ..                  10
2.    The United Nations Revolving Fund for
Natural Resources Exploration (UNRFNRE)  ........                  11
3.    Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM), Mexico  ......                  12
4.   Quebec Mining Exploration Company (SOQUEM),
Canada ....                                 ,                     12
5.    Office of Mineral Exploration (OME),
United States ........           ..........................        13
6.    Metal Mining Exploraltion Agency (MMEA),
Japan ..........................................                   13
C.   Summary Experience of Funds ...........................                      14
IV.  FNEM--THE NATIONAL MINERAL EXP-LORATION FUND OF BOLIVIA   .....                    15
A.   Background  ............................................                     15
B.   Ownership .............................................                     16
C.   Objectives ..................................                                16
D.    Organization and Management ...........................                     17
E.    Past Operations, Performance and Policies  ....               .........     20
F.    Financial Situation .........................                              25
The report was prepared by Ms. M.O. Smith and Mr. L. Maraboli of the
Industrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.      THE  PROJECT                   ................................................                      27
A.     Project  Objectives  and  Scope  .....                       .....................            27
B.     Project  Description  ...................................                                     27
1.     1979-82  Operations  Program  ...............                     .. ......           27
2.     Operating Procedures  .............                   ..       ..............         29
3.     Financial  Credit  Conditions  .....                      .................           32
4.     Mine  Development  Financing  .......................                                 33
C.     Review  of  Operations  Program  ..........................                                   33
D.     Project  Implementation  ..............                    ..       ................          34
1.     Project  Execution  and  Management  ....... ..                       ........        34
2.     Training  and  Additional  Technical  Assistance                          .....       36
3.     Equipment  Requirements  ............                  ..       .............         36
4.     Implementation  Schedule  ...........                  ..       .............         36
VI.    CAPITAL  COST,  FINANCING  PLAN  AND  PROCUREMENT  ...... .. .......                                  38
A.      Capital  Cost  .......           ..............            .....................             38
B.     Financing  Plan  .......                ...................... ...........                    40
C.   Procurement, Allocation and Disbursement of
the  IDA  Credit  .................               ..       ...................            42
VII.  FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS                   .....................            ....................            43
A.   Methodology Used in Financial Projections
and  its  Limitations  .................................                                  43
B.     Revenues--Replenishment  through  Royalty  Payments                              ......       44
C.     Exploration  Costs  .....................................                                     45
D.    Other  Costs  ...........................................                                      46
E.     Financial  Projections  .................................                                     47
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation of Exploration Portfolio                                              50
G.     Auditing  and  Reporting  Requirements  ...................                                   51
H.     Financial  Rate  of  Return  ..............................                                   51
I.     Major  Risks  ...........................................                                     51
VIII.  ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS  .........................................                                         53
A.     Economic  Costs  and  Benefits  ...........................                                   53
B.     Economic  Rate  of Return  ...............................                                    54
C.     Foreign  Exchange  Benefits  .............................                                    55
D.     Fiscal  Benefits  .......................................                                     56
E.    Other  Benefits  ........................................                                      58
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ........               ..............            ......................              59



- iii-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES
I  Glossary Lf Mining Terms
4  Potential Exploration Projects for FNEM Financing
5  FNEM--Detailed Equipment Requirements
6  FNEM--Capital Cost Breakdown
7-1  Optimistic Case--Projected Sources and Uses of FNEM Operating Budget
7-2  Pessimistic Case--Projected Sources and Uses of FNEM Operating Budget
8  Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analyses
MAP IBRD No. 13840
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Referred to
Reference        Title Date and Authors                      under Paragraph
A        Bolivian Mining Code prepared by
A. Gottret and L. Valle :Ln 1975
B        Taxation and the Mining Sector in
Bolivia prepared by Harvard
Institute for International
Development in 1975                                    2.09
C        Decree of Creation of National Mineral
Exploration Fund No. 14549 of April 26,
1977                                                   4.02
D        Five-Year Plan of the Mining and
Metallurgical Sector, 1976-1980,
prepared by the Ministry of Mines
and Metallurgy in 1976                                 2.05
E        Operation Plan for 1978, prepared by
Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy in 1977               2.05
F        Mining Statistics, prepared by Ministry
of Mines and Metallurgy in 1977                          -
G        Implementation Plan for National Mineral
Exploration Fund, prepared by U.S.                     4.01
Geological Survey in 1976
H        National Mineral Exploration Fund,
Diagram of the Phases of a Project,
prepared by Ministry of Mines and                      4.03
Metallurgy in 1977



- iv -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Referred to
Reference         Title Date and Authors                          Under Paragraph
I        By-Laws of the National Mineral Exploration Fund         4.05
4.11
5.17
J        Organization of the Projects Department,
National Mineral Exploration Fund,                       4.07
prepared by FNEM in 1977
K        Organization of the Investment Depart-
ment, National Mineral Exploration Fund,                 4.08
prepared by FNEM in 1977
L        Organization and Functions Manual of National
Mineral Exploration Fund, prepared by FNEM in 1977   4.16
M        Project for Financing the National Mineral                 -
Exploration Fund, prepared by FNEM in 1979



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA credit of US$7.5
million for the National Mineral Exploration Fund (FNEM) established in
April 1977 as an autonomous public dievelopment enterprise to further mineral
exploration in Bolivia. In 1972, thes Bank recommended in a report on the
Mining and Metallurgical Sector in Bolivia (Report No. PI-14a) that mineral
exploration be encouraged, inter alia, by establishing a self-replenishing
lending fund whose loans were to be contingent upon the successful commercial
development of explored deposits. A feasibility study for such a fund was
carried out during 1975-76 by the US Geological Survey with the cooperation
of the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy (MMM) and financed under IDA credit
No. 455-BO (Report No. 276a-BO of 1974).
1.02      The FNEM has a broad mandate to undertake mineral prospection and
exploration in Bolivia. Its work program for the coming years is more spe-
cifically centered on exploration work leading from delineation of ore
deposits to preparation of feasibility studies. Its prospection activities
will be limited to preparation of promotional profiles for territories that
are being opened for pre-exploration work. Prospection and other pre-explora-
tion activities, comprising mainly geoscientific surveys and country-wide
collections of geological data, are carried out by the Servicio Geologico de
Bolivia (GEOBOL); mine development of deposits proven with FNEM/GEOBOL assis-
tance will be carried out by mine operators and financed through existing
commercial and specialized financial institutions.
1.03      To date FNEM has received 82 applications for mine exploration
from which 14 projects have been selected for detailed exploration work. The
Project scope comprises the Fund's 1979-82 Operations Program estimated to
cost about US$16 million equivalent. Under this program, FNEM expects to
undertake annually 30-40 preliminary surveys of potential mine sites which
are expected to lead, during 1979-82, to 25 prefeasibility or feasibility
studies and 5 discoveries of econom:ically exploitable mine sites. Royalties
from successful discoveries, togethesr with Government funds, bilateral
grants and the IDA credit are designed to provide continuous funding of FNEM
operations.
1.04      The Project was preappraised by the Association in November 1977.
An appraisal mission consisting of Ms. Smith and Mr. Maraboli of the Indus-
trial Projects Department and Mr. Tremblay (consultant) visited Bolivia in
April-May 1978. A follow-up mission in January 1979 reviewed the Fund's
1979-82 Operations Program and its operating policies and procedures. A
glossary of mining terms is given in Annex 1.



II. THE MINING SECTOR
A.   Structure of the Bolivian Mining Sector
2.01      Mining is a substantial factor in Bolivia's economy.  Between 1968
and 1977 the sector, excluding hydrocarbons, contributed on average 9% to
gross domestic product (GDP), 21% to Government fiscal revenues and 68% to
the country's export earnings. Sector contribution has varied to a large
degree with cyclical fluctuations in international metal prices. Over the
1973-77 five-year period, mining output increased only slightly and sector
contribution has declined to an average of 8% of GDP, 24% of fiscal revenues
and 63% of export earnings. The decline reflects the slower economic growth
in industrial countries following the 1973-74 oil price hike, depressed
metal prices, depletion of ore reserves in existing mines and lack of develop-
ment of new reserves. A steady decline in the contribution of petroleum
to exports from 35% in 1974 to 19% in 1977 has caused the Government to place
increasing importance on the mineral sector for export earnings.
BOLIVIA--Mineral Sector Contribution
(% of)
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
Gross Domestic
Product               9.2    6.7    9.3   11.1    9.5    6.4    6.7    7.9
Fiscal Revenues        27.3   14.0   18.7   40.3   32.6   18.5   14.4   14.8
Foreign Exchange
Earnings             89.6   80.3   72.4   67.2   59.5   59.2   60.6   69.3
Source: IBRD Report No. 2195-BO, 1978; Central Bank of Bolivia, Ministry of
Finance.
2.02      The mining sector in Bolivia includes (i) Corporacion Minera
de Bolivia (COMIBOL), the state-owned mining company operating 12 large-
size mine complexes, 17 concentration plants and one smelter; (ii) about
30 privately-owned, medium-size mines; and (iii) about 3,000 small mines
operated either privately or under cooperative arrangements. The following
table summarizes the characteristics of the three groups of mine operations,
and a map (IBRD No. 13840), showing the location of major mining centers, is
attached to this report.



- 3 -
BOLIVIA--Mineral Sub-Sector Characteristics
Medium-Size      Small-Scale
COMIBOL          Mines            Mines
Average sales revenues per company
in 1976 (US$ million)                 218.2             3.6             0.04
Share in value of mining exports
(1971-76)                                64%            23%              13%
Share in mine sector employment (1977)  33%               10%              57%
Productivity (1976--annual mine output  302               236              27
in tons per worker)
Source: IBRD Report No. 1251a-BO, 1976; FNEM Feasibility Report, 1975-76;
Ministry of Planning and Coordination, 1977.
2.03      Mineral output in Bolivia is dominated by tin, which, in 1977, com-
prised 66% of the country's total value of mineral exports (US$488 million),
with wolfram and zinc next most important at 9% each. Practically all of
its tin was exported either in concentrate form (68%) or as metallic product
(32%). Bolivia is the world's second largest producer of tin (13%), after
Malaysia (29%), and followed by Indonesia (11%) and Thailand (9%); it is also
the second largest tin exporter, accounting for 22% of world tin exports,
compared to 61% for Malaysia and 18% for Indonesia. In 1976, Bolivia's tin
output reached 30,315 tons. The country's heavy dependence on tin is of
great concern to the Government, the more so since Bolivian mines are the
world's highest cost producers of the metal. Although international tin
prices have experienced about a 20% real increase in the 1970's, the profit
margin of the Bolivian tin industry has fallen to below 10%.
2.04      The relatively small amount of domestic smelting and refining
activities are for the most part carried out by the state-owned Empresa
Nacional de Fundiciones (ENAF) and COMIBOL. In 1977, domestic processing was
limited to 40% of tin output, 55% of the relatively small amount of bismuth
output and 10% of antimony output. ENAF, operating the Vinto plant near
Oruro, was responsible for about three quarters of domestic tin smelting with
the balance processed by several small smelters. Current expansion of the
plant and the construction of an adjacent low-grade smelter are expected to
allow about 83% of tin concentrates produced in Bolivia to be smelted within
the country by 1981.
2.05      The Government attaches high priority to development of the mining
sector. Sector objectives include greater efficiencies in mining operations,
improved export marketing systems, expansion of smelting and refining capa-
city, increased mineral diversification and increased ore reserve development.



- 4-
B.   Principal Sector Problems
2.06      The Bank reviewed Bolivia's mining and metallurgical sector pros-
pects and problems in 1972 (Report No. PI-14a) and again in 1976 (Report No.
1251a-BO) and recommended changes in policies with respect to taxation,
financing and exploration. The main issues are summarized below.
1.   Taxation
2.07      During the 1970's annual tax receipts from the mining sector con-
tributed between 14% and 40% of the Government's fiscal resources. Mining
companies are not subject to income taxation but rather to a regalia and
export tax which together constitute 90% of tax revenues from the sector.
Both taxes are levied upon the gross sales value of concentrates and result
in a substantially higher tax burden for Bolivian tin mining firms than
experienced by their competitors in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, where
taxes are at least partly based on income. High effective rates of taxation
directly increase the production costs which for tin, Bolivia's major export,
already exceed comparable costs in other producing countries (para. 2.10).
Production is only marginally profitable, except from relatively high-grade
ore deposits (1% grade of ore for tin).
International Comparison of Tin Industry Taxation
(% of Sales Revenues)
Tin Price Quotation
(US$/lb)               Bolivia    Malaysia    Thailand    Indonesia
3.08                  27.4         12.9         21.8          10
4.00                  31.7         12.9         22.6           10
5.00                  35.0         13.3         24.1          10
Source: Taxation and the Mining Sector in Bolivia, Harvard Institute
for International Development (HIID), 1975.
2.08      Bolivia's present tax system materially inhibits mineral production,
investment and development, because taxation on gross sales revenue, rather
than on corporate income, discourages exploitation of those deposits that are
not high grade and discourages investments in new capacity. The added costs
of mining and processing of low-grade ore relative to metal-in-concentrate
produced and of investments, for example, in beneficiation improvements, are
expenses that are not deductible before taxation and therefore not attractive
undertakings to the mine owner.



2.09      In 1975, the Harvard Institute for International Development made
a comprehensive study, financed by the Association (para. 2.15) on taxation
and the mining sector in Bolivia. The report advised that significant reform
was essential if the mining sector wEas to continue to have an important role
in the economy. The Harvard report recommended introducing a corporate income
tax in two steps. The first step would entail regular and systematic updat-
ing of presumed costs used in calculating the present regalia in order to
reflect costs more adequately. Computation of presumed income would be made
on the basis of "official" prices established by the Ministerio de Minas y
Metalurgia (MMM) on an explicit basis, for example, through price indexing.
In addition, the first step called for the replacement of the export tax by a
2.5%-3.5% production royalty on net revenues. The second step would entail
the introduction of taxes based on net income. This step, however, requires
that mining firms adopt consistent and uniform accounting systems. The
Harvard study determined that there Were serious inadequacies in accounting
structures in most mining enterprises in Bolivia. In 1976, the Government
requested design of a standard accounting system for the mining industry from
the Canadian International Development Association (CIDA). CIDA completed its
design in December 1977 and has been requested to assist in implementing the
recommended system.
2.   High Production Costs
2.10      Bolivian tin production is primarily from underground deposits in
rugged, mountainous areas; mining costs exceed mining costs associated with
the alluvial mines in Southeast Asia by 21%-32%. Bolivia is landlocked and
has formidable transportation obstacles within the country due to the geo-
graphic remoteness of its mines. Freight costs are relatively high for
shipment of mineral exports as well als for imports of mining equipment and
consumables. However, high mine operating costs are also caused by inadequate
mine development planning, outmoded techniques of mechanized mining and lack
of infrastructure, particularly railway transportation, and to a lesser extent
energy supply. Sharp increases in wages and social benefits have contributed
to high operating costs since 1973; for example, the average wage and benefits
per worker at COMIBOL increased by 8-3% during the 1974-77 period in US$ terms.
At the same time, the exchange rate has remained fixed while domestic price
increases have exceeded international inflation, thus reducing profitability
markedly.
3.   Lack of Exploration
2.11      Mining in Bolivia has been from underground vein-type deposits
that cannot be fully assessed before mining begins but require on-going
exploration and proving of reserves to support production. Bolivia's ore
reserves have declined seriously. COMIBOL's proven reserves of tin were but
4.5 years of production in 1967 and by 1974 had declined to 2.8 years of
production. While consistent data on ore reserves are not available for
medium and small mines, preliminary estimates indicate that ore reserves of
medium mines are no more than 2 years of production, a dangerous and ineffi-
cient, low level.



- 6 -
2.12      Little exploration has been undertaken in Bolivia since the 1930's.
About 35% of national territory has been held by the Government as fiscal
reserves where private exploration, until recently, was not allowed. GEOBOL
estimates that less than US$10 million has been expended on exploration in the
last decade, or only 0.5% of the total gross value of sales. This modest
percentage compares to average expenditures of 1% of sales value by medium-
size companies and up to 10% by large-size companies in Canada. COMIBOL spent
US$5.1 million on exploration and prospection between 1965-74, of which nearly
three-quarters was for expansion of deposits in which known reserves are
already mined. GEOBOL spent US$1.8 million during the same period mainly on
geological mapping and mineralogy. Medium-size mining firms in Bolivia have
not usually undertaken exploration but have increased reserves by acquiring
mining properties of small mines that cannot secure finance for expansion.
2.13      The lack of exploration means that ore reserves are not being iden-
tified at the same rate at which they are being depleted. GDP from mining
increased by less than 1% p.a. between 1973-77, while total mining output
decreased by an average annual rate of 0.4% from 136,225 metric tons to
133,996 metric tons. 1/ Inadequate exploration has also exacerbated the
problem of declining ore grades, a natural trend in Bolivia where mining
has been practiced for nearly 400 years. The trend of declining ore grades
is demonstrated by COMIBOL's recent production, summarized below.
COMIBOL--Tin Production and Ore Concentrate
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
High-Grade Production
Production ('000 T)              25.6    27.4    33.1    28.7    30.3    26.8
Grade of Concentrate (%)         50.9    50.2    46.5    46.0    45.7    45.7
Low-Grade Production
Production ('000 T)              11.5    12.9      6.0      7.1     8.6      7.5
Grade of Concentrate (%)         26.3    24.4    18.6    19.2    19.4    18.2
4.   Mining Finance
2.14      During 1965-74, only 9% of total banking system credit went to
mining including mineral stocks, compared to 11% for import financing, 27%
for manufacturing and over 35% for agriculture. The low level of mining
finance was largely due to the scarcity of profitable and sound mine invest-
ment projects. Credit to private mining is extended primarily by Banco
Minero (BAMIN) and by Banco Industrial, S.A. (BISA). BAMIN was established
in 1936 to provide credits, marketing and technical assistance to private
operators, mainly of small mines. Between 1972 and 1975, BAMIN extended
US$13.6 million primarily in short- and medium-term loans for working capital
1/   Excluding a small amount of gold production for which comparable data
is not available.



- 7 -
and equipment requirements. BISA was created in 1974 to finance manufactur-
ing, agribusiness and mining projects. By the end of 1977 BISA had extended
US$12.2 million in loans to medium-size mining enterprises for modernization
and expansion of existing mines, or L9% of its loan portfolio. As BISA
increases its share capital and lending operations, it is expected to increase
its lending to mining projects as well. In addition, Bolivian mining enter-
prises have obtained short-term credit from suppliers, foreign commercial
banks and foreign metal trading companies.
2.15      Bank Group support to mineral sector development has been provided
in three projects. The first, a US$,6.2 million IDA credit (Report No. 276a-BO,
Credit No. 455-BO) approved in 1974 included (i) US$5 million to BISA for
financing expansion and modernization of predominantly medium-size mines;
(ii) US$0.85 million for a national survey of small mines to be carried out
by GEOBOL; and (iii) US$0.35 million for technical assistance, including a
study of the mining taxation system (para. 2.09), a feasibility study for a
national mineral exploration fund which led to the Project at hand, and
technical assistance to the MMM for project evaluation and planning and
equipment for data collection. The second, a Bank loan of US$10 million
(Report No. 1132a-BO, Loan No. 1290-BC) to the Government of Bolivia, approved
in June 1976, increased BISA's capacity to finance both industrial and private
mining enterprise projects. The third, a Bank loan (Report No. 1236b-BO, Loan
No. 1331-BO) of US$12 million to the Government of Bolivia, approved in
September 1976, included (i) US$9.0 million to develop small mining through a
credit program to be managed by BAiMIN; (ii) US$1.9 million for technical
assistance to GEOBOL to continue its survey of small mines and to prepare
preinvestment studies of small mining projects; and (iii) US$1.1 million for
assistance, to the HMM in policy planning and cadastral survey and to BAMIN in
management control and project appraisal techniques.
2.16      The first two Bank Group projects, described above, have benefited
the mining sector, principally the medium-size mines that have both estab-
lished operations and identifiable project requirements. BISA has almost
fully committed its share of the IDA credit and about 20% of Loan 1290-BO.
Delay in disbursing the loan results from BISA's stringent conditions upon
lending and slow development of sound mining projects. The technical and
managerial competence of BISA, GEOBOL and the MMM has been enhanced by the
Bank projects, which also have prepared the way for possible policy changes
in mining taxation and exploration through the 1975 study of mining taxation
(para. 2.09), the 1975-76 feasibility study of a mineral exploration fund
(para. 1.01) and the small mines inventory survey (para. 2.15). The Bank
loan for small-stale mining development has encountered delays due to slow
preparation of preinvestment studies by GEOBOL, lack of cooperation between
BAMIN and GEOBOL and inadequate program promotion. The Bank has recently
agreed with the MMM and BAMIN on procedures for financing gradual mininl
development, which should strengthen the subproject pipeline and speed up
loan utilization.
C.   Exploration Programs
2.17      Over the last few years, the Government has been recognizing the
importance of identifying new ore reserves. Government budgetary support of



- 8 -
exploration and prospection activities of GEOBOL, COMIBOL and COBOEN 1/,
reflects the priority attached by the Government to the identification of
new and higher grade ore reserves so as to diversify and intensify produc-
tion. In addition to support of these activities, the Government created in
1977 the National Mineral Exploration Fund (FNEM) to provide another financing
mechanism for mineral prospecting and exploration activities.
2.18      GEOBOL has been the primary agency gathering information for pros-
pecting and exploration in Bolivia. Its objectives are to: (i) contribute
to the geological investigation of Bolivia and effect improvements in the
knowledge, development and use of the nation's geological reserves; (ii)
compile and expand the geological data base through geological mapping,
geophysical and geochemical studies, satellite and aerial photography and
actual physical exploration; (iii) maintain an inventory of mineral proper-
ties; (iv) establish an inventory of small mines; and (v) provide technical
advice to private and public mining operations.
2.19      In addition to these current functions, the Government plans for
GEOBOL to sponsor over the next several years the following projects:
(i) a remote sensing program currently undertaken with the LANDSAT 2/ to
provide geological, geomorphological and hydrological maps of the country;
(ii) a program to prospect and explore alluvial gold and tin deposits close to
La Paz, begun in April 1976 with the assistance and financing of the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany; (iii) a series of projects in mineral
prospection of the Cordillera region undertaken by the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP); and (iv) a program partly financed by the British
Government to carry out geological prospection and exploration of the pre-
cambric shield in the region of Beni and Santa-Cruz.
2.20      COMIBOL for the most part investigates known deposits for expansion
within its present concession areas. Its 1976-80 program includes 29 explora-
tion projects of which the most important are (i) the exploration of the
Catavi tin deposits for development of an open pit mine; (ii) tunnelling in
the Caracoles tin mine to determine whether it may be economical to expand
existing facilities; (iii) sampling and evaluation of the Playa Verde alluvial
tin deposits with assistance from the London Tin Corporation; and (iv) drill-
ing of the Centenario alluvial tin deposits.
2.21      COBOEN, whose role includes the exploration, exploitation, bene-
ficiation and commercialization of radioactive minerals and possibly the
production of nuclear energy, will continue exploration of uranium ore in the
Cotaje and Tholapalca deposits and in the Altiplano region. Exploration
has been carried out jointly with bilateral Italian assistance since 1974.
1/   Commission Boliviana de Energia Nuclear.
2/   Formerly named Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) of the United
States National Aeronautic and Space Administration.



- 9 -
If the exploration proves successful, COBOEN and its Italian partners plan
to engage in mine development and processing of the ores.
III. THE ROLE OF MINERAL EXPLORATION FUNDS
A.   Objectives of Mineral Exploration Funds
3.01      International or national mineral exploration funds sponsored by
governments represent one of several means of increasing mineral exploration
activities. The establishment of mineral exploration funds emerged during
the past two decades when exploration expenditures world-wide and in specific
countries appeared to decline in relative terms. This trend indicated not
only declining profitability in the mining industry, but also increasing costs
and risks associated with exploration. Statistics on Canada, one of the
world's largest mineral producing countries, indicate that return on equity in
the mining industry has declined andL is relatively low: in 1975 the return on
metal mining was 7.7% compared to 10.8% and 11.8% for food and beverage
manufacturing, respectively, and 13% for oil and gas.  At the same time, the
average cost per economic mineral discovery, which in 1951 was US$3.4 million
(1977 terms), had increased at least four times by 1975. Thus, given the
increased cost of exploration, increased financial risk is added to the
already great geological risks of exploration.
3.02      Diminishing exploration is an even more acute problem in developing
countries that are dependent on the mineral sector and that have promising but
undeveloped mineral potential.  Although developing countries are estimated to
account for between 38% and 50% of the reserves of each mineral with major
productive uses worldwide, their share in recent world exploration expendi-
tures has been very low. Data for the early 1970's indicate that as much as
80% of world exploration expenditures 1/ were concentrated in four developed
countries:  Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United States.  A 1977
UN study of mining indicated probable demand for exploration finance in
developing countries of US$210 million a year, based on investment require-
ments for iron ore, copper, aluminum, zinc, nickel and lead; this compares to
actual exploration expenditures estimated to range from US$35-60 million per
year since 1975.
3.03      Traditional sources of exploration finance in developing countries
have been the large-scale international mining companies or the individual
explorer. With exploration costs steadily increasing, the role of the indi-
vidual mineral explorer has become negligible, and only companies or Govern-
ments have the resource capability to make the relatively large capital
investments required for exploration. Only they have or can arrange for
access to potential mineral territcries to spread the high risk that explora-
tion entails if limited to a single deposit. A recent UN Centre for Natural
Resources, Energy and Transport study has estimated that total expenditures to
prove one large-scale mineral discovery leading to an economically justified
exploitation project is likely to be in the US$5-20 million range.
1/   Excluding centrally planned economies.



- 10 -
3.04      International mining companies, however, are increasingly reluctant
to undertake exploration in developing countries for reasons of perceived
political risk, as well as possible inadequate financial gains. The large
amount of investment required for exploration and development and the long
time span entailed (between 6-12 years) before any return can be realized make
companies less willing to invest in countries where they perceive either
political instability or host country goals incompatible with foreign private
mining interests. With depressed markets for many mineral commodities since
1974, the value of new mineral discoveries has not increased commensurately
to outweigh the increased non-economic mining and exploration risks in devel-
oping countries.
3.05      Developed and developing countries that are interested in mineral
production have sought various financial alternatives and supplements to
increase the exploration activities necessary for growth in mineral produc-
tion. Lacking private exploration activities, Governments have increasingly
assumed exploration risk by funding exploration ventures or establishing
national mineral exploration funds to support exploration activities within
national boundaries. In addition, exploration finance has been mobilized
on an international basis through multilateral and bilateral assistance
programs to developing countries. State mining enterprises have been the
more common undertaking by such countries as Brazil, Chile, Guyana, India,
Indonesia, Peru, Zaire and Zambia. With the exception of Cia. Vale do Rio
Doce (CVRD) in Brazil, however, most state enterprises have not generated
sufficient income to support national exploration on a wide scale. Bilateral
assistance has been offered by several countries, primarily Germany, Japan,
Canada and Sweden, with assistance mostly tied to procurement and purchase
agreements with the donor country. Other countries, for example, the USSR
and China, have provided infrastructural support to exploration and develop-
ment of minerals in developing countries. International assistance through
the UN has been limited due to the exploration and financing risks and the
relatively large financial commitments required by mineral exploration.
Characteristics and success rates of several of the major international,
bilateral and national exploration funds are discussed briefly below.
B.   Scope and Characteristics of Major Existing Exploration Funds
1.   The United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
3.06      The UNDP began operations in 1959 with a relatively small portion
of its budget allocated to minerals development, predominantly in the early
phases of the exploration cycle. Its objectives in mineral development are
to strengthen the economies of developing countries through mineral explora-
tion projects, training in geosciences and institution building. Total UNDP
commitments and expenditures for mineral development (through 1976) were
US$132 million, of which about US$95 million was expended for 123 explora-
tion projects.



- 1 1 --
3.07      The program has resulted in 21 discoveries, with an estimated
potential mineral value of US$26 billion. Exploitation has been limited
to four of these discoveries, however, because of difficulties in attracting
capital for subsequent feasibility studies and mine development. However,
three additional discoveries are expected to be commencing production within
the next five years, implying success ratios of 1:18 in terms of promising
discoveries and 1:31 in terms of actual exploitation.
2.   The United Nations Revolving Fund for
Natural Resources Exploration (UNRFNRE)
3.08      The UN Revolving Fund was created by the UNDP Governing Council in
June 1975 in accordance with the UN Economic and Social Council's Resolution
1962 (LIV) of May 18, 1973, and General Assembly Resolution 3167 (XXVIII) of
December 17, 1973, to meet the need for increased natural resources exploration
in developing countries. The Fund is financed by voluntary contributions from
member countries that at the end of 1978 stood at US$23 million with replenish-
ment contribution from successful projects. Replenishment contributions are
set at 2% of the value of annual production over no more than 15 years of
active production, total replenishment contributions being limited to 15 times
the original investment by the Fund.
3.09      Exploration work is defined by the UN Revolving Fund to include:
(a)  Preliminary Activities:  appraisal of applicant-
supplied data and field inspection;
(b)  Technical Reconnaissance:  definition of objectives
for detailed prospection t:hrough photogeology,
geochemistry, geophysics and other techniques; and
(c)  Detailed Evaluation:  mapping, detailed geochemical
and geophysical research, trenching, sinking of shafts
and bore holes, limited treatment tests and preliminary
studies of infrastructure, marketing and profitability.
To limit activities to actual mineral exploration, the UIN Revolving Fund
does not provide financing for feasibility studies and subsequent mine devel-
opment; it also does not finance oil and gas exploration.
3.10      Operations of the UN Revolving Fund have started slowly.  As of
August 1978, only 10 projects had been approved for exploration, and field
work began on 3 projects. The initial slow start of the UN Revolving Fund
is due in part to two interrelated factors: (i) a reluctance on the part
of developing countries to subsidize with successful ventures--by way of
replenishment contributions--exploration in other countries; and (ii) a
tendency among member countries to submit relatively unpromising projects,
but, for good prospects, to mobilize funds with repayment terms perceived to
be less onerous. The Fund is presently reviewing its policies; commitments
by late 1978 were about US$2.0 million and are expected to reach about US$10
million annually by 1985.



- 12 -
3.   Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM), Mexico
3.11      CRM is the third in sequence of mineral resource and exploration
programs dating back to the 1930's and is funded by the Mexican Government. In
1958, the Instituto de los Recursos Minerales was incorporated into the Consejo
de Recursos Naturales No Renovables, and it was later renamed the Consejo de
Recursos Minerales. CRM is a decentralized public agency. Its objectives are
to: (i) carry out and coordinate the geological investigation of the Mexican
soil; and (ii) promote and assist individuals and enterprises operating in the
mining sector in the exploration and evaluation of specific mineral prospects.
It thus is involved in the full range of mineral exploration activities.
Under its second objective, CRM provides credits for 90% of exploration costs,
repayments of which are contingent upon identification of an economically
exploitable deposit. If exploration is successful, the borrower must start
to repay after one year of grace the credit amount plus a 20% premium and a
12% annual interest charge on the outstanding balance. In addition, when
production resulting from the exploration commences, the borrower must pay
royalties of 1%-3% of the net value of production. CRM thus spreads a portion
of the risk of financing among borrowers.
3.12      In 1978, CRM's assets totalled about US$15 million, and its annual
operating budget reached US$13.9 million equivalent. CRM estimates that about
50% of the costs of exploration financed through its contingent credits are
met through income earned from interest and royalties on successful projects;
for the remainder, CRM receives annual Government subsidies.
3.13      Over the past years, CRM has investigated 398 projects and undertaken
preliminary sampling and studies, detailed reserve evaluation and feasibility
studies on 70 projects. Of these, 22 have resulted in proven reserves for
commercial exploitation, implying a success ratio of 1:18.
4.   Quebec Mining Exploration Company (SOQUEM), Canada
3.14      SOQUEM is a stock company established in 1965 and wholly owned
by the provincial government of Quebec; its objectives are to participate with
the private sector in mining exploration in the Province of Quebec. It is
100% equity financed and receives annual capital contributions from the
provincial government. SOQUEM's policy is to acquire an equity participation
in exploration or exploitation projects and to provide technical inputs in
proportion to its share holdings. It is also designed to become a holding
company managing mining investments and reinvesting the dividends received
from these investment(s) in exploration. Dividends received are expected to
allow SOQUEM to become self-sustaining. SOQUEM by design, therefore, carries
not only the risk of successful exploration and subsequent production but also
the mine operating risks as the latter determines profitability and dividend
payments.
3.15      SOQUEM has a paid-in capital of US$37.7 million and has been aver-
aging annual exploration expenditures of US$4.4 million. The number of its
exploration projects is now reaching 300. It is expected that SOQUEM's
exploration expenditures will stabilize at US$3.5-4.5 million per year, an



- 13 -
amount which is estimated to be generated from dividends from successful
projects by 1985. SOQUEM engages in all phases of the exploration cycle,
from the most preliminary mapping and prospecting to and including feasi-
bility studies. So far five discoveries have been brought into production;
one very small deposit has been mined out. The average time between the com-
mencement of exploration and production has been seven years. Disregarding
this time lag, the ratio of successful to unsuccessful projects is approxi-
mately 1:60 in terms of actual exploitation.
5.   Office of Mineral Exploration (OME), United States
3.16       Since 1950 the US Department of the Interior has set up three
successive programs of financial assistance to private industry to stimulate
the exploration of mineral resources in the United States: the Defense
Minerals Administration (DMA), 1950-51; the Defense Minerals Exploration
Administration (DMEA), 1951-58; and the Office of Minerals Exploration (OME)
which started in 1958. Each of these programs provided loans for mineral
exploration projects whose repayment has been contingent upon exploration
success and mine exploitation. Total Government expenditures on these pro-
grams through mid-1977 amounted to US$28.2 million, not including adminis-
trative and technical service charges. Repayments of the loans, interest
and other charges to the Government totalled IJS$7.6 million through mid-1977.
3.17      ONE offers its exploration loans for 36 eligible minerals.  Repay-
ment of these loans is based on a 57 royalty on the gross proceeds from ore
sales, to be paid over the life of the new ore deposit or for periods of not
less than 10, and not more than 25 years, or until the Government's contribu-
tion is repaid with interest, whichever occurs first. Maximum OME financing
varies from 50% to 75% of exploration costs, depending on the type of mineral
prospected and may not exceed US$250,000 per exploration effort. These con-
ditions limit OME financing to small- to medium-size prospects or to a cata-
lytic role for attracting private exploration financing.
3.18      The OME program financed 211 exploration projects from 1958 to
mid-1977, of which 57 (1:4) have led to proven mineable reserves with an
estimated value of US$163 million. The costs of the exploration projects
totalled US$13.3 million, of which the Government's share was US$4.9 mil-
lion. Of these US$4.9 million, losses written off were US$2.6 million. The
earlier (1951-58) DMEA program financed 1,159 projects, of which 399 have
led to proven mineable reserves (1:3) and 97 have repaid their loans in full
(1:12). The ONE program has had more limited success in terms of numbers
of projects in which it has participated because, as opposed to the DMEA
program, large mine operators were not eligible for financing.
6.   Metal Mining Exploration Agency (MMEA), Japan
3.19      Japan established MMEA in 1963, and its exploration activities are
funded by grants from the Japanese Government. The agency's responsibilities
have grown from financing mineral prospection and exploration of Japanese
enterprises in Japan to financing exploration activities of Japanese enter-
prises abroad. In 1970, MMEA began cooperative exploration in developing



- 14 -
countries and since 1974 has established a data collection and information
center. It also operates a vessel for geological research into undersea
mineral resources.
3.20      MMEA finances base metal exploration through loans on a 6-10 year
repayment basis at low interest rates or through loan guarantees. The Agency,
unlike other national exploration funds, does not normally carry the explora-
tion risk but relies on the creditworthiness of the sponsors for loan repay-
ment independent of exploration success. Only in the case of uranium is the
loan repayment contingent on successful discovery.
3.21      Of 89 reported mineral exploration programs, 17 were brought into
production (1:5). MMEA expenditures for the 17 successful projects were
US$50.2 million or US$2.9 million per project for all 89 undertakings. The
delay between mineral discovery and start of commercial production ranged
from 3-15 years and averaged 8 years. The high success rate of 1:5 and
prompt development of the discoveries indicate that MMEA-financed programs
concentrate on highly promising mineral exploration prospects, well advanced
in their development. Such portfolio composition is to be expected since
MMEA provides loan financing and the risks remain with the sponsor, who
undertakes the crucial screening before loan application.
C.   Summary Experience of Funds
3.22      As illustrated above, the scope of work, financing conditions and
success rates of the existing national and international exploration funds
vary widely. Exploration stages financed range from low-cost, high-risk
prospecting to relatively high-cost, low-risk feasibility work. Financing
terms vary from standard loans to loans contingent upon successful oper-
ation. Among the latter, repayment obligations may be as high as 15 times
the original exploration cost, equal to the original amount plus interest
or tied to dividends independent of the size of the original exploration
expenditures or loans. The sample of operating exploration funds is too
small to correlate conditions of these funds and successful operation; how-
ever, the following observations can be made.
3.23      Funds that have placed the financial risk of exploration in whole
or in part on the loan applicant have been most successful in terms of
mine discoveries per exploration projects. This, however, has been achieved
at the cost of narrowing the focus of the exploration undertaking and there-
fore its stimulus for exploring a wide territory. MMEA, for example, with a
success ratio of 1:5, finances companies that due to the unconditional
repayment guarantee are undertaking with the MMEA funds the later, less
risky, stages of exploration, once detailed reserve exploration has for
the most part been completed. SOQUEM, on the other hand, carries the full
burden of exploration risks, plus the risk of unsuccessful financial operation,
together with private enterprises under joint venture arrangements. Such
risk-sharing lessens the stringency of conditions under which exploration
can take place; and while it allows more exploration projects to be under-
taken, it is bound to lead to a lower ratio of successful to unsuccessful
projects. This has proved to be worthwhile in identifying new mines, but



- 15 -
has required (i) greater (at least initially) government subsidization (on
the part of the Government of Quebec); and (ii) highly qualified staff to
undertake project selection and supervision.
3.24      The inherent risk in exploration, as demonstrated by the low success
rate of some exploration ventures, underlines the importance of -7ide terri-
torial coverage, either through international exposure or substantial, poten-
tial mineral wealth within national boundaries. All existing national mineral
exploration funds are in countries with a large number of potential mineral
prospects which, in the minimum and long run, makes risk diversification
possible.
3.25      Highly professional management and technical skills have been major
ingredients in the funds' performances. Successful performance of existing
funds has been characterized by clearly defined goals and objectives with
respect to exploration, as well as stringent application of prospect selection
criteria. The necessity for professional independence in technical and
financial decisions regarding exploration projects has been for the most
part well respected. At SOQUEM, for example, measures have been employed
to attract highly qualified staff, offering bonus systems for excelled per-
formance and profit-sharing incentives to staff.
3.26      Finally, public support tc, each of the national funds has been of
prime importance in their establishment if not ultimate continuation, depend-
ing upon financial design. Governments have assessed the economic needs of
their respective countries and taken decisions on the extent to which it was
in the public interest to establish and subsequently subsidize these funds.
Continued political and financial support has been important in the case of
each fund.
3.27      The Government of Bolivia has similarly assessed the economic needs
and financial requirements for a mineral exploration fund in its territory.
It has accepted the importance of stimulating mineral exploration and endorsed
a scheme for a national exploration fund in which initial Government subsidi-
zation will generate a revolving fund which is ultimately to generate a
certain continuous level of exploralion. Bolivia, comprising a geological
territory with possible and probable reserves far in excess of known reserves,
fulfills the pre-condition for the spreading of risks needed for an explora-
tion fund. The factors affecting the Fund's operations, such as scope and
quality of its work, and the degree of risk-sharing, subsidization, financial
resources and institutional independence, will determine whether the Bolivian
exploration fund will meet the objective of forcefully stimulating new mineral
exploration and do so at lowest possible economic cost.
IV. FNEM--THE NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND OF BOLIVIA
A.   Background
4.01       In 1972, as noted in para. 1.01, the Bank recommended in a report
on the Bolivian mining and metallurgical sector (Report No. PI-14a) that a



- 16 -
mineral exploration fund be considered by the Government to increase explo-
ration and support the continued growth of the mining sector. In 1975, a
feasibility study for the exploration fund was undertaken by the US Geo-
logical Survey, with the cooperation of the MMM and financed under an IDA
credit (No. 455-BO). The study was revised and expanded in 1976 by the MMM
to include an analysis of the technical, financial and administrative design
of such a fund. The revised study provided the basis for the creation of
the National Mineral Exploration Fund (FNEM).
B.   Ownership
4.02      The FNEM was created by Decree No. 14549 on April 26, 1977.  The
Fund was established as a public development enterprise, with legal identity
and with financial and management autonomy. The Fund is wholly state-owned
and responsible to the MMM. While the Fund operates under the aegis of that
Ministry, the Government reconfirmed its desire to allow the Fund to operate
as an independent entity, instead of as a Government agency, by incorporating
FNEM as a public development enterprise. The chosen corporate form should
help to minimize political interference in Fund operations. The Government
has agreed that no modification will be made in the Decree-law creating the
fund without IDA's agreement.
C.   Objectives
4.03      Fund objectives are defined sufficiently broadly to provide a
framework for general mineral prospection, specific mine exploration as well
as planning assistance for nationwide exploitation of mineral resources in
Bolivia. The Fund's scope of work is defined in the Decree No. 14549 and
encompasses in particular:
(a) Regional prospection: This includes geological mapping,
regional surveying, selecting of target areas and
geological, geochemical and geophysical investigation
of given prospects. The Fund is to: (i) channel
internal and external finance for regional prospec-
tion programs carried out by specialized State agen-
cies such as COBOEN or GEOBOL; (ii) finance regional
prospection programs; (iii) help develop a promotional
program for prospection as well as exploration activi-
ties; and (iv) review all prospecting programs pro-
posed by GEOBOL;
(b) Exploration: This includes required detailed surveying,
mapping, surface and underground drilling and lab-
oratory testing to establish contents and quality
of known mineral deposits, appraisal of the economic
value of the mineral reserves discovered and all
feasibility studies required to prepare for the
exploitation of mineral reserves. To execute a min-
eral exploration program FNEM has the authority to:



- 17 -
(i) give credits with repaymnent contingent on suc-
cessful exploration to public or private entities
for mining exploration projects; (ii) supervise,
control and evaluate the financial, technical and
administrative status of projects financed in whole
or in part by the Fund; and (iii) present and recom-
mend projects with demonstrated technical, economic and
financial feasibility to national and international
sources of finance for exploitation of the minerals;
and
(c)  Revolving Characteristics:  FNEM is to use whatever
funds it has recovered fromL investments in prospection
and exploration to reinvest in additional prospection
and exploration projects. As noted, repayment of loans
to mining entities for exploration is contingent on the
successful identification and subsequent exploitation of
mineral reserves. The decree establishing the Fund does
not specify how and to what: extent prospection or explora-
tion expenditures must be recovered from successful mining
projects. Nevertheless, Fund management hopes that royal-
ties from successful mining projects will eventually suf-
fice to sustain FNEM operations.
D.   Organization and Management
4.04      The FNEM Board of Directors has seven members.  Its Chairman, the
president, is the Minister of Mines and Metallurgy or his representative.
The other Board members are representatives of the President of the Republic,
the Ministries of Mines and Metallurgy and of Finance and Planning and repre-
sentatives from BAMIN and GEOBOL. The Board meets once a month; the president
and four Board members constitute a quorum. The General Manager and Legal
Advisor attend the meetings but have no vote. The main functions of the Board
include, in addition to the usual functions of policy formulation and finan-
cial supervision: (i) the approval of all exploration, prospecting and service
contracts to be undertaken by the Fund as recommended by the General Manager;
(ii) the review of the decision of the General Manager to reject or postpone
decisions on applications for exploration financing; and (iii) the approval of
contracts for the purchase of goods or services exceeding US$30,000 equivalent.
4.05      FNEM by-laws were approved through the issuance of Decree No.
16413 dated April 30, 1979, and provide a sound basis for operation. FNEM has
agreed that it will not modify its by-laws without IDA's agreement. Review of
FNEM internal regulations, however, indicates certain areas of concern that
could limit procurement under the proposed IDA credit. Therefore, agreement
was reached with the Fund, that IDA-financed goods would be procured according
to guidelines for procurement under World Bank loans and IDA credits. FNEM
also agreed that its own regulations on contracting of consultants and mining
services requiring mandatory joint venture arrangement would not apply to
IDA-financed services.



- 18 -
4.06      The General Manager, Mr. J. Villalobos, is FNEM's top executive
officer. He is a geologist by training with limited, but good experience
in his field and much initiative. He was appointed to this position upon
the Fund's creation.  As shown in the organization chart of FNEM on the
following page, he is assisted by Mr. J. Rubin, a geological engineer and
Chief of the Projects Department, and Mr. L. Pereira, an economist, the Chief
of the Investment Department.  At present, the staff of FNEM totals 53,
including 28 professionals.  FNEM staffing is sufficient to handle its pro-
jected Operations Program (para. 5.04). IDA has alerted FNEM to the need of
limiting additional staff increases to prevent administrative costs from
encroaching on its Program.
4.07      FNEM's operating units most directly involved in exploration project
decisions are the Projects and Investment Departments and the Legal Counsel.
The responsibilities of the Projects Department are to establish the work
plan for new projects for general prospecting and exploration and to carry
out a preliminary survey of exploration projects for which applications for
financing have been received. The Department also has the responsibility to
control, supervise and evaluate all subsequent work on prospecting/explora-
tion projects. The Projects Department has three divisions, each of which
is responsible for a different phase of project work. The first has respon-
sibility for technical evaluation of exploration projects, the second for
economic evaluation of exploration programs and the third for promotion of
prospection programs.
4.08      The Investment Department is composed of 2 divisions, the Financ-
ing Division, which (i) determines the financial requirements of the Fund for
purposes of the annual budget and additional external support; (ii) analyzes
the financial status of the mining entities that have applied to FNEM for
financing; and (iii) examines the future cash flow position of these enti-
ties assuming the exploration project is successful; and the Investment
Control Division, which controls the use of FNEM credits and repayments in
FNEM projects that have resulted in newly identified ore reserves which are
being commercially exploited.
4.09      The Legal Counsel has particular importance for the Fund since
major legal problems over concession rights are common for the small- and
medium-size properties in Bolivia. His main function is presently the careful
screening of the mining rights of applicants which will ensure that FNEM funds
and staff resources are not wasted on mines for which ownership is legally
doubtful.



- 19 -
BOLIVIA
FNEM ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Pnesident Minister of Mines and Metallurgy
Members. One representative of each of the follow ng
Institutions: Office of the President of the
Republic, M niecry of Mines and Metallugy,
Ministry of Finance. Min,str, of Planning.
BAMIN, and GEODOL.
|   EN ERAL MANAGER
Jamre Villalobos
3 Seo rtetrins
Finnl Council
|PUBLIC RELATIONS COORDINATOR                                                                                                                                LEGAL COJNSNELOR
I S.rentry
PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                                             ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT                                     INVESTMENT DEPARTMENT
Jaime Rubyn                                                         Victor Jordan                                                Lois Perelre
F. P.Sec rectar.,v                                                                                                          1 SwretaSr
TECHNICAL DIVISION               ECONOMIC DIVISION               PROSPECTING DIVISION                 I2 Aocountnts                          FINANCING DIVISION               |INVESTMENT CONTROL DIVISION
6 E.ploration Geologists      1  2 Proieot Evaluation             2 Prospenting GeoIist.              1 C_shier                               2 Ficancing Anelysts                    2 In-nstmn-t Analysts
2 M,ne Engineers                                                                                    1Wranfhouse 8upe,A-o
I Surve.y.,                                                                                         2 P-rhasers
2 Field Arsistants                                                                                  2 Messengers                                                                        World W Buk   20109
2 Dr.ft.-e                                                                                          t Dri-e
2 Drill Oper.t.rs
O ri-er
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



- 20 -
4.10      A Financial Committee has been established at the suggestion of
IDA to broaden the base for project decision-making that initially was the
sole resposibility of the General Manager. The Committee is composed of the
heads of the Projects and Investment Departments and the Legal Counsel. It
is to meet at least once a week to review technical and financial reports on
projects and make recommendations to the General Manager on project selection
and financing through successive stages of exploration. The Financial Com-
mittee thus broadens the basis for decision-making by the General Manager.
The establishment of the Financial Committee has been agreed to by the Fund's
Board of Directors, and provisions for its establishment and scope of work
have been included in the FNEM by-laws.
4.11      A Technical/Administrative Committee has also been established by
the Fund to review and develop operational policies. It is composed of the
General Manager, the Legal Counsel and the heads of the Projects, Investment
and Administrative Departments. It is to meet at least twice a month.
Provisions for its establishment and work objectives have also been included
in the FNEM by-laws.
4.12      The Administrative Department handles preparation of the annual
budget and financial statements and all the administrative requirements of
FNEM, including payments of salaries and consultant and service contracts.
While the organization chart shows a public relations advisor, FNEM does not
intend to fill this position until it could be foreseen that applications
might decline and active FNEM promotion among mine operators is needed.
4.13      FNEM management is generally competent.  The General Manager pro-
vides FNEM with strong leadership, is well known and esteemed in Bolivian
mining circles.  The heads of the Projects and Investment Departments equally
are competent and have the appropriate experience. Below this level, however,
the staff, while generally qualified, is lacking in experience.
E.   Past Operations, Performance and Policies
4.14      FNEM has developed an Operational Manual, governing the processing
of projects through the Fund, and detailing forms used by staff in processing
applications and accounting for exploration costs incurred. The procedures
and forms applying to exploration projects only (with none yet available for
general prospecting work) represent an organizational framework but do not
include guidelines for evaluation and decision-making.
4.15      FNEM's exploration projects are undertaken in four consecutive
stages, thereby enabling decisions on the continuation of exploration
to be made between each stage based on technical and economic evalua-
tions. FNEM thereby limits its financial exposure to one stage at a time
and minimizes the financial risk of undertaking the final and most costly
stage. The four exploration stages are as follows:
Stage A--General Survey: Preliminary on-site inspection, ore
deposit sketch preparation, ore character sampling and metallurgical evalua-
tion requiring a field trip of about one week, legal verification of the



- 21 -
ownership of the ore deposit and brieaf evaluation of project potential. This
stage is carried out by FNEM staff. It is expected to require normally about
2 weeks per project.
Stage B--Preliminary Sampling and Studies: Geological mapping
and topographical surveying of the surface and existing underground mine
workings, systematic sampling, trenching and drifting and, if necessary, geo-
physical and geochemical studies and estimation of possible reserves. This
stage is carried out by consultants or contractors using equipment and labor
of the property owner whenever possible. It is expected to take about 4
months per project.
Stage C--Detailed Reserve Evaluation:  Drilling and tunnelling,
mapping and sampling of new surface and underground workings, reserve esti-
mation and prefeasibility study. This stage, which has not yet been under-
taken by FNEM, is to be carried out by contractors using equipment and labor
from the mine owner if appropriate. Depending on the size of the prospect,
it is expected to require 1-2 years.
Stage D--Feasibility Study: Proving of reserves, requiring addi-
tional tunnelling, surveying and mapping, and complete feasibility study
including metallurgical studies, mine planning, concentration plant design,
infrastructure engineering and financial, economic and market analysis.
This stage, not yet undertaken by FNEM, is to be carried out by contracts,
using equipment and labor of the mine owner only for tunnelling work. It
is expected to require also between 1-2 years.
The four stages described are for vein deposits, 1/ which are most
typical in Bolivian geology and will be the type most frequently handled
by FNEM. A similar breakdown in Stages A-D is being used for alluvial
deposits 2/. Most Stage A investigations are undertaken by FNEM staff (paras.
4.18, 5.17), whereas during Stages B-D FNEM staff play primarily contracting,
controlling and supervisory roles.
4.16      The FNEM's Organization andl Functions Manual sets out at length the
content of each stage of the Fund's e!xploration activities and establishes in
detail the organizational units to bEc involved in decision-making. A system-
atic set of criteria to be used for project evaluation at the various explora-
tion stages has been agreed upon for inclusion in the FNEM Manual (para. 5.09).
1/   Typically narrow and steeply inclined zones of mineralized rock lying
within boundaries clearly separating them from non-mineralized rock.
2/   Typically surface deposits of mineralized materials, transported and
deposited by flowing water.



- 22 -
4.17      The Fund's General Manager has adopted two major strategies for
guiding FNEM's operations. The Fund should: (i) be self-replenishing after
a yet undefined period; and (ii) initially focus exploration on mine expan-
sions instead of prospecting and exploration work for new deposits and min-
ing enterprises. The initial focus of the Fund on exploration for mine
expansions satisfies an urgent short-term demand for exploration financing in
Bolivia and enhances the Fund's probability of success. In these cases, the
general nature of the deposits is known and the basic organization and infra-
structure for further mine exploration exist. A number of successful projects
during the first 3-5 years of operation should enable the Fund to (i) gain
experience in the execution of all exploration stages; (ii) acquire a reputa-
tion as a successful exploration financing agency; and (iii) achieve a notable
degree of fund replenishment within a relatively short period of time. The
Fund strategy is considered appropriate for initial years of operation, since
it should help strengthen FNEM as an institution. To reach eventual self-
replenishment, the Fund stipulates that successful projects repay not less
than 2 times the Fund's cost incurred in exploration through an 8% p.a.
royalty payment on the gross value of total mine production. In addition,
an interest charge of 10% p.a. will be made on the outstanding balance of the
actual FNEM cost incurred in exploration of the deposit. The interest charge
is to become effective at the completion of a successful feasibility study
but will be deferred for payment until production from the new deposit com-
mences, which is assumed to be 2 years. The formula and its effect on self-
replenishment are discussed in Chapter V.
4.18      In August 1977, FNEM employed the US consulting firm, Resource
Exploration International (REX) in association with a local consulting firm,
Consultoria Metalurgica Minera (CONSULTIN) for a period of one year to provide
technical assistance in executing Stage A investigations and in supervising
and evaluating Stage B. Two permanent consultants and seven temporary con-
sultants from REX have given needed support to the Fund during the one-year
contracting period. During the first 22 months since beginning operations
in May 1977, FNEM has reviewed 82 applications and undertaken 57 Stage A
projects. Forty-five of the 57 Stage A projects are vein-type deposits and
the remaining 12 are alluvial-type deposits. The Fund has as yet no know-how
for undertaking Stage A investigations of alluvial deposits. Field work of
Stage A exploration for 6 alluvial prospects was carried out with assistance
from CPD (Consolidated Purchasing and Designing of San Francisco), a US con-
sulting firm.
4.19      In September 1978, 18 of the 53 projects for which Stage A investi-
gations have been undertaken were classified as promising and recommended
for Stage B exploration. The Fund entered into negotiations for Stage B
contracts with consultants and with mining enterprises for 8 of the projects.
These are:
(a) Six alluvial projects including the drilling and
chemical assaying to be carried out under the super-
vision of CPD, Oscar Soria--a local contractor--
and David Griffiths Laboratorios from La Paz,
at a total estimated cost of US$75,000;



- 23 -
(b)  A vein prospect for which work was carried out by
the mine owner with the assistance of Robert Plenge,
a Peruvian consultant, between January and October,
1978; and
(c)  A vei. prospect for which most of the exploration
work financed by the Fund is being undertaken by
the mine operator with the assistance of Fernando
Blanco, a local consultant.
4.20      By May 1979, the Fund had deleted 7 of the 18 projects from its
exploration program, reducing the number of potential exploration projects
to 11. Deletion was made because of a combination of insufficient geological
potential, low mineral prices (for antimony) and lack of owner interest. In
the meantime, the Fund surveyed 3 additional vein-type deposits which are
considered to be promising prospects. The characteristics of the 14 prospects
considered promising in May 1979 are given in the table on the following
page, and summarized in greater detail in Annex 4. Although these promising
prospects include a relatively wide range of minerals, it is expected that
most of the exploration financed by the Fund will be in tin, since there is
more potential for tin in Bolivia.
4.21      Present operational procedures stipulate that the FNEM and the mine
owner benefiting from a contingent FNEM loan enter into contractual relation-
ships at 2 stages of the exploration process:
(a)  Prior to Stage A:  A contract is signed, defining the
work of Stage A and providing a ceiling of US$5,000
equivalent on the Stage A c:osts. If exploration of the
mine site results in increased mineral production, the
Stage A costs will be incltuded in the repayment obligation
of the miner (para. 4.17); and
(b)  Prior to Stage B:  A contract is signed defining the
scope of work of Stages B, C and D, the estimated
costs and the repayment obligation of the mine owner
in case of successful exploration.
4.22      The first 2 credit agreements with mining enterprises signed by
FNEM for Stage B projects (Totoral and Buena Esperanza) were reviewed by the
IDA mission to Bolivia in January 1979. The agreements were signed prior to
establishment of contractual procedures described in para. 4.21 (b) and as
such cover work to be undertaken and cost estimates for Stage B only. The
agreements do, however, include statements binding the mining enterprises to
agree to FNEM recommendations for advancing into more intensive exploration
and incurring additional exploration costs above those budgeted if considered
by FNEM to be necessary. The agreements also include a penalty provision,
requiring a mining enterprise which at any time opts to terminate agreement
with FNEM, despite FNEM's recommendation for more intensive exploration, to
repay the cost of the exploration incurred by the Fund theretofore. The
2 credit agreements differ with respesct to the specific repayment terms



BOLIVIA - NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
PROSPECTS SUCCESSFULLY STUDIED THROUGH STAGE A
STAGE A        POTENTIAL       POTENTIAL         POTENTIAL        EXPECTED        COST PLANNED                TIMETABLE /b                 POTENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT/
APPLICATION       FIELDWORK           ORE          RESERVES        CONCENTRAT7        PROCESS          ADDITIONAL                 ADDITIONAL                  EXPANSION CONCENTRATING
PROSPECT              LOCATION             DATE           COMPLETED        RESERVES          GRADE          PRODUCTION        RECOVE/YL        EXPLORATION                EXPLORATION                      PLANT CAPACITY
('000 Tons)         (M)              (TNY)            (7)          (US$ Thousands)                                            From              To
(TPD)           (TPD)
200             250
A   VEIN PROSPECTS
Totoral                  Oruro                 8/77             8/77             300          1.2 Sn               450              50                694            3rd Qtr '79 - Ist Qtr '81             200              250
Suona Espora-zo          Cochabanba           9/77             11/77             190         1.0 Sn                 60              50                109                   2/79 - 11/79                    20               40
Cero Grande              Cochabamba          11/77              2/78             964         1.5 Sn                700              50              2,689           3rd Qtr '79 - mid-'82                  300              300
Sayaeuira               La Paz               10/77              3/78           1,000         1.4 Sn                420              50                900                mid-'79 - mid-'83                 120              200
Fabulos.                 La Paz               6/77              9/77             280          0.8 Sn               210              60                855                mid-'79 - mid-'82                 100              150
Kala Uye                 La Pa.                3/78             5/78           5,900         0.44 Sn               790              60              1,365                mid-'79 - 3rd Qtr '83              -             1,000
Vilipaliga               La Pa.                1/78             4/78          11,300         Coal              100,000              60              3,511                mid-'80   1988                                      -
Acorn Marco              La Pa.                5/78             8/78           1,000         0.5 W03              -                 70                271                mid-'80 -  id-'81                  -                -
Enso...                  La Pa.              10/78             11/78           1,000         1.0 W03              -                  -                580                mid-'79 - Ist Qtr '80
Ani.nas                  Potosi                7/77             7/78           3,000         1.1 Pb/2.2 Zn/       -                 75                 58           2nd Qtr '79 - end '79
0.01 Ag
B ALLUVIAL PROSPECTS
Recuperacion             Or-r                  6/77             5/78          30,000          - Sn                -                  -                 26                4/79 - 3rd Qtr '79                          10,000 - 16,000
Arque                    Cohabamba            6/77             5/78         120,000            Sn                -                                   450                4/79 - lat Qtr '80                 -        10,000 - 16,000
S. America-Avaroa       La Pa.                1/78              5/78          60,000         - Au                 -                                     9                4/79 - 3rd Qtr '79                 -        10,000 - 15,000
La Sorpresa II          La Pat                8/78              5/78         100,000         - A.                 -                                    14                4/79 - 3rd Qtr '79                 -        10,000 - 16,000
/a  Information for alluvial pruapeot panding completion of preliminary sub-surface sanpling. 
Lb  On alluvial deposits, information available only for Stage B; additional exploration will be defined upon completion of Stage B.
/S Stage B completed in October 1978.
Ind',strial Projects Department
June 1979



- 25 -
and conditions in the event of successful exploration.  One agreement stipu-
lates that Stage B exploration costs would be added to costs of subsequent
stages of exploration for purposes of repayment under terms to be established
at the time a contract is signed for Stages C and D; the other requires repay-
ment of 2.4 times the cost of exploration incurred by FNEM, discounted by 8%
p.a. over the disbursement and repayment period. The latter repayment scheme
has been abandoned by FNEM as providing insufficient repayment to the Fund
under its established objectives (para. 5.12) and being too difficult for most
mining enterprises to understand. Four additional credit agreements have
since been signed under varying terms and conditions for Stage B work on
one vein deposit (Animas) and 3 alluvial deposits (Recuperacion; S. America-
Averoa; and Sorpresa II).
4.23      IDA has discussed with FNEM the need to establish a standard set
of general conditions applicable to all exploration credits in order to
facilitate FNEM's work and simplify negotiations with the mining enterprises.
These general conditions would provide for: (i) a complete clescription of
work to be undertaken under Stages B, C and D and estimated costs with a
25% contingency allowance, for possible changes in the scope of exploration
projects (para. 5.11); (ii) conditions binding the mining eniterprise to
advance into more intensive exploration (para. 4.22); (iii) repayment terms,
agreed with IDA, within the project cost range allowed by thie contingency
(para. 5.12); and (iv) penalty provisions (para. 4.22). IDA further considers
that the penalty provision should be strengthened by requiring payment of not
less than 2 times FNEM exploration expenditures to be paid immediately in
order to discourage mining enterprises in anticipation of successful explora-
tion from terminating agreements with FNEM to avoid repayment. Establishment
of the general conditions acceptable to the Association will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit to be applied to all contracts signed
by FNEM thereafter. The basic concepts of the general conditions have been
agreed with FNEM.
4.24      Experience with the 82 applications for exploration financing
received during the past 22 months for medium-size and small-scale mining
companies indicates a good demand for FNEM financing.  The attractiveness
of FNEM exploration credits relate to their contingent nature and tax con-
cessions granted by the Government to FNEM creditors.  Repayment of the
exploration credit is contingent on the identification and delineation of an
economic ore deposit, and payments are only due when the ore deposit is
actually being mined. In addition to the major risk-bearing of the Fund, the
Government granted in July 1978, to all mining companies repaying (then and
in future) FNEM credits, tax exemptions allowing 60% of the royalty payments
to FNEM to be deductible from the Government "regalia" (paras. 2.07, 2.08 and
5.13). Assuming an 8% p.a. royalty payment on mine output value, the royalty
is then decreased by 4.8% to an effective rate of 3.2% of that value.
F.   Financial Situation
4.25      By the decree establishing the Fund (No. 14549), FNEM received a
capital subscription from the Government of US$12 million equivalent, to be
disbursed in yearly contributions beginning in 1978 of at least US$1.2 million
equivalent. In addition, FNEM has received (i) a grant in 1977 of US$84,000
from the MMM, which had been earmarked for completion of the feasibility study



- 26 -
of FNEM; (ii) a loan in 1977 from the Central Bank of US$1.2 million at 5% p.a.
interest, a 15-year grace period and repayment over the 5 subsequent years;
and (iii) a loan in 1979 from the Central Bank of US$0.25 million at 5% p.a.
interest, a 6-year grace period and repayment over the 2 subsequent years.
Due to severe budgetary difficulties, the Government reduced its 1978 bud-
getary allocation to FNEM to US$120,000 equivalent, compared to the planned
minimum allocation of US$1.2 million. This reduction has not imposed a
major constraint on the Fund, however, since FNEM could make use of the
undisbursed balance of its Central Bank loan, which at the beginning of
1978 was US$856,000.
4.26      Since FNEM started operations only slowly, the capitalization and
loan-financing granted by the Government have provided sufficient funds for
1977 and 1978 operations as indicated by the following financing indicators:
FNEM--1977-78 Financial Indicators
(US$ 000)
1977              1978
(Actual)         (Estimated)
Exploration Expenditures /a                   95                298
Other Expenditures                           304                392
Paid-in Capital & Grants                      84                204
Net Fixed Assets                             139                127
Current Assets                                43                 71
Current Liabilities                           55                 18
/a   Includes Stages A-D exploration.
4.27      However, similar severe reductions in Government funding in 1979
would constrain FNEM from undertaking its planned operations (para. 5.04)
and threaten on-going operations. The US$150,000 received from the Govern-
ment through May 31, 1979, is sufficient to provide for about 5 months' salary
and other administrative expenses (para. 6.10).
4.28      The Fund's accounts are kept by qualified bookkeeping staff who
prepare operating expenditure statements and annual operating budgets.
However, the Fund has not yet set up a system for the preparation of consistent
financial statements or one to monitor the expenditures and credit status for
each of the financed exploration projects. Since coherent accounts and
monitoring of the cost/benefits of individual projects are essential for FNEM
operations, employment by FNEM of a qualified accounting firm on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, to assist FNEM in setting up complete financial
statements and a cost monitoring system has been agreed. The total cost of
such assistance has been estimated at US$25,000 and is proposed to be covered
by the IDA credit. Since the setting up of complete accounts should be
undertaken within the next 1-2 months, about US$25,000 may have to be financed
retroactively. The terms of reference and a list of auditing firms proposed
by FNEM have been reviewed and approved by IDA.



- 27 -
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Scope
5.01      The basic objective of the Project is to ensure that FNEM will
develop into a capable mineral exploration financing institution, which will
operate autonomously under appropriate operating procedures and thus help
Bolivia in reversing the trend of declining mineral reserves for exploita-
tion in a potentially mineral-rich country. The Project scope includes the
Fund's entire 4-year Operations Program during the 1979-82 period, estimated
to cost about US$16 million equivalent. This Program is expected to include
about 160 Stage A investigations (General Surveys); 25 Stage B (Preliminary
Sampling and Studies); 8 Stage C (Detailed Reserve Evaluations); and 5 Stage
D (Feasibility Studies) projects as described in more detail in para 4.15.
To carry out these operations, FNEM will employ consultants and contractors
to undertake Stages B-D projects and strengthen its own in-house expertise
by implementing a training program and obtain technical assistance from
qualified foreign consultants.
B.   Project Description
5.02      Due to the particular nature of the Project, the 4-year Operations
Program and thus the Project cannot be defined precisely or described in
technical detail. What is therefore described below are the policies and
procedures the Fund will follow in its operations and the number and type of
projects the Fund expects to undertak.e.
1.   1979-82 Operations Program
5.03      FNEM decided to focus its 1979-82 Program on exploration of known,
although unproven, mineral deposits as compared to earlier-stage, regional
prospection for new mineral deposits. Prospecting activities will be limited
to promoting designated areas for investment and to advising in negotiation of
concession agreements.
5.04      The Operations Program for exploration work of 1979-82 assumes:
(a) Continuation of Stages B-D exploration work for the 14
prospects which have successfully completed Stage A in-
vestigations in 1978 and remain potentially successful
prospects. The projected implementation schedule of these
projects is given on the following page and their character-
istics were summarized on page 24, and in Annex 4;
(b) Review of applications for mine financing, leading to the
execution of 40 new Stage A investigations per year; and
(c) Financing and supervision of a total of 25 Stage B projects,
8 Stage C projects, and 5 Stage D projects, i.e., a total
of Stages B-D projects, of which 11 Stage B projects
are yet unidentified.



- 28 -
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PROJECTS
1979           1980           1981           1982           1983
I2I3! 4    23 3               1234 1 2 3 4 1 2I3 4
pro ject 
Buena Esperanza   B      -    -        4        - i
Cerro Grande     C                  _
D
C
Toioral
ID
Sayaquira        D                         I.            _::l 
_.                                                    -      .,    | ,,, __    
B
Fabulosa         C                                    a
ID
Kala Uyo
=.__    ~~B    .       ._.                   __   i_               ,  
Vilipaliga       C
Aninras          B
Acero Marca       C
Bt--4- -   r-            -                 -              -           -  -
B
Ensueeic
Arque             C
Recuperacon
S. America       B                                                          W
Sotrpiresa I I   B e  e                                                           B
Industrial Projects Department
june 1979                                                                   World Bank -20097



- 29 -
The Program assumes that about two thirds of future applications will relate
to vein deposits and one third to alluvial deposits. Considering the distri-
bution of reserves in Bolivia and the Fund's 1977-78 experience, this assump-
tion is reasonable.
5.05      The Operations Program outlined above assumes a success ratio of
about 1:30 which is considered reasonable for Bolivia (para. 7.02). Of the
197 projects undertaken between 1977-82, 6 deposits are estimated to be
economically exploitable and start production during 1982-87. The projected
initial success rate appears justified since (i) 14 of the prospects have
already successfully completed Stage A, of which six deposits are considered
particularly promising; and (ii) most, if not all, of the projects during the
period will consist of expansions of existing mines, where the required time
for testing and feasibility work can be kept to a minimum since ore character-
istics and mining conditions are relatively well known.
5.06      In order to help ensure that the Fund develops an exploration
portfolio using consistent operating criteria and developing adequate in-house
expertise, FNEM will transmit to the Association and IDA will review and
approve the work programs and credit agreements for the Stages B-D exploration
projects to be financed by IDA (para. 5.04) during the 1979-82 period. To
assist in speeding up this process, IDA supervision missions may have to visit
Bolivia frequently during the disbursement period.
2.   Operating Procedures
5.07      Project Size and Characteristics.  Considering the limited amounts
of available FNEM funds and limited absorptive capacity of the institution,
the size of the ore deposits chosen will influence the number of exploration
projects undertaken by the Fund and the associated probability of finding
economically viable prospects. Consequently, the Fund has agreed to concen-
trate its activities--at least during the 1979-82 period--on prospects with
potential gross output equivalent to typical Bolivian tin mines in the range
of 50-1,000 tons per day (TPD). Output greatly exceeding 1,000 TPD would
require exploration expenditures in the US$3-10 million range, thus absorbing
about 20% to 60% of the Fund's 1979-82 operating budget. As to prospects with
potential gross output of less than 50 TPD, the high specific exploration
expenditures may not be justified in view of the relatively small expected
production level and thus would absorb FNEM funds with little prospect of
prompt repayment after production start up.
5.08      COMIBOL, the wholly-owned mining company with 12 major mining
centers, owns mining concession rights to a large part of the country for
which mining concessions have been granted. Since COMIBOL was formed in 1952
through the nationalization of three major privately-owned mining companies,
its concession areas include some of Bolivia's great unexplored mineral
wealth. Bolivian authorities and the Association have discussed during the
past year whether COMIBOL should benefit from FNEM credits. Theoretically,



- 30 -
the company should generate sufficient funds internally to cover its own
exploration expenditures. In practice, COMIBOL has shown low profitability
for some time and postponed all but the most promising exploration invest-
ments. However, future exclusion of COMIBOL from FNEM financing may well
lead to neglect of some of Bolivia's most promising ore deposits and, thus,
to the development of only second-best or higher-cost deposits in Bolivia.
Consequently, FNEM has agreed to extend exploration credits to COMIBOL under
the same conditions that apply to other mine owners, namely that (i) FNEM
criteria for project evaluation are strictly applied also to COMIBOL explora-
tion projects, and (ii) FNEM's exposure be limited to US$2.0 million for
projects presented or sponsored by the same owner, which have been or will be
undertaken by the Fund, during the execution of the Project; this is to avoid
over-exposure financing by the Fund of several large exploration projects
within a single company.
5.09      Standards and Criteria for Project Evaluation.  FNEM acknowledges
the importance of using a consistent set of established financial and tech-
nical standards and criteria in selecting exploration projects for financing
and in deciding on project advancement into more advanced stages of explora-
tion. Technical and financial standards will be used as checkpoints for
assessing the characteristics of properties ana applicant mining companies
and facilitating comparisons of potential projects; technical and financial
criteria will be used in decision-making on project selection and exploration
advancement. The standards and criteria have been formulated to ensure con-
sistency while avoiding bureaucratic, inflexible screening. IDA and FNEM
have reached an understanding on the following standards and criteria to be
included in FNEM's internal regulations (para. 4.16).
(a) Financial Standards: Financial ratios will be used to
(i) analyze the financial condition of mining enterprises
that have applied to FNEM for financing of exploration
prospects; and (ii) recommend improvements in financial
conditions of enterprises whose applications are accepted
for financing exploration but are not yet meeting such
standards. These standards, subject to review by the
accounting/auditing firm that assists FNEM in establish-
ing credit and cost monitoring systems (para. 4.28) for
their applicability to local mining enterprises, com-
prise a current ratio of at least 1.0, and a debt ratio
(long-term debt:capital) of at most 70:30;
(b) Financial Criteria: The selection of exploration projects
for FNEM financing will be based on (i) the project's
capability to repay FNEM' s credit, based on the estimated
value and life of the exploitable ore reserves (para. 5.12);
and (ii) an estimated rate of return of at least 12% on a
discounted basis for projects, based on expected successful
exploration and exploitation;
(c) Technical Standards: FNEM has agreed to the following
indexes to be used in assessing the technical merit of
mineral prospects during the Stage A general survey, and
in guiding decisions to move ahead into more advanced
Stages B, C and D of exploration.



- 31 -
FNEM--Technical Standards
Technical Indexes /a
1          2           3       4
Expected Ore Reserves ('000 tons)         Up to 0.05   0.05-0.2   0.2-1.0   1.0
Expected Value of Ore Reserves
(US$ per Gross Ton)                      Up to 30       30-60     60-150    150
Expected Dilution (%)                     Above 70       50-70       30-50    0-30
Mining Conditions                         Unfavorable   Normal   Favorable   -
Existing Infrastructure                   Unfavorable   Normal   Favorable   -
/a   Each technical standard carries a numerical index of from 1 to 4 depend-
ing upon the potential of the prospect, with 4 ranking highest in poten-
tial. A prospect will be assessed in terms of each technical standard.
The applicable numerical index of each technical standard will be added
and the numerical total used to evaluate the prospect and compare it to
others.
Prospects for which technical indexes add to less than 8
will be considered unpromising and rejected. Prospects with
indexes adding to 8-10 will be investigated further, including
a review of the geological data basis, before they are con-
sidered promising and worthy of further exploration. Prospects
totalling 11 or more will be considered promising and will be
analyzed further, both technically and economically, to determine
and justify the scope of additional exploration work; and
(d) Technical Criteria: FNEM has agreed on the following technical
criteria for project selection and decisions on exploration
stage advancement: (i) the size and geological characteristics
of mineralization, with potential for gross output equivalent to
typical Bolivian tin mines should be in the range of 50-1,000
TPD, as discussed in para. 5.07; (ii) ore reserves will be estab-
lished by the exploration project as 70%J of possible reserves,
and 307 to 6l,% of nrosnective reserves; and (iii) the nreliTninary
estiriate and determination of ore reserves to be established
throu_h exnloration nro4ects -Till be based on procedures agreed
with BMAIN and EISA to establish sufficient positive and probablel/
reserves to support mining activities for at least 2 years. The
ore reserve percentages shown above in item (ii) will be revised
from tine to time, by agreement between IDA and the Fund in light of
the experience gained by the Fund in carrying out the projects.
5.10      Several mine operators applying for exploration financing have
asqkeO t"e "und also to assist in tihe financing of subsequent exploitation
1/   Positive reserves acceptable to BISA and BAMIN are ore reserves estab-
lished from at least 3 sampling areas, such as tunnels or raises sit-
uated at boundaries of the reserves, of which at least 2 areas should
not be spaced beyond 50 meters in tin vein-type deposits; probable
reserves are established from at least one area over a projection of
50 meters, in tin vein deposits.



- 32 -
investments and the construction of pilot-testing plants and the rehabili-
tation of processing plants. If FNEM were also to provide financing for
mine and plant development to any significant extent, available funds for
exploration work would be severely limited without increasing the basis
for FNEM replenishment. Further, existing metallurgical testing facilities
at the Instituto de Investigaciones de Minero Metallurgicas (IIMM) in Oruro,
and qualified testing facilities abroad are well equipped and experienced
to undertake pilot testing at probably less cost, and other sources of
financing for pilot plants and related improvements are available in Bolivia.
Consequently, FNEM has agreed not to finance mine development and to limit
financing of pilot plant construction to exceptional cases that can be tech-
nically and economically justified to the Association on the basis of criteria
satisfactory to IDA. FNEM has also agreed to limit financing plant rehabili-
tation to 15% of the total cost of the related exploration project, up to a
maximum of US$100,000, and then only if no other financing is available and
the rehabilitation component can be justified technically and economically
to IDA.
3.   Financial Credit Conditions
5.11      FNEM's exploration credits will cover:
(a) The full cost of FNEM staff and equipment used to execute Stage A
investigations and supervise or help carry out Stages B-D work;
(b) The consultants or contractor services employed and financed by the
Fund to undertake Stages A-D work; and
(c) The exploration work undertaken by the mine owners in accordance
with the Stages B-D work program.
The total credit amount is determined at the time of the signature of the
Stage B contract and is based on the budgeted work program, including in-
creases of up to 25% of the originally budgeted exploration costs which could
derive from future changes executed at FNEM's discretion in the nature and
scope of exploration projects (para. 4.23). If during Stages B-D additional
funds are needed in excess of the 25% mentioned above, an amendment to the
Fund's credit agreement would be required. The FNEM intends to finance 100%
of the exploration costs for small deposits (250 TPD of potential concentrate
production or less) and up to 50% of the exploration costs for large deposits
(250-500 TPD of potential production). The mine owners of the large deposits
are expected to finance the balance. The estimated project costs and FNEM
financing for the different size deposits are discussed in Chapter VII.
5.12      Repayment will be made through an 8% p.a. royalty payment on the
total mine output in case the explored deposit has been developed and reaches
the production stage. FNEM has agreed with IDA on a repayment formula requir-
ing repayment of not less than 2 times the exploration investment made by
FNEM, plus an interest charge of 10% p.a. on the outstanding balance of FNEM's
exploration investment. The interest charge would become effective upon
completion of a successful feasibility study, but would be deferred for
payment until production from the new deposit commences. It is considered



- 33 -
that the interest charge (i) provides incentive to a mining enterprise with a
successful project to commence commercial production as soon as possible; and
(ii) assists in maintaining repayment in real terms. Sixty percent of the
repayment made through an 8% p.a. royalty payment on the total mine output
would be tax deductible (para. 4.24).
5.13      It is judged that the 8% royalty payment is normally acceptable for a
mining enterprise only if it can be treated as an offset against the regalia,
and such offset is in fact offered by the Government with respect to repay-
ments by mining enterprises to FNEM (para. 4.24). Decree No. 15720 providing
FNEM borrowers with advantages in royalty payments, however, requires clarifi-
cation. According to the decree, 60% of royalty payments by borrowers to FNEM
can be credited against the mining regalia or tax on presumed income (paras.
2.07, 2.08). It is unclear whether the regalia offset will affect receipt by
FNEM of its full repayment, or receipt by the Government of its revenues.
Therefore the Government has agreed to clarify the issue by means of a joint
resolution of the Ministers of Finance and of Mining and Metallurgy, providing
thereby for an automatic mechanism which will ensure repayment in full to FNEM
as required by its terms and conditions, offsetting 60% of that repayment
against Government taxes. Clarification of the decree acceptable to IDA will
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.   Mine Development Financing,
5.14      A mineral discovery can only be considered economically successful
when it results in mine production. Thus, after the feasibility studies
(Stage D exploration) have been completed, and assuming they have established
the exploitation of a given ore deposit as financially, economically and
technically justified, financing and technical know-how must be found to
implement the mine development project and start production. It is estimated
that mine deposits of the size most likely to be explored by FNEM will require
US$0.5-5.5 million each to bring them to production. Availability of credits
for mine development in Bolivia (through BAMIN or BISA) or from foreign
sources will primarily depend on the quality of the ore deposits found and
the quality of the feasibility studiLes prepared under the supervision of
FNEM. If the Fund can establish itself as an institution of high caliber
which carefully screens projects and sponsors, financing for development of
its projects will not be a problem, as BISA and BAMIN (among other credit
institutions) have access to IDA and World Bank existing or possible future
funds (para. 2.15) and to other sources of financing for mining activities.
C.   Review of Operations Program
5.15      As indicated in the previous chapters, the Fund is still in the
early experimentation stage. The institutional framework, its appropriate-
ness and strength have to be proven.. Thus, it cannot be excluded--and even
is likely--that substantial changes will be called for in decision-making
authorities, Operations Programs and operating procedures after experience
has been gained with a sufficient number of Stages A-D projects.



- 34 -
5.16      As noted before, the 1979-82 Operations Program relies primarily
on exploration of known deposits for mine expansion. Although this is appro-
priate for the initial FNEM operating years, the availability of such deposits
will decline and the composition of FNEM's portfolio is apt to change towards
more "grass roots" exploration. This will not only increase the degree of
risk associated with FNEM exploration, but also require reconsideration
of the appropriate volume of Fund operations. Considering the uncertainties
which quite naturally surround this type of Project, the Fund has agreed to
furnish IDA, not later than March 15, 1982, with a report (i) reviewing the
experience gained by the Fund as a consequence of the carrying out of the
Project; and (ii) providing the scope, cost estimates and financial resources
required for the carrying out of an Operations Program for the Fund for the
years 1983-87. The Fund shall, after exchanging views with the Associa-
tion on the Operations Program, start, not later than September 30, 1982,
with the execution of such Program, including modifications of operating
policies and procedures if necessary.
D.   Project Implementation
1.   Project Execution and Management
5.17      The Fund plans to execute the 1979-82 Operations Program by:
(a) Undertaking Stage A investigations with FNEM staff, except on
alluvial deposits for which the staff has no training and
which will be undertaken by FNEM with the assistance of
consultants;
(b) Directly hiring consultants, contractors, or the services of
laboratories to undertake portions of the exploration work
and feasibility studies required in Stages B-D;
(c) Contracting the respective mining companies to undertake part
of the exploration, in particular drilling and tunnelling;
(d) Using US$4.3 million of French and German technical assistance,
including equipment and geologists; and
(e) Undertaking all supervision and coordination of contracts
and projects with FNEM staff.
FNEM aims to minimize foreign exchange expenditures and use whenever possible
local consultant and contractor personnel or mine owners. It intends to
strengthen its own capabilities through technical assistance to be provided
by the Government of Germany during the Project period in the form of a grant
(para. 6.12). Also, both the Government and FNEM feel that any further IDA-
financed expatriate assistance to strengthen the Fund (as earlier envisaged by
Association staff), other than the short-term services still to be provided
and discussed in para. 5.22, cannot be adequately justified and, in the Fund's
view, would unduly complicate--and could possibly be in conflict with--the
assistance the Fund is receiving from Germany.



- 35 -
5.18      Without the technical assistance to be supplied by Germany, the
proposed form of Project execution would raise major technical, costing and
organizational problems. The coordination of the possible 40-100 small
consultants' contracts and work undertaken by mine owners requires a strong
organization and solid technical/economic/financial evaluation skills within
FNEM to prepare consolidated reports for decision-making. The diffusion of
the exploration work program for a specific prospect (from the first drill-
ing and sampling to the feasibility study) in a multitude of small consultant
contracts and work undertaken by the mine owner raises the question of re-
sponsibility for the reliability of individual exploration data and overall
quality of results. Only close supervision by FNEM staff experienced in all
facets of exploration can ensure high caliber results. Further, exploration
work undertaken by the miner (drilling, tunnelling, etc.), which the Fund also
will finance, requires detailed technical supervision and costing of the work
performed. As FNEM's technical staff includes a team of only 13 geologists
with experience in medium-size vein deposits in Bolivia but little or no past
exposure to contracting for consulting services and the organization/coordina-
tion of mineral exploration/pre-investment programs, the proposed Project
execution arrangement can be considered appropriate for the FNEM 1979-82
Program only if the German technical assistance is used appropriately, parti-
cularly in the fields of mine project evaluation and development, mineral
economics and financial analysis.
5.19      While one of the objectives of the Fund is to assist in strengthening
the local mining consulting/service industry, the limited capability of local
mining consulting/service firms is Ea severe handicap to FNEM at the outset.
The 4 most prominent Bolivian firms have, at present, neither the experience
nor the qualified personnel to execute all advanced stages of exploration for
any one project. This will lead to smaller contracts for partial exploration
work. To ensure that such work is undertaken so as to be fully credible for
follow-on financing, FNEM has agreecl to employ consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are satis-
factory to the Association. In this respect, the first 10 draft consultant
contracts in the Project period wil]L be sent to the Association for prior
review and approval. Subsequently, draft consultant contracts exceeding
US$50,000 will be sent for IDA review and approval. All service contracts
exceeding US$50,000 will be furnished to IDA for review. Consultant and
service contracts under US$50,000 will be sent for IDA review and approval
only on an a posteriori basis.
5.20      Since the Project execution arrangement and German technical assist-
ance, which are expected strongly to influence the quality of the FNEM-sponsored
exploration work, will first have to prove themselves in practice, agreement
has been reached with FNEM that after the earlier of a date 18 months from the
effective date of the IDA credit or when the equivalent of US$3.5 million from
the credit has been committed IDA will decide whether to commit and disburse
the second tranche of the credit up to a total of US$7.5 million. Disbursement
beyond the initial US$3.5 million will depend on IDA assessment, following an
exchange of views with the Fund and the Government, of FNEM's performance in
carrying out the Project and on whether the purposes of the credit can be
accomplished by the Fund.



- 36 -
5.21      FNEM has prepared a training program, which consists of 4 man-weeks'
teaching in Bolivia and 3 man-months of overseas training. Seminars will
be organized locally on preparation and evaluation of mining projects. The
overseas training component provides for 3 FNEM staff members to attend
month-long seminars on mine management, mineral economics and mineral ex-
ploration and metallurgy. FNEM has agreed that by January 1, 1980, it will
secure training services in mineral economics and mineral project preparation
and evaluacion and furnish IDA with a program, including a timetable, that is
satisfactory to IDA for the remainder of the training.
5.22      To strengthen staff further and provide on-the-job training, FNEM
has agreed to contract up to a total of 100 man-months in services from
largely expatriate consultants and experts for specific short-term assignments
which will be defined in exchange of views with IDA every 6 months.
3.   Equipment Requirements
5.23      FNEM's equipment requirements consist of items needed by its staff
for Stage A surveys and a certain amount of exploration consumables and
equipment necessary for Stages B, C and D of exploration. Such items as
vehicles, light drills and camping equipment are required for FNEM to visit
and survey ore deposits and will require replacement at frequent intervals.
Exploration consumables for Stages B, C and D would be purchased by FNEM and
provided at cost to the projects. FNEM will purchase these consumables from
established suppliers to gain flexibility in project execution by avoiding
possible delays otherwise to be expected. FNEM will also purchase a limited
amount of heavy-duty exploration equipment pertinent to the execution of more
than one mining project and sufficient in quantity to avoid bottlenecks that
could originate from lack of equipment in Bolivia. A list of the equipment
estimated by FNEM to be required to carry out its 1979-82 Operations Program
is given in Annex 5.
4.   Implementation Schedule
5.24      A tentative Project implementation schedule is shown on the follow-
ing page. Accordingly, technical assistance required for financial accounting
outlined in para. 4.28 will be contracted by June 1979; technical assistance
for exploration work and training of FNEM staff will be started no later
than the first quarter of 1980, and possibly earlier. Contracting for main
contractors/consultants for exploration work will be started during the rest
of 1979. During the first two years, the schedule for exploration work is
tight but should be achieved provided that the contracts with mine owners are
signed expeditiously and that needed consultants and contractors are chosen
and hired without delay.



- 37 -
BOLIVIA - NATIONAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
FNEM - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979                    1980                    1981                     1982
1 121314   1  2  34 1-                              2  3  4   1  21 34
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                 t
-  Financial                                          11111 1111  liii IlIlhhEhl hl  *hIh   IhEhwhEh  11111  lhi linfhin.
- Technical                                                                    logo l EEE  II hm IhhhII ilh l hI  igill   iiii
TRAINING
-  In Bolivia                                              -
- Abroad                                                   -       _-t_ --*___t
EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                 4 j  __
EXPLORATION WORK                        40 stages p.a.
at 2 weeks each
Stage A                                                - I      +          t                  - ,         , 
8B--- -- 8            5B-i6-B-.-  -4--688
Stage B                          __.-5'-  -t =6 =                                 __
5C-   _   *    -3C             - '                             I_
Stage C                                -           14  t                                                              +
Stage D                                                       -    0          *      1- -2       -     s-          -  20  ___
* Mail Bid Documents
A  Bid Closing
V  Contract Signature                                                                               World Bank -20110
A Start of Work
1    Technical Assistance During Project Execution
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



- 38 -
VI. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A.   Capital Cost
6.01      As shown below, total financing required for the Project is esti-
mated at US$16.5 million equivalent, of which about 30% is in foreign exchange
(Annex 6):
Capital Cost Estimates
B$ Million              US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    %
Equipment (including
freight and spares)          -     24.6    24.6        -     1.23      1.23   11.1
General Survey Costs         14.0       -     14.0      0.70    -        0.70    6.3
Consulting & Service
Contracts /a              112.8    28.2   141.0       5.64   1.41      7.05   63.8
Technical Assistance
and Training                 -     15.6    15.6        -     0.78      0.78    7.1
Administrative Costs         25.8       -     25.8      1.29    -        1.29   11.7
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)  152.6    68.4   221.0         7.63   3.42    11.05  100.0
Physical Contingencies       11.2      2.8    14.0      0.56   0.14      0.70
Price Escalation             65.0    18.4    83.4       3.25   0.92      4.17
Installed Cost              228.8    89.6   318.4    11.44   4.48    15.92
Working Capital lb            ..       ..       ..       ..
Interest During
Disbursement                5.8     4.8    10.6       0.29   0.24      0.53
Total Financing Required  234.6    94.4   329.0    11.73   4.72    16.45
/a   Includes, as 20% of total, contractor-purchased equipment for exploration.
/b   Minimal working capital requirements mainly for cash administrative
expenditures.
6.02      Equipment costs estimates are based on expenditures for:
(a) Camping equipment, 4 pick-up trucks, 2 drills required by
FNEM for Stage A exploration and a minicomputer for inform-
ation storage. With the exception of cost estimates for
camping equipment which are based on FNEM (January-May
1978) purchases of similar equipment, cost estimates for
these items are based on delivered prices quoted in
September 1978;



- 39 -
(b) Exploration consumables for Stages B-D exploration. Cost
estimates for these consumables are based on delivered
prices quoted in December 1978; and
(c) Heavy-duty exploration equipment, such as heavy drills
and compressors, for Stages B-D exploration. Cost
estimates for this equipment are based on delivered
prices quoted in December 1978.
6.03       Cost estimates for FNEM general surveys (Stage A) and for consulting
and service contracts (Stages B, C and D) have been developed from estimates
made in the December 1976 feasibility study. General survey estimates have
been updated in 1978, based on FNEM's experience in 32 Stage A projects
carried out in that year. Consulting and service contract cost estimates were
revised by the IDA mission in May 1978 after review with (i) Fund management;
(ii) 2 well-established Bolivian, medium-size mining enterprises, EMUSA and
FABULOSA; and (iii) Resources Exploration International (REX), a US consult-
ing firm that has assisted FNEM. Estimates were reviewed for compatibility
with international costs for similar type work with an international mining
concern. Cost estimates were further updated in January 1979 and reviewed
again in May 1979 in light of implementation and project cost schedules
developed by FNEM for the 14 identified, potentially successful projects in
FNEM's 1979-82 Operations Program (para. 4.20). The consulting and service
contract estimates cover the exploration work expected to be carried out over
the next 4 years for the 14 Stage B projects already selected by the Fund and
additional projects to be selected under procedures and criteria detailed in
Chapter V.
6.04      Technical assistance costs include a total of 100 man-months in
services from consultants for short-term assignments, based on an average
rate of US$7,500 per man-month (or IJS$90,000 per year) plus annual transpor-
tation costs (para. 5.22). Technical assistance to establish a financial
reporting and monitoring system has been estimated at US$25,000 (para. 4.28).
Training costs are estimated at US$30,400, based on: (i) 1978 costs of
specialized international seminars, including per diem and travel expenses,
for 3 FNEM staff members attending one-month seminars abroad; and (ii) US
university estimates, including per diem and travel expenses, of 4 man-weeks'
teaching in Bolivia.
6.05      Administrative costs are based on actual expenses incurred by the
Fund for rent, utilities, transportation and insurance, non-project related
personal salaries, materials and supplies. These costs assume no additional
personnel increases in Fund administrative staff (para. 4.06), but a 2% p.a.
increase in real terms.
6.06      Physical contingencies on consulting and service contracts for
preliminary sampling, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies (Stages B, C
and D) are estimated at 10% of the base cost of each of the stages. No other
physical contingencies are included.. Price escalation for equipment, tech-
nical assistance and training and the foreign components of consultant and
service contracts is calculated on the basis of international price increases
in US$ of 7.5% for 1979 and 7% per year thereafter. Price escalation for the



- 40 -
local component of consultant and service contracts is estimated at a rate of
15% per annum. Local costs are expected to account for 80% of exploration
contract costs (Stages B-D). The increase in general survey costs and
administrative costs is also calculated at 15% p.a.
6.07       The working capital requirements are expected to be small and made
up primarily of cash on hand, estimated at 30 days of administrative costs.
Accounts payable consist of 15 days of contract costs, as well as receivables
of deferred payments by FNEM staff of unexpended travel advances for Stage A
activities.
6.08       Interest is calculated on the basis of (i) an IDA credit of US$7.5
million to the Government, which is to be on-lent to the Fund at 6.5% p.a.
interest for 20 years, including 5 years' grace. During the grace period,
interest payments will be limited to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the
subsidiary loan with the remainder (4%) being deferred and paid in equal
installments as the subsidiary loan is repaid. The subsidiary loan will be
denominated and repayable in US dollars with the Fund bearing the foreign
exchange risk (para. 6.13); (ii) a 1977 Central Bank loan of US$1.2 million,
at 5% p.a. interest, for 20 years, including 15 years' grace, which is
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1979; and (iii) a 1979 Central
Bank loan of US$0.25 million, at 5% p.a. interest for 8 years, including 6
years' grace, which is expected to be fully disbursed also by the end of 1979.
B.   Financing Plan
6.09      The proposed financing plan for the Project during 1979-82 is the
following:
Financing Plan
Equity                   US$ Million        X
Government Contributions /a            4.3           26
Bilateral Grants
BRGM (France) /b                     0.5            3
GTZ (Germany) /c                     3.8           23
Sub-Total                   8.6           52
Debt
Central Bank Loans                     0.4            2
IDA Credit                             7.5           46
Sub-Total                   7.9           48
Total Financing            16.5          100
/a   An additional US$0.5 million in Government contri-
butions to be used for the FNEM Prospection Program
during Project period.
/b   Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres.
/c   Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit.



- 41 -
6.10      As noted, in 1977, the Government committed by decree at least
US$1.2 million equivalent per year to FNEII over a 10-year period beginning
in 1978, when the Government's allocation totalled no more than US$120,000
due to serious temporary budgetary constraints. The financing plan is
structured on the basis that the Government will contribute to FNEM the
full US$4.8 million committed over the 4-year period (1979-82), o0 which
US$0.5 million would be used for FNEM prospection activities that are not
part of the Project. Also included in the total amount of Government funds
recognized in the financing plan is a small amount of undisbursed funds
(US$0.4 million) from the two Central Bank loans received by FNEM in 1977 and
1979, respectively.
6.11      Due to the importance of Government funding to the immediate,
on-going existence of the Fund and to the Fund's long-term operations, agree-
ment has been reached that the Government will contribute FNEM's equity
provided for under Decree No. 14549 in each of the fiscal years 1980-82, by
allocating 50% of the contribution for exploration projects each year and
depositing the allocation in equal quarterly installments in a Central Bank
account established in the Fund's name. The remaining half of the annual
contribution will be made available to FNEM for salaries and other admini-
strative expenses at FNEM's request. At the end of each fiscal year
(December 31), the Government will deposit any undisbursed funds due that year
in the Fund's Central Bank account or in any other banking account of the
Fund. For 1979, the Government has paid US$400,000 into the Fund's Central
Bank account for exploration investment and has paid an additional US$150,000
for operating expenses. The Government has agreed to deposit into the Fund's
Central Bank account by October 1, 1979, a total of US$678,000, the amount of
the Fund's 1979 Government budget request for exploration projects. No
withdrawals of IDA funds will be made unless IDA has received satisfactory
evidence that the Government has paid into the Fund's Central Bank account all
amounts required to be paid into the account, including the payment to be made
in respect of the quarter of the Government's fiscal year in which the applica-
tion for withdrawal has been received. The estimated disbursement schedule
for the IDA credit is shown in para. 6.16, together with required Government
budgetary allocations.
6.12      Bureau of Recherches Geologiques et Minieres (BRGM), a public
institution of the Republic of France, has signed a protocol agreement in
September 1978 providing a grant of UJS$500,000 equivalent to FNEM in 1979 for
technical assistance and equipment to undertake prefeasibility work (Stage B)
on at least 3 or 4 exploration projects. Two projects have been identified
and work is in progress. The German Government has agreed in principle with
the Government of Bolivia in December 1978 to provide US$3.8 million equivalent
for project assistance to FNEM as defined by Gesellschaft fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), a German goverament agency for technical cooperation.
The GTZ project includes technical assistance, services and equipment for at
least one large deposit. One deposit (Cerro Grande) has been identified thus
far for German financing.  Conclusions of the German bilateral assistance
agreement required to complete the financing plan will be a condition of IDA
credit effectiveness.



- 42 -
6.13      The US$7.5 million IDA credit will be on standard terms and on-lent
on terms described in para. 6.08. The financial obligation arising from on-
lending of the IDA credit to FNEM will give incentive to the Fund to maintain
financial discipline and thus broaden the experience of the staff and strengthen
the Fund as an institution. Since exploration is risk-capital financing--even
if the risk can be reduced by spreading it over a large, diversified portfolio
of an exploration fund--and the Project and the Projection execution arrange-
ment are to a degree experimental, agreement has been reached, as noted, with
the Government and the Fund that the credit will be disbursed in two tranches
of US$3.5 and US$4.0 million, respectively, with disbursements of the second
tranche depending on certain conditions being met satisfactorily as described
in para. 5.20.
C.   Procurement, Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
6.14      Most, if not all, of the equipment to be financed by IDA will be
purchased through international shopping (with quotations from at least four
suppliers from three different member countries of the Association, including
Switzerland). This is due to the relatively small equipment items involved
and the need for the FNEM to be able to procure these items expeditiously for
on-going general survey exploration. Any equipment to be financed by IDA that
may be above US$250,000 each will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) according to IDA guidelines. In addition, rails,
air and water pipes (even if costing less that US$250,000) will be procured
under ICB, since these items are widely manufactured.
6.15      The hiring of technical assistance, training and contractor/
consultant services will also follow IDA guidelines. Qualifications and
contract conditions for consultants, foreign experts, contractors and train-
ing assistance financed by the Association will be subject to IDA approval.
As outlined in para. 5.19, all draft consultant and service contracts above
US$50,000 will be furnished to IDA for approval. After IDA has approved the
first 10 draft consultant contracts, IDA will review consultant contracts under
US$50,000 on an a posteriori basis. All service contracts under US$50,000
will be reviewed a posteriori by IDA.
6.16      Disbursement for the proposed IDA credit of US$7.5 million would
be as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of equipment or 100% of
the ex-factory cost of goods procured locally, estimated
to total US$1.4 million;
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance
and training estimated to total US$1.0 million; and
(c) 60% of the total cost of contractors/consultants' services,
excluding bilateral assistance for Stages B-D exploration,
estimated to total US$8.5 million.
Disbursement would be against normal documentation duly certified by FNEM.
The estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA credit and the Government fund
allocations are shown in the following table.



- 43 -
Estimated Disbursement Schedules for IDA Credit and Government Allocations
(Semi-annual Disbursements, US$ million)
Calendar                1979             1980              1981             1982
Quarters          I-II   III-IV   I-IT   III-IV   I-II   III-IV   I-II   III-IV
IDA Credit         -       0.4      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.9      1.9       1.9
Government
Allocation      0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6
Retroactive financing is recommended for technical assistance of up to
US$25,000 after March 31, 1979 (para. 4.28).
6.17      As noted in para. 6.01, the total foreign exchange cost of the
Project is estimated at US$4.7 million. It is expected that about 50% of
the total bilateral assistance of US$4.3 million will be tied to expenditures
in foreign exchange. FNEM intends to maximize local expenditures for explora-
tion contractors and services (para. 5.19), expecting that about 20% of
exploration contracts for consultants and contractor services will be in
foreign exchange. In this case, the maximum amount of local cost financing
required by the Association would be US$5.2 million, or about 70% of the IDA
credit.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Methodology Used in Financial Projections and Its Limitations
7.01       Since FNEM capital and loans are denominated in foreign currencies
and FNEM exploration credits expressed in US$ terms, the financial projections
have been expressed in US dollars. International inflation rates of 7.5%
in 1979 and 7% p.a. through 1982 have been used for all foreign exchange ex-
penditures, and inflation rates of 15% p.a. from 1979-82 for local expendi-
tures. These rates were used to reflect the financial situation in nominal
terms during the Project disbursement period, in order to obtain the most
realistic picture possible of the cash requirements and liquidity position of
the Fund during its early years. Thereafter, the projections are in real
terms. In any case, the uncertainties of the required assumptions on exchange
rates, inflation and the nature and number of successful exploration projects
are likely to distort this picture.
7.02       The financial projections are based on the 1979-82 Operations
Program described in para. 5.04 and assume that 40 Stage A projects, 6
Stage B projects, 2 Stage C projects and 1-2 Stage D projects are undertaken
each year. This program size which was elaborated in the FNEM feasibility
study reflects the assumption that 1 exploration project out of 30 projects
undertaken is likely to result in incremental mine production. The success
ratio of 1:30 was derived using a risk model based on the exploration experi-
ence of 9 private and 4 public mining enterprises involving some 20,000
explorations. The US Defense Minerals Exploration Agency, the US Geological



- 44 -
Survey and COMINCO (Canadian private company) provided the major data for
analyzing the risks associated with Stages A and B exploration. COMIBOL
provided data with respect to Stages C and D exploration and was the major
source for the risk analysis related to these stages. The projected success
ratio was reviewed by the mission, compared with that of other exploration
funds and considered appropriate in light of the higlh number of promising
target areas for exploration in Bolivia.
7.03      Financial projections relying on forecasts of successful exploration
and mine development reflect the full scale of major risks and uncertainties
associated with exploration and mine investment and thus can only be notional
projections. Whereas the Fund has identified 14 potential deposits for the
1979-82 Operations Program whose prospects can be assessed in light of avail-
able information, the size, characteristics, timing and success of the 300-400
deposits which the Fund is likely to investigate over the next decade are
unknown. Any medium- or long-term projections of FNEM are, therefore, highly
speculative and must be regarded as possible outcomes among many different
alternatives. The financial and economic analyses presented in this and the
following chapter provide an illustration of two possible exploration scenar-
ios, an "optimistic" and a "pessimistic" case. However, it must be stressed
that these scenarios do not cover a high probability range within which FNEM
financial results are likely to fall, but are mere illustrations to which no
meaningful probability can be attached.
B.   Revenues--Replenishment through Royalty Payments
7.04      The projections assume a royalty payment of 8% of the gross value
of total mine production from each exploration investment which generates
commercial production of ore. Repayment of 2 times the cost of explora-
tion (Stages A-D) to FNEM is assumed, plus an interest charge of 10% on the
outstanding balance of the FNEM cost of exploration. The interest charge
is effective upon completion of the feasibility study indicating proven
reserves that are commercially exploitable, but payment of the interest is
deferred until production from the new deposit commences, which is assumed
to be 2 years.
7.05      Since the majority of the exploration work is expected to be in tin,
the projected royalty payments for probable discoveries are based on the
London Metal Exchange (LME) price of standard-grade tin. After an initial
projected decrease in tin prices relating to possible US stockpile releases,
tin prices are expected to be relatively stable in real terms, due in part
to the operation of the buffer stock system by the International Tin Council
of which Bolivia is a member. Tin prices are projected in 1978 terms to be
US$5.23/lb in 1980 and to increase slowly to US$5.45/lb by 1990, assuming an
international inflation rate for commodities (IBRD-Commodity Price Forecasts,
April 1979 Update) of 8.6% in 1979 and 6.0% thereafter. The projections
assume these real changes in tin prices; they also assume inflationary changes
through 1982. Royalties are not expected to begin until 1982. After 1982,
the following tin prices in 1982 constant US$ have been used.



- 45 -
Projected Tin Prices
(US$/lb)
Current                 1982 Constant
1982                 6.72                        6.72
1983                 7.12                        6.72
1984                 7.55                       6.72
1985                 8.22                        6.91
1990                10.71                        7.04
Source:  IBRD Report No. 814/78, June 1978, updated following
Annual Review, April 26, 1979.
C.   Exploration Costs
7.06      The costs of exploration have been estimated for the 14 identified
projects which the Fund considers to be promising (para. 4.20). The cost
estimates made by FNEM have been reviewed and are considered realistic in
light of cost-estimate revisions made by the Association in January 1979 and
again in May 1979 (para. 6.03). On the basis of these estimated costs, an
average cost for exploration of four types of mines differentiated by size
has been assumed and is given below. The costs are for tin mines which
are expected to dominate the work of the Fund, and they are considered suffi-
ciently representative of exploration costs of other types of Bolivian mineral
deposits.
Estimated Exploration Costs
(US$ thousands--1978 terms)
Gross Mine Output        Stage A   Stage B   Stage C   Stage D        Total
(TPD)
50-125                  5        25         150        470          650
125-250                 5         50         370        580        1,005
250-500                  5        85         770        660        1,520
500-1,000                5       100       1,023        835        1,963
7.07      The Fund intends to finance 100% of the exploration cost of the
mines with potential output in the two lower categories, and 50% of the cost
of exploration of the mines in the higher categories. The expenditure schedule
for exploration costs for Stages A, B, C and D projects has been based on
this assumed financing. The projections assume the 1979-82 Operations Program
outlined in para. 5.04, and thereafter a schedule as shown below for selected
years.  The progression of one successful project (1S) from Stage A to Stage D
is shown in parentheses.



- 46 -
Exploration Schedule for Selected Years--Optimistic Case
(Number of Projects per Exploration Stage)
1983       1984        1985        1986
40A (IS)   40A         40A         40A
6B         6B (1S)    6B           6B
2C         2C          2C (IS)    2C
ID         2D          2D          ID (IS)
7.08      The schedule of exploration projects and related expenditures is
assumed to be the same in the optimistic and pessimistic projections, but
the probabilities of successful mining exploitation based on completed
exploration work are assumed to be different. In the pessimistic case, the
probabilities of success are assumed to be 1:60, while in the optimistic case
the probability ratio is 1:30.
D.   Other Costs
7.09      The general expenses of the Fund include personnel services,
materials and supplies and other overhead expenses that cannot be allocated
to exploration activities. These expenses are assumed to be independent
of the volume of exploration undertaken in any one year. It is assumed
that in addition to the inflationary increases used in the projections
(para. 7.01), general expenses will increase by 2% per year in real terms
throughout the projection period.
7.10      The prospection promotion activities of the Fund include the salary
and other costs of FNEM's Prospection Division which will prepare promotion
profiles of territories available for prospection. In addition to assumed
inflationary increases of 15% p.a., prospection costs are assumed to increase
by 5% p.a., in real terms over the projection period.
7.11      Technical assistance and training to be financed through the pro-
posed IDA credit is assumed to be used between 1980 and 1982. Thereafter
it is assumed that no further technical assistance will be used.
7.12      Depreciation charges have been excluded from the exploration costs
in the projections of FNEM's operating budget sources and uses, since these
projections are on a cash basis and depreciation charges are non-cash expenses.
Exploration investments to be repaid by mining enterprises would include
depreciation, however, to reflect the use of fixed assets of the Fund for
exploration activities.
7.13      Fixed asset costs include new purchases in 1979 and 1980 and re-
placements at regular intervals thereafter for camping equipment, vehicles,
communications equipment, drills, heavy exploration equipment and consumables.



- 47 -
7.14      Financial charges consist of interest payable on:  (i) the 1977
Central Bank loan of US$1.2 million; (ii) the 1979 Central Bank loan of
US$0.25 million; and (iii) the IDA credit of US$7.5 million that is on-lent by
the Government to FNEM, all on terms described in paras. 6.08 and 6.13.
7.15      The projections assume no charges for taxation, since the Fund
is tax-exempt.
E.   Financial Projections
7.16      FNEM revenues consist of royalty and interest payment receipts.
Projected financial statements of the sources and uses of the Fund's operating
budget over the next 20 years are given under "optimistic" and "pessimistic"
scenarios in Annexes 7-1 and 7-2 and are summarized below.
7.17      The optimistic projections assume that, over a 20-year period, 20
exploration projects undertaken by FNEM will subsequently generate revenues.
Royalty payments will start as early as 1982. This is based on the almost
immediate production of ore expected from tunneling work on a known vein
deposit and minor plant improvements being financed by FNEM under a Stage B
contract at Buena Esperanza. In 1983, 3 additional projects are expected to
be completed (Cerro Grande, Totoral and Fabulosa) and, having undergone
2 years of mine development assumed to be required in most cases, to be
generating royalty payments. In 1984, another 3 projects are assumed to be
generating royalties, of which 2 are already identified (Sayaquira and Kalo
Uyo). Thereafter, new royalty payments from one project a year are assumed
to start. The early build-up in royalty receipts is based on 6 of the 14
projects that have been identified by FNEM for exploration financing beyond
Stage A and that remain good prospects. Since royalty payments are to be
based on total mine production and all 6 projects are mine expansions, the
build-up is considered reasonable under optimum conditions.
.7.18      The pessimistic projections assume that only 10 FNEM projects will
generate revenues over the 20-year projection period and that the first
royalties to be received by FNEM will be in 1983. Three projects are assumed
to start generating royalty payments in 1984, but none in 1985. Thereafter,
only one new project is assumed to be generating royalty payments every other
year.
7.19      Both optimistic and pessimistic projections indicate that the Fund
is not likely to generate much excess cash that could be used to increase the
size of its exploration program, allhough under "optimistic" assumptions the
amount of cash generated could for a limited period of time be sufficient to
cover the full operating costs of a continued Program of US$2.2 million per
year in 1978 real terms. However, l-he chance of this occurring is dependent
upon the assumed probabilities of mineral discovery.



- 48 -
FNEM--Optimistic Case Summary of Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(US$ million--nominal terms until 1982, real terms thereafter)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
FNEM Revenues /a       -      -       -      -      0.04  0.86   2.06   3.02   3.47   2.98
Govt. Contribution   0.12   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20  1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20
Central Bank Loans   0.69   0.42    -        -       -     -      -       -      -       -
IDA                    -     0.43   1.53   1.72   3.82   -        -       -      -       -
Other Foreign
Sources /b            -     0.57   2.59   1.13    -       -      -       -      -      -
Total Sources    0.81      62   5.32   4.05   5..06  2.06   3.26   4.22   4.67   4.18
General Expenses      0.30   0.36   0.43   0.50   0.58  0.59   0.60   0.62   0.63   0.64
Exploration Costs /c 0.30   1.63   3.72   2.78   3.60  2.14   1.21   1.27   2.48   1.14
Other Costs /d        0.05   0.52   1.04   0.58   0.60  0.41   0.63   0.79   0.29   0.50
Debt-Service Costs   0.04   0.07   0.10   0.14   0.21  0.26   1.11   1.20   1.14   0.98
Total Uses       0.69   2.58   5.29   4.00   4.99  3.40   3.55   3.88   4.54   3.26
Annual Cash Surplus  0.12   0.04   0.03   0.05   0.07 (1.34) (0.29)  0.34   0.13   0.92
(Deficit)
Cumulative Cash
Surplus (Deficit)  0.12   0.16   0.19   0.24   0.31 (1.03) (1.32) (0.98) (0.85)  0.07
/a   Royalty and interest payments.
/b   Bilateral grants from BRGM and GTZ.
/c   General exploration surveys and exploration contracts.
/d   Fixed assets, prospection promotion, technical assistance and training.
7.20      The "optimistic" projections indicate that above the external
financing assumed to be forthcoming over the 1978-87 period--based on that
shown in para. 6.09 for the proposed Project and Government-subscribed annual
commitments through 1987 (para. 6.10)--FNEM will require additional financial
support of about US$1.3 million through 1987 if the Government commitment
of U$1.2 million p.a. (1983-87) is not accelerated to cover prior years'
deficits. 1/ In addition, due to the assumption that FNEM will increasingly
finance exploration of smaller deposits with less output potential and cash
generation as the larger "known" deposits become explored, the projections
1/   No interest is assumed on these additional financing requirements.



-- 49 -
as shown in detail in Annex 7-1 indicate the need for annual support of about
US$1.6 million over the 15 years following the Project disbursement period in
order to continue an Operations Program of US$2.2 million per year in 1978
real terms.
7.21      The "pessimistic case" gives a more conservative analysis of the cash
flow position of FNEM as shown in the summary table below.
FNEM--Pessimistic Case Summary of Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(US$ million--nominal terms until 1982, real terms thereafter)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
FNEM Revenues /a       -        -      -      -       -    0.41   1.44   2.10   2.67   2.48
Govt. Contribution   0.12   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20  1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20   1.20
Central Bank Loan    0.69   0.42    -         -       -     -       -       -      -       -
IDA                    -      0.43   1.53   1.72   3.82   -         -       -      -       -
Other Foreign
Sources /b            -      0.57   2.59   1.13    -       -       -      -       -       -
Total Sources    0.81   2.62   5.32   4.05   5.02  1.61   2.64   3.30   3.87   3.68
General Expenses      0.30   0.36   0.43   0.50   0.57  0.59   0.60   0.62   0.63   0.64
Exploration Costs /c 0.30   1.63   3.72   2.78   3.60  2.14   1.21   1.27   2.48   1.14
Other Costs /d        0.05   0.52   1.04   0.58   0.60  0.41   0.63   0.79   0.29   0.50
Debt-Service Costs   0.04   0.07   0.10   0.14   0.21  0.26   1.11   1.20   1.14   0.98
Total Uses        0.69   2.58   5.29   4.00   4.98  3.40   3.55   3.88   4.54   3.26
-~~~~~~ _                        -         .=            = 
Annual Cash Surplus
(Deficit)           0.12   0.04   0.03   0.05   0.04 (1.79) (0.91) (0.58) (0.67)  0.42
Cumulative Cash
Surplus (Deficit)  0.12   0.16   0.19   0.24   0.28 (1.51) (2.42) (3.00) (3.67) (3.25)
/a   Royalty and interest payments.
/b   Bilateral grants from BRGM and GTZ.
/c   General exploration surveys and exploration contracts.
/d   Fixed assets, prospection promotion, technical assistance and training.
7.22      The additional financing over and above external financing required
by FNEM under the more pessimistic assumptions is about US$3.7 million 1/
through 1987. Thereafter, FNEM would not be capable of covering the costs
of its Operations Program through royalties and interest payments generated
from successful projects, but would require annual support equal to the
cost of continuing an Operations Program of US$2.2 million per year in 1978
real terms.
1/   No interest is assumed on these additional financing requirements.



- 50 -
7.23      FNEM's capacity to service debt is dependent upon Government support
until such time as FNEM receives a sufficient level of royalty payments to
cover its cash requirements. In the "optimistic" scenario, FNEM begins to be
capable of servicing debt through interest and royalty payments in 1983, and
in the "pessimistic" case, in 1984. To the extent royalty payments might not
be forthcoming, the Government would be required to provide sufficient funds
for FNEM to meet its obligations (para 7.24).
7.24      The financial uncertainties with respect to cash generation based
on royalties and future exploration requirements mean that the Fund should
have access to continued sources of financing over a longer period of time.
However, it is premature to establish actual funding requirements beyond the
4-year Operations Program covered by the Project (1979-82) before the review
of FNEM future operations level scheduled for 1982 (para. 5.16). To ensure
that appropriate arrangements have been made to maintain the Fund's financial
solvency and allow it to execute an agreed-upon Operations Program, agreement
has been reached with the Government and the Fund that:
(a) the Fund will undertake an annual review of its financial
position and financial requirements in consultation with
IDA;
(b) the Government will pay in the average annual capital
subscription of US$1.2 million according to the disburse-
ment procedure and schedule in paras. 6.10 and 6.16
required for the prompt implementation of the 1979-82
Operations Program;
(c) the Fund will furnish to the Association not later than
March 15, 1982, a report reviewing the experience gained
by the Fund as a consequence of the Project, and providing
the scope and appropriate funding of the 1983-87 Operations
Program; but, in any case, the Government will provide suf-
ficient funds to FNEM to ensure that the Fund can meet all
its payment obligations during the time in which the IDA
credit proceeds on-lent to FNEM are outstanding with the
Fund; and
(d) the Fund will agree not to contract any new debt, except as
agreed with IDA, until the Closing Date, and thereafter, only
if on the basis of financial projections acceptable to IDA,
its projected debt-service coverage from royalties based on
production from reserves that are revenue generating would
be more than 1.5 and its debt:equity ratio 50:50 or less.
F.  Mlonitoring and Evaluation of Exploration Portfolio
7.25      The projections are constructed on assumptions which take into
account the number of projects that will be undertaken, the cost effective-
ness per project (the value of ore reserve found in relation to project



-- 51 -
expenditures) and the probability of geological discovery. As such, they
indicate key areas for monitoring. The cost monitoring system to be set up
with IDA assistance (para. 4.28) will summarize the status of exploration
expenditures, indicate the amount of exploration expenditures resulting in
successful exploration projects and the relative effectiveness of these
expenditures in terms of royalties generated. The cost monitoring system
should generate the basic data needed to monitor and evaluate FNEM's explora-
tion portfolio.
G.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.26      The Fund has not yet made provisions for external auditing of its
accounts. The appointment of qualified outside auditors acceptable to the
Association will be a condition of credit effectiveness. It is expected
that the 1977 audited results will be available in the Association not later
than September 30, 1979. FNEM has agreed to have its accounts and financial
statements audited annually by qualified outside auditors acceptable to IDA
and furnished to the Association not later than 4 months after the end of
each fiscal year. FNEM has also agreed to forward to IDA, on a quarterly
basis (i) unaudited financial statements; and on a monthly basis, (ii) a
progress report on operations, (iii) a status report on credit agreements;
(iv) a report on the training program; and (v) a status report on consultants
and service contracts and sub-contracts. The progress report on operations
should include--in addition to a summary of applications received, the status
of work and intermediate results on, exploration projects and a summary of the
work program for the next month--a description of major problems and timetable
of steps to be taken.
H.   Financial Rate of Return
7.27      The financial rate of return analysis has little meaning for this
type of Project. It is anticipatecl that the Fund will have difficulties
in becoming self-replenishing through royalty payments from successful mining
operations even under assumptions made for the "optimistic" financial projec-
tions (para. 7.17).
I.   Major Risks
7.28      A revolving fund for mineral exploration is necessarily a high-risk
operation. However, FNEM has attempted to reduce the inherent exploration
risk by adopting an Operations Program over the next 4 years which includes
several relatively large expansions of developed mines, a lower-risk activity
than pure exploration of entirely new mines. It is likely, given the lack of
systematic identification of new reserves by most mines in Bolivia over the
last 30 years, that mine expansions would continue to make up the bulk of Fund
financing in the foreseeable future. Thereafter, plans assume that smaller
deposits or grass-roots exploration will be preponderant, thus increasing the
degree of risk associated with the FNEM portfolio.
7.29      The financial risk of the Fund is related to its operational risks,
to the extent that it would have to rely on royalty payments to cover not only



- 52 -
its operating costs and debt service but continuing investments in exploration
beyond the initial 4-year Operations Program. Were financial self-sufficiency
the prime objective of the Fund, it would at best be attained for several
years only under the "optimistic" assumptions and probably never under the
"pessimistic" assumptions. There is therefore a high likelihood that the Fund
will never build up sufficient royalty payments to sustain an annual US$2.2
million Operations Program without external credits or Government subsidies.
However, since the major objective of the Fund is to increase exploration in
Bolivia and not the profitability of the Fund per se, the financial risk for
FNEM will be covered by the Government's commitment to provide funding for
continuation of an exploration program at an appropriate level (paras. 5.16
and 7.24).
7.30      The inexperience of FNEM's management and staff exposes the Fund
to some risk, as funds may be committed for sub-standard projects. The
Project seeks to strengthen FNEM management through the provision of short-
term technical assistance and training to the Fund over the Project disburse-
ment period. Technical assistance will also be provided under German bi-
lateral assistance during the first 2 years of the Project period. The
Project also seeks to strengthen FNEM through agreed-upon operating pro-
cedures, including technical and financial criteria for project selection.
7.31      A major risk of the Project relates to the Fund's primary objective
of increasing exploration and mineral production in Bolivia: that is the risk
that mining enterprises would not--for various reasons--apply for FNEM finan-
cial assistance at the level expected and economically desirable because they
consider their possible future financial obligations to the Fund as poten-
tially so burdensome that, together with their tax obligations, financial
returns from incremental production from FNEM-financed exploration would be
marginal. In the near-term (1979-82) Operations Program, the risk of insuf-
ficient demand appears to be covered by (i) the need for these enterprises to
identify an adequate volume of new reserves to maintain existing production
levels, which over the past decade they have been unable to do; (ii) the
existence of "known" deposits that are relatively high grade and that would
be commercially profitable to explore and develop despite adverse mining tax
laws; (iii) the lack of alternative sources of finance for exploration other
than through internally generated funds; and (iv) the tax incentives offered
by exploration and development to users of the Fund. The formula and terms
of FNEM repayment have been carefully assessed to ensure that they would
not adversely affect demand for FNEM financing (paras. 5.12, 5.13). However,
after the present backlog of exploration needs has been satisfied, the
demand for Fund involvement may decrease as the type of exploration projects,
their risks and expected viability change. The Project takes into account
the likely shift in the Fund's exploration portfolio as well as other risks
associated with the pilot nature of the Project by providing for a review of
FNEM activities before disbursement of the second tranche of the IDA credit,
and again in 1982 (paras. 5.16, 5.20). If adjustments in royalties, work
program, etc., are needed to achieve the Fund's objective and attract promis-
ing projects, the Government, the Fund and IDA must be prepared to make needed
changes in Fund lending volume, policies and procedures.



- 53 -
7.32      Another major risk of the Project relates to the uncertainties
in the political environment for mining investment. Medium-size mines
that expand through exploration and development do so at a certain risk
of nationalization by the Government and, thus, may be deterred from ex-
pansions. Further mining taxation poLicies constrain demand for exploration
and development by making the financial returns from all but high-grade ore
production (above 1% tin content of mined ore) marginal. Exploration and
exploitation of new mining deposits wiLth grades lower than 1% of tin content
can be made financially viable through taxation reform; such action would
ensure increased demand for exploration and subsequent mining production.
7.33      Finally, there is the risk that mining enterprises may request FNEM
assistance primarily for less-promising deposits, to prove out concessions
without the intention of proceeding promptly to mine exploitation thereafter,
or would plainly seek to avoid the payment of royalties. This risk can be
overcome by competent Fund management that screens its projects with a view
to establishing a portfolio of promising projects and offers repayment terms
that are sufficiently attractive to sustain demand for Fund financing. In
addition, the general conditions of FNEM credit agreements to be put into
effect prior to credit effectiveness will include a severe penalty provision
for mining enterprises that opt to terminate agreements with FNEM, despite
FNEM's recommendation for more intensive exploration (para. 4.23).
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
8.01      The Government identified the mining sector's failure to develop a
systematic exploration program for development of reserves in existing mines
and for discovery of new mines as a major reason for the lagging contribution
of the mining sector to the national economy. The Project provides support to
FNEM, established by the Government to carry out such a program, and will have
a direct impact on FNEM's capability to contribute to the economic and fiscal
objectives of the Government for the sector, as well as to more general
socio-economic objectives for the country.
A.   Economic Costs and Benefits
8.02      The economic analysis focuses on the total direct and indirect
economic impact of the Fund's exploration activities, assumed in the finan-
cial projections (Chapter VII) to be maintained over a 20-year period.
Economic benefits, therefore, consist of the total incremental revenues
generated by increased ore production that results from FNEM exploration;
economic costs consist of total capital and operating costs of incremental
production, i.e., FNEM costs plus the costs of developing and exploiting
FNEM-discovered deposits. A detailed list of all assumptions used for the
economic analysis is given in Annex 8, and major components are summarized
below.



- 54 -
8.03      To enable the full costs and benefits arising from Fund-financed
exploration to be analyzed, a model was developed of the costs to bring pro-
mising prospects explored by the Fund into commercial production and maintain
output thereafter. The costs include: (i) investment required for mine
development; (ii) operating costs for mine production; and (iii) freight
and smelting charges. Since medium miners can sell directly abroad, no
transactional costs are included. The costs, based on tin deposits since
90% of FNEM discoveries are expected to be tin mines, were developed with
the assistance of FNEM and reviewed with international mining consultants
with experience in Bolivia. Mining costs have been calculated on the basis
of an estimated US$30 equivalent per metric ton of concentrates and smelt-
ing charges at US$600 equivalent per ton of concentrates. Estimated mine
development costs for the 4 size ranges of mines are shown below:
BOLIVIA--Estimated Mine Development and Production Costs /a
(US$ thousands--1978 Terms)
Gross Mine Output    Mine Investment    Mining Costs    Freight          Smelting
50 -   125          300 - 1,650         315 -   800    15 -  38    50 -   185
125 -   250        1,150 - 3,500        800 - 1,600    38 -  75   125 -   380
250 -   500        2,200 - 4,600       1,600 - 3,200    75 - 150   250 -   760
500 - 1,000        3,500 - 6,300      3,200 - 6,100   150 - 300   500 - 1,500
/a   Minimum/maximum cost ranges.
8.04      Total economic costs of FNEM exploration activities were developed
to include: (i) capital costs for exploration incurred by the Fund, including
consulting and service contract costs, fixed assets, technical assistance and
Fund services directly related to exploration project work, but eliminating
depreciation included in exploration cost estimates; (ii) operating costs
comprising the administrative costs of FNEM, but excluding interest charges;
and (iii) mine development and production costs for successful FNEM projects
that result in increased production of ore based on the model described
above.
B.   Economic Rate of Return
8.05      For purposes of economic analysis, the following adjustment has
been made to real-term economic cost and benefit streams: shadow pric-
ing of foreign exchange costs and benefits by 25% to reflect foreign trade
distortions due to export taxes and currency disequilibriums caused by
differences in local and foreign rates of inflation. For this purpose, it
has been assumed that 100% of revenues, 20% of exploration cost expenditures,
75% of mine investment costs and 100% of smelting and freight charges would
be foreign exchange. Operating costs have been assumed to be 100% local
expenditures. Taxes and transfer payments have been excluded. As noted, FNEM
activities have been assumed over a 20-year period. However, since revenues
from successful exploration and development during this period would be
generated for an additional 7 years, the revenue and mining cost streams have
been assumed over a 27-year period.



- 55 -
8.06      The economic importance of ithe Project far exceeds its direct
financial benefits to the Fund as illustrated by the economic rate of return
of 25% in the "optimistic" case and 113% in the "pessimistic" case. The sen-
sitivity results are summarized below:
FNEM--Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
Optimistic Case                                            25.1
Exploration cost increase of 10%                         24.4
Administrative cost increase of 10%                      24.9
Mine Development cost increase of 10%                    22.7
Sales revenue decrease of 10%                            21.4
Sales revenue decrease of 20%                            17.3
Pessimistic Case                                            17.8
Exploration cost increase of 10%                          17.2
Administrative cost increase of 10%                       17.7
Mine development cost increase of 10%                     16.2
Sales revenue decrease of 10%                             15.1
Sales revenue decrease of 20%                            12.0
8.07      The projected ranges of eccnomic rates of return of 25% under
the various sensitivity assumptions far exceed the average economic rates
of returns of 10%-15% experienced generally for mining projects. This under-
lines the urgent need and substantial prospect for exploration and mine
development in Bolivia. The financial return to the mining enterprise,
nevertheless, would still be marginal for all but high-grade deposits dis-
covered and exploited (para. 2.08) due to the extraordinarily burdensome
mining tax. The tax relief offered to FNEM users indicates awareness by
the Government of the need to make changes in the tax system to develop the
full economic potential of the sector. Even if the Fund would charge no
royalties, but be replenished solely by Government subsidies, its activities
would be fully justified from an economic point of view. Collection of
royalties and revolvability of the Fund are a mechanism to tax the successful
exploration and mine development projects and minimize the use of Government
subsidies. However, the Fund's main objective of stimulating exploration to
increase mine output in Bolivia is independent of the repayment mechanism
used by the Fund (other than if this mechanism were to discourage the explora-
tion activity per se) and depends primarily on the Fund's technical expertise
in selecting and exploring promising exploration prospects.
C.   Foreign Exchange Benefits
8.08      An analysis has been made of the foreign exchange earnings that
would be generated by the export of new mining production from mining deposits
explored by the Fund under the assumed implementation and repayment schedules
developed for the financial projections. In the optimistic case, when revenues



- 56 -
to the Fund are assumed to start in 1982, the foreign exchange benefits to be
generated from the new production total US$113 million up to 1990, as is shown
below; in the pessimistic case where commercial production from the first
discovery will start in 1983, foreign exchange benefits for the 1985-90 period
are still estimated at US$78 million despite slower build-up in successful
projects (para. 7.18). This analysis is conservative since it assumes that no
foreign credits are available to finance mine development and therefore
repayments--which in case such credits were to be incurred--would start to be
flowing out only in the later years.
FNEM--Foreign Exchange Benefits - Optimistic Case
(US$ Thousands - 1978 Terms)
13 a    1980   1981   1982   1983 18    1985   1986   1987   19 ~88               9 15
I. Fcreign Exchange Inflo-
Foreign loans                      425  1,525  1,725  3,825        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Foreign Grants                     575  2,600  1,175       -       -       -       -       -       -      _        -       -
Subtotal                              125  2,850-                     -      -       -       -       -       -       -
II. Foreign lxcha.   Outflow
1.  Capital Expenditures
Exploration costs             264    606    410    500    279    137    147    328    128    100    140    330
Fixed Assets, Fund            421    563    132       113    214    377    496    113    266    196    397    265
Technical assistance           -      274    258    247        r       -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Mine development costs         -      291  4,396  8,333  5,624  2,915  t 038  3,161  4,305  4,1428  3,68  _3.'L
Subtotal                     685  1,734  5,196  9,193  6,117  3,429  2,i81  3,602  4,699  4,724  4,224  40
2.  Debt Service
Financial charges               5      30      70    140    188    494    461    406    374    341    309    276.
Loai repanment/a               -       -       -       -       -      546    546    546    546    546    546    546
Subtotal                       5      30      70    140    188  1040  1,007    952    920    887    855  & 22
Total FE Outflow              690  1,764  5,266  9,333  6,305  4,469  4,688  4,554  5,619  5,611  5,079  j 227
III. Total Export Revenues               -       -              344  5,8 i12L,   lQ 12  7                   2i,18J. 27=~a    2_8
IV. Foreign Exc ten   _ Surolus,       310  2,361 (2,416)(5,164)(  907) 7,875 14,037 17,983 17,740 18,570 20,454 21,981
(Deficit)
V. Acu mlated  Foreign Exchange   310  2,671    255 (4,909)(5,816) 2,059 16,096 34,079 51,819 70,389 90,843 112,824
Surplus (Deficit)
/a   Includes 41 annual interest deferred during grace period
D.   Fiscal Benefits
8.09             An analysis of the fiscal impact that can be expected, based on
production from new mines explored by the Fund, indicates that the Govern-
ment could expect a net fiscal benefit from the Project of US$38 million
by 1990 under optimistic assumptions. Under pessimistic assumptions, the
Government could expect a net fiscal benefit of US$22 million by 1990. It
is to the long-term benefit of the Government to support the Fund financially



- 57 -
even if such support is required over a long period of time. Fiscal revenue
calculations are based on the combined burden of a tax on gross revenues from
new production of ore which, in the case of tin, amounts to about 38% of
presumed income from gross sales rev,enue, an export tax which amounts to 7.5%
of gross sales revenue and an additional tax of 1.1% of gross sales revenue
for mining research. The tax incentive allows users of the Fund to deduct 60%
of royalty payments to the Fund from taxes owed to the Government. Even
should the Government implement ultimately a profit-based mining tax reform
(para. 2.09) reducing the total tax burden by 20%-30%, the fiscal benefits
from projects benefiting from FNEM-financed exploration would still be
significant. Moreover, FNEM, by generating additional mining exports, sup-
ports the more than US$50 million in duties on imports paid through the
foreign exchange earnings of the mining sector. It should be noted, however,
that the fiscal benefits of FNEM assume that none of the incremental output
would have come forward without the Fund's activity. This is more likely to
be the case for the lower-grade deposits and smaller mines unable to obtain
finance for expansion from commercial channels than for the larger mines with
higher-grade deposits that are more financially secure. The analysis for the
optimistic case is shown in the table below:
Estimated Incremental Fiscal Benefits--Optimistic Case
(US$ millions--1978 Terms)
1982 1983 1984 1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
1.  Government Tax
Receipta
1.  Regalia /a  0.09   1.46   3.33    5.06  6.08  6.31  6.53  6.89  7.35
2. Export Tax lb   0.03 0.40 0.93 1.40  1.69  1.75  1.81  1.92  2.04
3. Cther Taxesa c    -   0.06 0.14 0.21  0.25  0.26  0.27  0.28  0.30
Subtotal     0.12 1.92 4.30 6.67  8.02  8.32  8.61  9.09  9.69
II. Tax Incentive Id    0.01 0.26 0.60 0.90  1.08  1.12  1.16  1.23  1.31
III. Government Fiscal
Benefit        0.11 1.66 3.80 5.77  6.94  7.20  7.45  7.86  8.38
IV. Acumulated Fiscal
Benefit        0.11 1.77  5.57 1L1.34 18.28  25.47  32.92 40.78 49.16
V. Accum. Government
Support to FXEM   4.92 6.12 7.32 8.52  9.72 10.92 10.92 10.92 10.92
VI. Net Govern.ment
Fiscal Benefit   (4.92) (4.35) (1.75) 2.82  8.56  14.55 22.00 29.86 38.24
/a 38% of presumed income from tin exports, based on presumed cost of US$1.80 per lb of tin priced at
us$6.00 per lb.
/b 7.5% of gross value of exports.
/c 1.1% of gross value of exports
Id 60% of FNEM royalty receipts deductible.



- 58 -
8.10      Under assumptions regarding exploration and mine development made
above, the operations of the Fund would assist in creating or preserving
1,275 permanent jobs in mining production in the "optimistic" case and about
700 under the "pessimistic" assumptions. The jobs would be created in the
case of new (or expansion) mine discoveries and development and preserved
in the case of mines that would have closed down if new reserves had not
been identified. The estimated numbers of those directly employed is based
on the estimated average productivity of mine workers in Bolivia.
8.11      Additional permanent employment will be generated in the local
service and consulting companies that will be expanded as a result of Fund
activities. The amount of indirect employment created cannot be estimated
but should be a large multiple of the direct employment, particularly in
the creation of supporting services and facilities around a mine site.
8.12      Local capabilities in mining and exploration development will be
increased through experience and through the involvement of foreign service
and consulting companies that are likely to be used in collaboration with
local firms as a result of Fund operations. Fund professionals will be
exposed to technical assistance and training, gaining technical skills and
experience which will be required in other Bolivian enterprises when explor-
ation activities increase.
E.   Other Benefits
8.13      Mining production techniques, particularly in beneficiation and
concentration of ore, are inefficient and high cost. The Fund's operation
will help to introduce updated techno'ogies through its feasibility work and
through its ability to attract qualified and experienced technical personnel
and equipment suppliers. With improved methods of beneficiation, for example,
recovery of concentrates from gross mine output can be increased on average
for a typical, poor-grade ore from 35% to 80%. The capability of the Fund
to introduce these changes, however, will depend to a large extent on mining
taxation reform to stimulate new mining investment (para. 2.09).
8.14      The Fund activities should provide for increased capacity util-
ization of the existing national smelters as well as of new planned capacity
in tin, lead and silver. Local smelting, however, will only be beneficial
to the local mining enterprise if mineral prices from ENAF are not based on
foreign costs. A change in the regulation preventing ENAF from charging
foreign costs for smelting would assist in stimulating output for greater
value added in Bolivia and in providing the mining sector with much-needed
funds for exploration.
8.15      New mine developments and job creation should result in improvements
in living conditions in regions that are geographically isolated and marginal
in the general economy of the country. Active mines are sub-centers of
development with their own rural facilities and amenities. The Project will
have a direct impact on the betterment of living conditions in properties
which are developed as a result of Fund activities.



- c9 9
IX. REC_NENDATIONS
9.01       IDA has obtained the followi.ng major agreements and assurances:
(a)  the L_cree-law creating the Fund, or its by-laws, would not
be modified without IDA's agreement (paras. 4.02, 4.05);
(b)  FNEM internal regulations that could limit contracting of
services according to IDA guidelines will not apply to
IDA-financed services, and IDA-financed goods and services
will be procured according to IDA guidelines (paras. 4.05,
6.15);
(c) agreed criteria will be used by FNEM for evaluating explora-
tion projects financed by IDA (paras. 4.16, 5.09);
(d) all contracts with mine owners will be subject to the Fund's
general conditions and will include certain provisions
(paras. 4.23, 5.11);
(e) FNEM will hire an accounting firm on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA for finacial and cost control purposes
(para. 4.28);
(f) IDA will approve the work programs and credit agreements,
for the B-D Stage projects to be financed by IDA (para.
5.06);
(g)  FNEM's exposure will be limited to US$2.0 million for projects
presented or sponsored by the same owner (para. 5.08);
(h) the Fund will not finance pilot testing plants or the
rehabilitation of processing plants unless certain con-
ditions are met (para. 5.10);
(i) the Fund will furnish IDA by March 15, 1982, a report
on its operating experiences and the program for 1983-87
which it will start to put into effect, before September 30,
1982, after exchanging views with IDA (paras. 5.16, 7.24);
(j) the Fund will contract consultants and contractors on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras. 5.19, 6.15) for
the carrying out of projects:
(k) the Fund will, by January 1, 1980, start a training program
that is satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.21);
(1) short-term consultant services will be agreed by IDA and the
Fund every six months (para. 5.22);
(m)  the Government will on-lend the IDA credit to the Fund
on agreed terms and conditions (para. 6.08);



- 60 -
(n)  the Government will contribute to the Fund according to
an agreed timetable and disbursement of IDA funds will be
contingent upon the Government being up to date in its
contribution to the Fund (paras. 6.11, 7.24);
(o)  the Fund will undertake an annual review of its financial
position and requirements in consultation with IDA (para.
7.24);
(p)  the Fund will not contract any new debt until the Closing
Date of the proposed credit, unless on the basis of
financial projections acceptable to IDA, its projected
debt service coverage is more than 1.5 and the debt/equity
ratio is 50:50 or less. The current ratio will be kept at
all times at 1 or higher (para. 7.24); and
(q)  the Fund will provide IDA with quarterly financial reports
and monthly progress reports (para. 7.26).
9.02      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  adoption by FNEM of general conditions acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.23);
(b)  enactment of a Joint Ministerial Resolution clarifying
the decree providing incentives with advantages in
royalty payments (para. 5.13);
(c)  conclusion of the German bi-lateral assistance agreement
for completion of FNEM's financing plan (para. 6.12); and
(d)  appointment by FNEM of qualified, independent auditors
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 7.26).
9.03      The following are conditions of credit commitments/disbursements:
(a)  after the earlier of a date 18 months from the effective
date or when the equivalent of US$3.5 million from the
credit has been committed, assessment by IDA, following an
exchange of views with FNEM or the Government, on FNEM's
performance in carrying out the Project and on whether the
purposes of the credit can be accomplished by the Fund
(para. 5.20); and
(b)  payment of all due quarterly installments by the Government
of its contribution to FNEM (para. 6.11).
9.04      With the preceding agreements and assurances, the Project is suit-
able for an IDA credit of US$7.5 million for 50 years, including 10 years'
grace. Retroactive financing of up to US$25,000 is recommended.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA: NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS
Alluvial Deposit           Earth, sand, gravel or other rock or mineral materials
transported and laid down by flowing water. Alluvial
deposits generally take the form of surface deposits,
river deposits, or shore deposits.
Drift                      Usually a horizontal gallery in or near an ore
deposit and parallel to the long dimension of the
deposit or to the course of the vein. It is usually
of a relatively small cross section. Larger sections
are commonly called tunnels.
Concentration              Separation and accumulation of economic minerals
from gangue.
Geophysical Survey         The survey of an area in which geophysical properties
and relationships unique to the area are mapped by
one or more geophysical methods.
Geochemical Survey         A survey involving the geochemical analysis of sys-
tematically collected samples of rocks, soil, plants,
or water.
Ore Reserve                The term is usually restricted to ore of which the
grade and the tonnage have been established with rea-
sonable assurance by drilling and other means.
Proven Reserves            Ore deposits; which have been reliably established as to
their volume, tonnage and quality by approved sampling,
valuing and testing methods.
Possible Reserves          A class of cre whose existence is a reasonable possi-
bility, based primarily upon the strength and con-
tinuity of geologic-mineralogic relationships and
upon the extent of ore deposits already developed.
Because of the comparative absence of mine workings
which could reveal assay values, possible ore cannot
be assigned a grade with any meaningful certainty
nor can the quantity be expressed as a definite,
absolute amount.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Probable Ore              A class of ore whose occurrence is for all essential
purposes reasonably assured but not absolutely cer-
tain. A definite grade can be assigned to the tons
thus classified. Probable ore, however, is not
amenable to immediate mining, although the probable
ore could, through development work, become mine-
able in a relatively short time.
Prospecting               Geological survey searching for outcrops, surface
exposure, or geochemical and geophysical anomalies
to discover mineral deposits.
Pre-Cambric Shield        Rocks older than the Cambrian age.
Refining of Metals        Metallurgic operations performed after the crude
metals have been extracted from their ores in order
to obtain them in a condition of higher purity.
Sampling                  Cutting a small part of an ore deposit, which should
truly be representative of the deposit's average
value in an established zone.
Smelting                  Metallurgical operation in which metal is separated
by fusion from those impurities in minerals with
which it may be chemically combined or physically
mixed.
Trench                    A narrow, shallow ditch cut across a mineral deposit
to obtain samples or to establish geological trends.
Vein Deposit              Usually narrow and steeply inclined zones of mineral-
ized rock lying within boundaries clearly separating
them from mineralized rock.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
POTENTIAL EXPLORATION PROJECTS FOR FNEM FINANCING
1.        At the time of the Appraisal in April/May 1978, 18 prospects con-
sidered promising had been successfully studied through Stage A. Since then,
however, 7 prospects have been deleted for reasons of insufficient geological
potential, low mineral prices (antimc,ny) and lack of owner interest and 3
prospects added as a result of Stage A surveys during the last 5 months.
Summarized as follows is a descriptic,n of the 14 remaining prospects which
are the basis of FNEM's 1979-82 Operations Program.
2.        Buena Esperanza.  This small mine is located approximately 307 km
SE of La Paz and extends through altitudes ranging from 2,950-3,200 meters.
Discovered in 1939, it is presently c,wned by Sr. Augusto Saravia and has been
mined by three different operators. In addition to housing for 33 employees,
existing facilities include a concentrating plant with a rated capacity of
20 TPD, which is operated 8 hours per day at a rate only 3-4 TPD because of
inadequate maintenance. Its application for FNEM financing for exploration
was presented on September 27, 1977. Preliminary field investigation, under
Stage A, was carried out by FNEM staff from November 8-12, 1977, confirming
the existence of micro-crystalline, cassiterite mineralization in 4 nearly-
vertical vein structures of about 300 meters, which extend horizontally over
a total of 800 meters, with an average thickness of about 0.6 meters.
3.        Based on results from Stage A, FNEM plans to finance further ex-
ploration to be undertaken in February-November 1979 to confirm the existence
of about 190,000 tons of ore reserves, with an average grade of 1.0% tin,
which FNEM staff estimate can be processed with a recovery of 50% at a rate of
40 TPD. According to existing contracts, this additional exploration will
be carried out at a cost of US$109,000 under Stage B by the mine owner, with
assistance and supervision of Fernando Blanco, a local consultant. It will
comprise: (i) establishment of about 1,500 meters of access road within
the property at an estimated cost of US$7,500; (ii) over-hauling existing
plant facilities at an estimated cost of US$7,500 to enable production at a
rate of 20 TPD; kiii) rehabilitation of housing at an estimated cost of
US$2,000; and (iv) approximately 400 meters of drifts and 60 meters of raises
to develop ore reserves. Accordingly, FNEM and the mine owner envisage
processing a mine production of 20 TP?D in tin ores from exploration develop-
ment work during Stage B. If successful, this work will also include studies
to justify expanding the processing plant to a capacity of 40 TPD. BAMIN has
already indicated that it could finance this expansion after adequate studies
are completed to its satisfaction.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
4.        Cerro Grande.  This medium-size mine is located in the Department
of Cochabamba, approximately 343 kilometers SE of La Paz. It comprises
3 adjacent mining centers, which extend for nearly 14 sq km, situated at
elevations of about 3,800 meters. These deposits were first mined for
silver during the Spanish rule and, subsequently, for tin since 1880. At
present, they are owned and operated by the Cerro Grande Group which is
controlled by Sres. G. Broersma, P. Espana and C. Oroza. Existing facilities
include housing for 560 workers and two beneficiation plants that produce
concentrates containing 25%-30% tin. One plant has capacity to process
200 TPD, with a recovery of 40%-50%. The other plant has capacity to process
100 TPD, with a recovery of only 30% because it is used to concentrate more
complex tin ores which have finer granulometry and are associated with other
minerals. The application for FNEM financing for exploration was presented
on November 1, 1977. Preliminary field investigation, under Stage A, was
carried out by FNEM staff for 3 prospects, to review ore reserve potentials
from November 7-13 and November 22-26, 1977, and finally from February 14-18,
1978, to review existing difficulties when processing the more complex ores
mentioned above.
5.        Based on the successful results of Stage A investigations, FNEM
plans to finance additional exploration--to be undertaken between October
1979 and mid-1982--at an estimated cost of US$2,689,000, in order to estab-
lish additional proven reserves estimated at 964,000 tons of ore, with an
average grade of 1.53% tin, and to prepare feasibility studies. For this
purpose, exploration would comprise mainly geological surface mapping and
approximately 4,000 meters of tunnelling to cut and follow promising vein
structures already identified. As presently envisaged by FNEM and the mine
owner, the additional ore reserves would be processed at a rate of 300 TPD.
FNEM has shown strong interest in including a pilot plant, estimated to cost
about US$0.2 million, with capacity to treat 80 TPD, as part of its financ-
ing for exploration. The justification for such a plant in an exploration
program remains unclear, particularly because of the (i) specialized nature
of metallurgical testing; (ii) proposed size of the plant; and (iii) existence
of other facilities that can be used for pilot testing on the property and
in Bolivia. Since this exploration project is sufficiently large and very
well defined, FNEM plans to finance and execute it through German bilateral
assistance.
6.        Totoral.  This medium-size mine is located at approximately 60 km
SE of Oruro and at 317 km SE of La Paz. It extends over an area of 5.75 sq
km at elevations of 4,400 meters. Mined by foreign and local operators since
1902, it is presently owned by Compania Minera Orlandini Ltda., a family
group. Existing facilities include housing for 300 workers and a processing
plant for tin ores with capacity to (i) preconcentrate 200 TPD, increasing
the ore grade from 0.9% to 1.8%; and (ii) concentrate 100 TPD, increasing
the ore grade from 1.8% to 47% tin. The application for FNEM financing for
exploration was presented in August 1977. Preliminary field investigations,
under Stage A, made by FNEM staff from August 12-17, 1977, confirmed the
existence of tin mineralization in the form of vein, beds and pipes, along
six geological structures. Three of these structures have not yet been



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
mined and may contain 300,000 tons of ore reserves, with an average grade of
1.2% tin, which could be mined at a rate of 250 TPD. Based on the successful
results from Stage A, FNEM financed additional exploration under Stage B,
which was carried out successfully from January-October 1978 by FNEM staff
and Sr. R. Plenge, a Peruvian consultant, using services from SERMIN for
topographical mapping. This exploration successfully confirmed the findings
of the previous geological investigators.
7.        Based on the results from Stage B, FNEM plans to finance additional
exploration, combining Stages C-D, to be carried out between August 1979 and
March 1981 at a projected cost of US$i0.694 million. As planned, this work
would include approximately 1,420 meters of tunnels to intercept mineralized
structures, 1,360 meters of exploratory drifts along promising structures
and 735 meters of vertical raises to confirm mineralization at different
elevations and provide ventilation and access. As envisaged by FNEM and the
mine owner, the additional exploration would be carried out using independent
consultants and possibly a contractor firm, using surveyors' samplers and
labor from the mine owner. Services from the mine owner will be limited to
providing equipment and labor, excluding technically specialized functions
such as sampling and surveying.
8.        Sayaquira.  This medium-size tin mine is located approximately 222 km
SE of La Paz. It extends over an area of 8.58 sq km, at elevations ranging
between 4,500 and 5,000 meters. Mined by three different operators since the
mid-1800's, these deposits are presently owned by Empresa Minera Barrosquira,
which is two-thirds controlled by the Sarmiento family, and one-third by its
General Manager, Sr. F. Killmand, under a purchase option valid until January
1981. Existing facilities include housing for 211 workers and a concentrat-
ing plant which can process up to 70 TPD, with a recovery of 25%-30%, to
produce concentrates that contain about 26% tin. The low recovery of this
plant is attributable to inadequate process design and maintenance and the
lack of spare parts. Approximately 50% of concentrate production is obtained
manually. The application for FNEM financing for exploration was made on
October 3, 1977. Preliminary field investigations, under Stage A, were made
by FNEM staff from October 18-23, 1977, to review the mine, sample promising
vein structures and examine the possibility of introducing more systematic
mining methods. A follow-up visit was made between February 28 and Mlarch 3,
1978, to review processing facilities and examine specific exploration alter-
natives. Information developed by FNEM confirmed that existing mineralization
may hold ore reserves of 1.0 million tons in sub-vertical veins of thicknesses
ranging from 0.2-2.5 meters, with an average grade of 1.4% tin, which could
be processed with a recovery of 50%. These results are in line with a pre-
feasibility study prepared in 1976 by Sres. Plenge and De Lucio. FNEM has
decided to finance additional exploration of Sayaquira, continuing directly
with Stage C, in view of both the positive Stage A results and the more
advanced status of geological informiation as shown in the 1976 pre-feasibility
study.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
9.        As presently planned by FNEM and the mine owners, Stage C would be
carried out between mid-1979 and mid-1981 at a cost of US$0.759 million. It
would comprise 720 meters of tunnelling to intercept vein formations, 2,840
meters of drifts to follow promising mineralization and 520 meters of raises
to confirm vertical continuity of the veins and provide ventilation and
access. It will also study the possible expansion of plant facilities to
process 200 TPD. The mine owners have expressed interest in also receiving
FNEM financing, estimated at US$0.21 million, to rehabilitate the concentrator
thereby increasing its capacity to 120 TPD during this stage of exploration.
Although financing of minor plant rehabilitation could be undertaken by FNEM,
the proposal received from Sayaquira is clearly a proposition which should be
dealt with in an industrial loan since it involves a relatively large amount
of equipment for production purposes. If successful, Stage C will be followed
by Stage D exploration, which as presently planned would cost US$0.141 million
and would be undertaken between the end of 1981 and mid-1983. As originally
envisaged by FNEM and the mine owners, exploration was to be supervised by
FNEM and an independent consultant, while a service group operated by Sr.
Killman would carry out the exploration project.  Mine-owner participation in
this work would be limited to providing equipment and labor.
10.       Fabulosa. The tin mine is located at approximately 111 km north
of La Paz. It extends over an area of 25.17 sq km, at elevations of about
4,700 meters. Since 1900, this mine has had seven different owners or
operators. In 1971, its mining rights were acquired by its present owner,
Cooperativa Minera 16 de Octubre. Existing facilities include 101 rooms for
workers, a 60 KW hydro-electric plant and a concentrating plant which is
presently processing 10-15 TPD because of mechanical deterioration of crusher
and concentrating equipment. The application for FNEM financing for explora-
tion was made on June 25, 1977. Preliminary field studies of Stage A were
carried out by FNEM staff from September 19-25, 1977. These studies confirmed
the existence of six mineralized areas extending over 0.46 sq km. The most
promising areas has a vein outcrop, which extends over 800 meters, with
average thickness of one meter and a projected height of 100 meters. Based
on its review of the property as well as availble information on production
in similar areas, FNEM estimates that there may be ore reserves of 280,000
tons, with an average grade of 0.8% tin, which could be processed with a
recovery of 60%. Accordngly, FNEM has decided to finance additional explora-
tion under Stage B.
11.       As presently envisaged by FNEM and the mine owners, the first step
would be the rehabilitation of the concentrating plant at a cost of US$30,000.
This step, entailing relatively simple changes and overhauling of crushing and
concentratng equipment, will increase plant production up to 70-100 TPD,
thereby permitting the production of processing ores when starting exploration
in the already exposed veins. Another component which also needs immediate
rehabilitation, estimated to cost about US$50,000, is the power plant. If
possible, its financing should be arranged through an industrial loan since
it is clearly a component unrelated to exploration. FNEM' s exploration work



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
planned for Stage B, to be carried out at a cost of US$130,000 between mid-
1979 and May 1980, would comprise: (i) surface and underground surveying,
geological mapDing and sampling; (ii) metallurgical testing; and (iii) prep-
aration of a p-aliminary mining study. If Stage B is successful, it would be
followed by additional exploration not yet defined in detail but estimated to
include 1,000 meters of tunnelling, 1,500 meters of drifts to follow promising
veins and 500 meters of raises to confirm vertical continuity of veins and
provide ventilation and access. This latter exploration to increase plant
production to about 150 TPD would cost approximately US$725,000, including
preparation of feasibility studies, and would extend between mid-1980 and
mid-1982. Arrangements for execution of exploration work have not yet been
prepared. It is envisaged, however, that they will include some equipment to
be supnlied byv the nine ovners.
12.       Kala Uyo.  This medium-size mine is located at approximately 20 km
north of La Paz, at elevations ranging from 4,400 to 4,600 meters. Mined
since the early 1900's, it has been owned by Compania Minera Estano Aluvial
Sociedad Anonima since July 1977.  Currently, the owners are engaged in an
exploration project to establish and prove ore reserves in a mineralized bed
dipping 30%, which outcrops over a lesngth of 1,200 meters with an average
thickness of 4.0 meters and average grade of 0.44% tin. The application for
FNEM financing for exploration was made in March 1978. The preliminary field
investigations of Stage A were complested by FNEM staff in May 1978. The
results confirmed that these massive, low-grade deposits have potential ore
reserves of about 5,900,000 tons with an average grade of 0.44%, which could
be processed at a rate of 1,000 TPD with a recovery of 60%.
13.       Because of the advanced status of successful exploration, FNEM has
decided to proceed directly from Stage A to Stage C, which should be carried
out at a cost of US$140,000 between mid-1979 and the end of 1980. This
exploration will primarily comprise 1,400 meters of tunnels and drifts and if
successful, would be followed by Stage D, at an estimated cost of US$1,225,000
between May 1981 and October 1983. It will comprise primarily 3,600 meters of
exploration tunnels and drifts, 1,640 meters of access ramps and 110 meters of
vertical raises for ventilation and access. Project execution arrangements
will include use of labor and equipment from the mine owner, and possibly
individual consultants as required by the present project team.
14.       Vilipaliga.  This anthracite deposit outcrops at approximately 230 km
NW of La Paz, albngside Lake Titicaca in the northern end of the Copacabana
peninsula. It is comprised of 1-3 beds which dip toward the lake at 45
degrees from the horizontal. These beds extend over 13 km, with thicknesses
ranging between 0.15-5.30 meters. Ihe anthracite is mixed with 35%-55% of
lutites and other waste materials and contain from 0.38%-1.30% sulphur.
These deposits have been known for over 100 years and appear to have been
mined occasionally for local use. The Vilipaliga property extends in length
over 5.5 km, with potential reserves of 2.5 million tons above the level of
the lake. An adjacent property extends over the remaining 7.5 km, holding
potential reserves estimated 8.8 million tons. The application for FNEM



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
financing for exploration was made on January 25, 1978. Preliminary field
studies under Stage A were carried out by FNEM staff from April 11-15, 1978.
Based on the positive, preliminary field observations, FNEM has decided to
proceed to financing Stage B exploration.
15.       As presently planned, Stage B will comprise metallurgical testing
of available samples at a cost of US$18,000 and exploration through trenches
at a cost of US$139,000, to be carried out between mid-1980 and April 1981.
If sucessful, these investigations will be followed by Stage C, which is
envisaged to cost about US$1.7 million for implementation between mid-1981
and mid-1985. Subsequently, Stage D would be carried out between mid-1985
and mid-1988 at a cost of US$1.6 million. FNEM's present evaluations of
the economic attractiveness of potential anthracite production are somewhat
optimistic, considering the scarcity of reliable information, the very small
amount of outcrops sufficiently thick for mining, the strong dipping of the
beds and the uncertainty of anthracite quality. Further metallurgical testing
and trenching, however, would provide additional data, at a reasonable cost,
on which a decision on continuation of exploration could be based.
16.       Argue.  This alluvial tin deposit has never been mined.  It is
located approximately 346 km SE of La Paz and extends over an area of 6.71 sq
km, situated at elevations of 2,700-2,800 meters. It is owned by a group
headed by Sr. H. Gebhardt. The application for FNEM financing was made on June
19, 1977. Preliminary studies under Stage A were made from May 9-11, 1978, by
FNEM staff, with assistance from Mr. E. Malstrom, a consultant from CPD. These
investigations indicated the existence of 70-120 million tons of alluvial
deposits which could possibly be dredged at a rate of 10 million TPY, located
in a valley with bedrock dipping at about 45 degrees. The depth of the
deposits is estimated to range from 30-70 meters. No information exists
concerning the grade of the deposits. It is estimated, however, that they
should contain at least 0.7 lb of tin per cubic meter of ore to make Arque
an economically feasible mining project.
17.       To establish the existence of acceptable mineralization, FNEM has
decided to finance the drilling of 4 vertical test holes of 120 meters each
under Stage B exploration. This work, including consulting services, labora-
tory tests and evaluation, would cost US$26,000 and would be carried out
in the second quarter of 1979. If successful, these studies will be followed
by Stage C exploration between September 1979 and March 1981, at a cost of
US$424,000. This stage would comprise about 36 drill holes, as well as
consulting servics, laboratory tests and preparation of a feasibility study.
However, no contracts have yet been signed with the owners.
18.       Recuperacion.  This alluvial tin deposit is located about 325 km SE
of La Paz. It extends over 7.5 sq km, situated at elevations ranging from
3,900-4,200 meters. The application for FNEM financing for exploration was
made by its owner, Sra. N. Ruiz, on June 30, 1977. Preliminary field studies
under Stage A were subsequently made between August 10-17, 1977, and May 1-3,
1978, by FNEM staff, with assistance from Mr. Malstrom.  These studies con-
firmed that: (i) this deposit might contain up to 30 million tons of alluvial
reserves; (ii) very little is known on mineralization at deeper elevations,



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
(iii) water for processing is scarce; and (iv) this deposit does not appear
suitable for dredging. However, given the large volume of alluvial material,
FNEM has decided to proceed with financing additional exploration under Stage
B to improve existing information on the extent of the reserves and their
mineralization. Stage B will be undertaken from April-June, 1979, at a cost
of US$26,000. It will comprise 4 drill holes of 120 meters each, consulting
services and laboratory tests. A contract to execute this exploration has
already been signed with the owner, J. Soria and CPD to assist and supervise
this exploration work. No plans have yet been made for additional exploration
of the project.
19.       Avaroa-Sud America.  This gold prospect of glacial origins is
located approximately 325 km NW of La Paz. It extends over an area of about
2.7 sq km, situated at elevations of 4,500 meters along the bed of the Suches
River. It is presently owned by Empresa Minera Bernal. Mining activities are
of an artesanal nature. The application for FNEM financing for exploration
was made on January 25, 1978. Preliminary field studies under Stage A were
made from May 14-15, 1978, by FNEM staff with assistance from Mr. Malstrom.
These studies indicated the existence of potential reserves of 60 million
tons, with mineralized depths ranging from 3-30 meters. However, it was con-
cluded that at least 2 pits with a depth of 10 meters would be required to
establish reasonable preliminary estimates for ore grades. This additional
work will be financed by FNEM under 'Stage B, to be carried out from April-
June 1979, at a cost of US$9,000.  Necessary contracts have already been
signed with the owners, J. Soria and CPD to assist and supervise the explora-
tion works. No plans have yet been made for additional exploration of this
prospect.
20.       Sorpresa II.  This alluvial gold prospect is located at about
200 km NW of La Paz. It extends for an area of about 50 sq km alongside
the bed of Suches River. This property is also owned by Empresa Minera
La Sorpresa and has not been previously mined. The application for FNEM
financing for exploration were made on August 19, 1977. Preliminary field
studies under Stage A were made from May 16-17, 1978, by FNEM staff with
assistance from Mr. Malstrom. The results of this field study are still
very general in view of the lack of :information on sub-surface mineraliza-
tion. Accordingly, FNEM has decided to proceed with financing additional
exploration under Stage B, to be carried out from April-June, 1979. At
a cost of US$14,000, this exploration will consist of 2 vertical drill holes
of 25 meters each which will provide a better base for establishing poten-
tial reserves and ore grades. Contracts for its execution have been signed
with the owners, J. Soria and CPD to assist and supervise the exploration
works. No plans have yet been made by FNEM for additional exploration of this
project.
21.       Animas.  This lead/silver/zinc deposit is located at approximately
927 km south of La Paz at an elevation of 4,000 meters. It is owned by the
Litoral cooperative. The application for FNEM financing was made on July 12,
1977. Preliminary field studies of Stage A were carried out by FNEM staff
from December 11-16, 1977, and July 20-22, 1978.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 8
22.       Based on the successful results from Stage A investigations, FNEM
has determined that the Animas deposit may have reserves of 3,000,000 tons,
with average grades of 1.1% lead, 2.2% zinc and 0.01% silver, that could be
mined with a recovery of 75% for lead and silver and 80% for zinc. FNEM has
recently started financing further exploration, under Stage B, to be completed
by the end of 1979 at a cost of US$58,000, to confirm the potential of the
deposits and to establish whether they could be economically mined using
either an open pit or an underground caving method. Estimates for production
rates are still under discussion.
23.       Acero Marca.  This wolfram deposit is located at approximately 70 km
NE of La Paz at an elevation of 4,000 meters. It is owned by the COMSUR Mining
Company. The application for FNEM financing was made in May 10, 1978. Pre-
liminary field studies of Stage A were carried out by FNEM staff from August
21-24, 1978, establishing the existence of wolfram vein mineralization over
a length of 700 meters, with an average thickness of 0.2 meters, over a height
of about 400 meters.
24.       Based on the results from Stage A, FNEM plans to finance further
exploration to be undertaken from mid-1980 to mid-1981, at a cost of US$271,000
to confirm the existence of about one million tons of ore reserves, with
average grade of 0.5% WO3, which FNEM staff estimate can be processed with
a recovery of 70%. Discussions on possible production rates are not yet
finalized.
25.       Ensueno.  This wolfram deposit is located approximately 145 km
NE of La Paz at an elevation of 3,000 meters. It is owned jointly by Sres.
Delgado and E. Lederman. The application for FNEM financing was made on
October 26, 1978. Preliminary field studies of Stage A were carried out
by FNEM staff from November 8-15, 1978, establishing the existence of ten
mineralized-vein geological structures with an average thickness of 0.4
meters, extending vertically about 50 meters, located in an area of 900 by
300 meters.
26.       Based on the results from Stage A, FNEM plans to finance further
exploration to be undertaken from mid-1979 to mid-1981 at a cost of
US$580,000 to confirm the existence of over one million tons of wolfram
ores, with an average grade of 1.0% WO3, which FNEM staff estimate could be
mined by underground cut-fill methods. Possible rates of production and the
processing recoveries have not yet been estimated pending the development
of additional surface geology information, which owing to dense vegetation is
still very limited and insufficient.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



.- 71 -                         ANNEX  5
BOLIVIA-- NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
DETAILED EQUI'MENT REQUIREMENTS
Cost
(US$)
A. Equipment Required by the 1Vund's Staff
4 pick-up trucks                                        60,000
2 light drills                                         125,800
camping equipment                                     37,500
1 mini-computer                                         25,000
Sub-total                      248,300
B.  Yeavy-duty Exploration Fquipment
1 jumbo drill                                           80,000
6 pneumatic loaders                                     95,500
3 underground locomotives                               60,000
23 iackleg and stoper drills                             34,500
4 compressors                                          168,000
40 mine wagons                                           40,000
200 electric mine lamps                                   25,000
4 water pumps                                           16,000
6 fans                                                   6,000
4 drill sharpeners                                       4,800
Sub-total                      529,800
C. Consummable Supplies
7,640 meters of rail                                       229,200
8,700 meters of air pipe                                    81,363
8,450 meters of water Dipe-                                 25,460
1,500 connectors for air pipe                               10,369
86 valves for air pipes                                   4,889
143 reductors, elbows and connectors
for air pipes                                          2,044
1,455 connectors for water pipe                               5,556
130 reductors, elbows and connectors
for water Pipes                                          730
47 valves for water pipes                                 1,371
3,200 meters of hose                                        15,356
1,195 drill rods                                            50,123
300 meters of copper cable                                 5,000
3,550 meters of 16-inch air conducts                        22,002
Sub-total                      453,463
GRAND TOTAL                  1,231,563
Industrial Projects Department
June 197'1



BOLIVIA - NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
CAPITAL COST BREAKDOWN
1979-82 Expenditures
(US$ 000)
Base Cost                                             Price Contingency
Foreign    Local    Total       Physical Contingency        Foreign    Local    Total         Total
1.  Equipment
Mini-computer                           25.0       -         25.0                -                   1.9        -         1.9        26.9
Camping Equipment                       37.5       -         37.5                -                   5.7        -         5.7        43.2
Light Drills                           125.8        -       125.8                 -                  9.4        -         9.4       135.2
Expioration Consumables                453.5       -       453.5                 -                  87.4        -        87.4       540.9
Heavy Duty Exploration Equipment    529.8          -        529.8                -                  39.7        -        39.7       569.5
Pick-up Trucks                          60.0       -         60.0                -                   4.5        -         4.5        64.5
Sub-total                        1,231.6        -     1,231.6                 -                148.6         -      148.6    1,380.2
2.  General Survey                          -         696.0    696.0                  -                303.0        -       303.0       999.0
3.  Consultant & Service Contracts
Preliminary Sampling & Studies         188.6      754.4    943.0                94.3                31.3      284.9    316.2    1,353.5
Prefeasibility Studies                 597.0   2,388.0  2,985.0                298.5                89.2      794.8    884.0    4,167.5
Feasibility Studies                    624.1   2,496.6  3,120.7                312.1               169.4   1.604.6  1,774,0    5 206.8
Sub-total                        1,409.7   5,639.0  7,048.7                 704.9              289.9   2,684.3  2,974.2   10,727.8
4.  Technical Assistance                   752.7       -        752.7                                  170.2       -        170.2       922.9
5.  Training                                30.4       -         30.4                -                   5.3       -          5.3        35.7
6.  Administrative Costs
Personal Services                       -       1,089.0  1,089.0                 -                   -        479.0    479.0    1,568.0
Materials and Supplies                  -          80.0      80.0                                    -         33.0      33.0       113.0
Other                                   -         125.0    125.0                 -                   -         57.0      57.0       182,0
Sub-total                            -      1,294.0  1,294.0                  -                   -       569.0    569.0    1,863.0
TOTAL                             3,424.4   7,629.0 11,053.4                704.9               917.0   3,253.3  4.170.3   15,928.6
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979



I                                                                      II
OHOHHOO      010   Hi Hi   .-oLOW.O                    01011  OH  00
C                       HOOHHi        WI CHOHO        WWW   CO  N              WHilI  0  Cl
I OHNM        HiNt IC  Hi            I IbiHII      Hi
H I
OHNN000OHWWNN 0010 0    Hi 0100
OHWW         Hi,W   Hi  0    C,WWILi  OH              WINO   Cl
OH  Hi  Hi   Cl                    0  Li  Hill  Ii  Hi
HOCOHH    0  WNHiW            NNN   Hi  Hi         Hi  Hi  000   0  HO
HO      II   OHiO                            COW       ,OLOSOICH  Hi  I    COlbiIHiI'  Cl  Cl
HiHiHiHiHiHilO    COW         N'HIOH   Hi          0  Hi'HiII
C                        'OHHi    Cl  OHIO  .00        CWCIC,  Hi          OH
00      IIIlooH                          0CHHiC"NOOI              Hi       Cl pLi'CH   00
Hi  01  Hi  Hi   COO                  IllOHIHill  0.  .0
I
Hi                                                       '0
Hi     C              N         Ill Wi  NC                       IHiHi  Hi



I



- 74 -
-90    o0          1001         799          )0913        1984         1985        lOSo~        198/         1980         1989         1990         1 991        1997         19913       18954        1999i         1996        1993
I. 9E119T00
BIL91LKAL 1;120NI:OO                                                                                          100           1209        1 200       120           20           --                                                  --
092                           -            200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -144                                                  217    ~        4        2.0           141           FI1           6           491          991          5611         842         1912         1194         1 152
2 CENTL161  000116
99E160   BAN12 1"82                                          o0
106 900011                                    -           ~            1-
19. 009     099SF    1999o/                                            1         5                                                    '64          927          94          3680         1463          529          465          481          551=         068          242         1017         1134         1152
196006994                         ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~                                           ~~201  2295  698  4Y  00   51           5201         1,48                      999          929          98I2         5994         886          618           630          643          656
98908619  89022130191092                                                                                                     36           91           28           39           49           42           42           42           A3           43           4                           74
91VRAN119N964                                               3 9868S9t                                            1           953          04           55           96           07           58           59           61           62           63           64            666         67            68
F9NN9188H1      Gq  1891                                                                                                                  A 6          0                                      8                         a                                                                9             9
CENT286  9690                                       60    01            0            9           9            00           6            60           60           60           60           60           60           09           48           36           29           12--
106 999029                   -              8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91                  12           13           13            9            3                      ------
SUB-TOTAL          --- ------        ~       ~      ~      ~      70           40           86          49,4         4o1          401,         324          241         309           26248                     211          179          146          114           814
008-70194     944                                                                0        9169         1190         1997         1974         1054         1037         1015          896          965          939           996          877          84669        829 117  074tO5  107  115  96  65  35  6  9  46132
2. 08110919 1198 10991191118            22~~~~~~?    09           91           97         19             24         l20           117          184         151          158          160          175          184          193          2082          212          923          234          246
.1. 11009061 9901 0821 .99 '1990909  121,                              994           109         364          304.         404          304          204          394          304          304          394          304           384          366          304304       30430  304304  34  304304  34  30
4. 10x1.0009100 9911166912
931809 0                                      11           4911          -                                       1          22)52        289          22           157          22           29           227          493          222          989           227          152          2_27         240
910(111 II                                                                        0          240          240        1941           245          297         249         1941           537        1641           245         1041          930          287           249~~~1   10i  ~ Ft  29  ~ 4  101  37  641245101  5Y  8  2
41  1 146                        9          934~~-       424          996          434          142          434          900          597          434          434           906          997          142          434
0110-liiio       179                                                l'1,9       ~~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~     ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~1939  08 9083  214  37  054  98  21 74  1496     2392          908         2)090656                                10829
TECIIN41 1111 4I                                   2                                                                            -2           83           149          451          790         529           348          1-4          149          283           6,03         6`5          149          174
1, 406~~~~~ 091111 2900 12111131111 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~    ~ ~ 311
16 D,61,,I-                                                                                                                         --                                                                                          4           20K11 240                               2480
I.. 199111                                                                        548          516          249          54o          946          990          540          046          940           546          546           546          940          946~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,  56  46  4,54 ~ 54
12    3401         351          307      49               1224         2977         3544         4563         32091        469          37            99            49           2876         3199
11'611,1, Il 1111021 111, 1-ill 711>11  11          2          ' I                         /         978         -092         -260           407       -1504        -2960        -4098        -12191       -4140          29994098  -319  -4-4204 04 3038        -184242      -0967
1.110111 Ill    11<  <II III-   1-1.111-'   I                      '.2        1'2)        '111,         /0~~~~~~~~~6  -9003      -2240        -4286        -7979       -01822-19041               10180       -22999        -2630319     -29381       -210/23      -33190223  n19
1'M1f 21979 I 1ll      I4






75 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
BOLIVIA: NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND
ASSUtIPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Financial Projections
1.        The financial projections are based on an Operations Program of
exploration work to be financed by FNEM and to be executed in part by FNEM
over a 20-year period. Projections are in nominal terms or current prices
up to 1982, and real terms thereafter. The financial projections are deno-
minated in US$ because Government funding-level commitments to FNEM and
FNEM's work program are expressed in US$. The projections assume an inter-
national inflation rate of 7.5% in 1979 and 7% p.a. until 1982 for foreign
expenditures and 15% p.a. from 1979-82 for local currency expenditures. The
rate of return calculations are based on the projections in 1978 real terms.
2.        Operations Program.  The Operations Program has been developed
on the following major assumptions:
(i) the probability of an exploration project resulting
in increased ore production, i.e., a successful exploration
project, is 1:30 over the projection period;
(ii) the annual schedule of exploration projects, based on
FNEM's financing of exploration in 4 consecutive stages
(Stage A--general survey; Stage B--preliminary sampling
and studies; Stage C--detailed reserve evaluation; and
Stage D--feasibility study) is 40 Stage A projects,
6 Stage B projects, 2 Stage C projects and 1-2 Stage D
projects;
(iii) mines to be financed will be in 4 size ranges of
gross mine output and will carry standardized costs; and
(iv) FNEM will finance 100% of the exploration costs of the mines
with a total potential mine output of up to 2,500 TPD, and
up to 50% of the exploration costs of the mines with potential
output from 500-1,000 TPD.
Exploration costs for the 4 size ranges of mines are shown below. The costs
are for tin mines that are assumed to account for about 90% of the work of the
Fund. Exploration costs have been derived from cost estimates made for the
14 identified projects that have passed through Stage A and remain promising,
those estimates having been reviewed in light of revisions of FNEM feasibility
study cost estimates made by the Association in May 1978, updated in September
1978 and in January 1979, and reviewed in May 1979.



- 76 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
Estimated Exploration Costs
(US$ thousands - 1978 Terms)
Gross Mine Output   Stage A   Stage B   Stage C   Stage D           Total
50 -  125              5         25        150         470         650
125 -  250              5         50        370         580       1,005
250 -  500              5         85        770         660       1,520
500 - 1,000             5        100      1,023         835       1,963
3.         At the outset of the projection period (1979-82), the Operations
Program incorporates 14 promising projects. In September 1978, 18 projects
had successfully completed Stage A and were recommended for Stage B explora-
tion. Since then, 7 of the 18 projects have been deleted because of insuf-
ficient geological potential, low mineral prices (for antimony) and lack of
owner interest, and 3 new projects surveyed during the last 5 months have
been added. The work program assumes continuation through Stages B-D for
the remaining 14 projects; it also assumes that review of mining applications
will lead to the execution of 40 new Stage A investigations per year which
will lead, in turn, to 11 Stage B projects not yet identified. The probabil-
ity of successful exploration work and commercial exploitation is assumed to
be about 1:30. The schedule of exploration projects during the Project period
is shown below.
Stage                1979      1980     1981      1982
A                  40        40        40        40
B                   8         5         6         6
C                   5         3         -
D                    -         1         2         2
4.         Alternative pessimistic assumptions have also been made.  Rather
than assuming probabilities of success at 1:30, the assumed probabilities of
success are 1:60.
5.        Revenues.  FNEM revenues are the royalty and interest payments to
be made by those mining companies that have had exploration projects financed
by FNEM resulting in identification of new ore reserves and in commercial
exploitation of those reserves. The projections assume a royalty payment of
8% of the gross value of total mine production from each exploration invest-
ment which generates commercial production of ore. Repayment of 2 times the
cost of exploration (Stages A-D) to FNEM is assumed, plus an interest charge
of 10% on the outstanding balance of the FNEM investment. The interest charge
is effective upon completion of the feasibility study indicating proven re-
serves that are commercially exploitable, but payment of interest is deferred
until production from the newly explored deposit commences, which is assumed
to be 2 years.



7 77 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
6.         Since the majority of the exploration work is expected to be for
tin, the projected royalty payments i-or probable discoveries are based on
the 1978 London Metal Exchange (LME) price of grade tin. Royalty payments
are not expected to begin until 1982 at the earliest. The following prices
in constant 1982 US$ have been used:
Projected Tin Prices
(US$/lb)
Current                1982 Constant
1982                          6.72                     6.72
1983                          7.12                     6.72
1984                          7.55                     6.72
1985                          8.22                     6.91
1990                         10.71                     7.04
Source:   IBRD Report No. 814/78, June 1978, updated following an
Annual Review, April 26, 1979.
7.        In the optimistic projections, the build up in revenues is based
on the assumed completion of exploration work and commercial exploitation
of newly identified ore from one project in 1982, 3 projects in 1983, 3 in
1984, and one project per year thereafter. In the pessimistic analysis the
build-up is slower with one project expected to generate revenues in 1983,
3 in 1984, but none in 1985. Thereafter only one new project is assumed to
generate royalty payments every other year.
8.        Other Costs.  The general expenses of the Fund include personnel
services, material and supplies and other overhead expenses that cannot be
allocated to exploration activities. Overhead costs include rent, utilities,
maintenance and insurance. In additon to general inflationary increases,
general expenses are increased at 20/ p.a.
9.        The Fund's prospection promotion activities include the expenses
of the Prospection Division in preparing promotional profiles of territories
available for prospection. The 19791 expenses are estimated at US$20,000 and
in the projections are assumed to increase in real terms by 5% p.a. throughout
the projection period.
10.       Technical assistance and t:raining are assumed during the Project
period (1979-82) to include 100 man--months of short-term consultants provided
by a firm at a cost of US$7,500 per man-month, or US$90,000 per man-year, plus
transportation. The costs are comparable to costs for similar expertise sup-
plied by international consulting firms. In addition, technical assistance
costs include US$25,000 for 6 man-weeks of assistance in establishing a finan-
cial reporting and monitoring system. Training includes a 4-week seminar given



7e _
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
by a foreign expert in La Paz and 3 man-months of overseas training. The
costs are based on US university estimates, including per diem and travel
expenses, of teaching in Bolivia, and on 1978 costs of specialized interna-
tional seminars, including per diem and travel expenses.
11.       Working capital requirements are assumed to be minimal, consisting
of unexpended travel advances to FNEM staff for Stage A mine visits, 15 days
of contract costs and cash requirements of 30 days' administrative costs.
12.       Depreciation included in exploration investment costs for repayment
purposes has been assumed according to linear methods for all fixed assets
according to technical life. FNEM practices follow conventional depreciation
accounting practices. Depreciation charges have been built into exploration
costs to determine contingent credits to ensure availability of funds for
replacements; but, they have been excluded from exploration costs in the
projections of FNEM's sources and requirements of its operating budget since
the projections are on a cash basis. The following depreciation rates have
been assumed:
Number of Years
Vehicles                               5
Camping Equipment                      2
Communications Department              5
Drilling Equipment                     7
Office Equipment                       5
Heavy-Duty Exploration Equipment       5
Building                              20
13.       Fixed assets have been increased in 1979 and 1980 by the purchase
of one underground light drill and one surface drill, camping equipment,
4 pick-up trucks, a mini-computer, heavy-duty exploration equipment and
replacements at regular intervals thereafter. Exploration consumables are
assumed to be purchased every year. Costs were estimated from supplier
quotes in September 1978 for the mini-computer and two drills and from sup-
plier quotes in December 1978 for the heavy-duty exploration equipment and
consumables.
14.       No taxes have been calculated for the projections since FNEM is
tax-exempt.
B.   Financial Rate of Returns
15.       The internal financial rate of return calculations are based on
optimistic and pessimistic projections of royalty payments received by FNEM
as given in paras. 5-7 above, on the 1979-82 Operations Program and a US$2.2
million per annum Operations Program thereafter. The revenues and costs are



79 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
in 1978 terms including real increases as projected and shown in paras. 6
and 8 but excluding general inflationary increases. FNEM costs include
exploration costs, administrative and other costs assumed in the financial
projections. Financial charges and depreciation are excluded. Two analyses
have been made, one based on optimistic assumptions regarding royalty payments
to FNEM, and the other on pessimistic assumptions. Exploration and operat-
ing costs of FNEM have been assumed to be the same in both cases. Since
royalty payments would be generated for at least an additional 7 years from
exploration costs incurred over a 20-year period, the revenue stream has been
assumed over a 27-year period, and the capital (exploration) and operating
(administrative, fixed asset replacement, working capital) streams over a
20-year period.
C.   Economic Rate of Return
16.       The economic analysis focuses on the total economic impact of
FNEM's activities assumed in the financial analysis over a 20-year period.
As a result, the revenue and cost streams differ from those in the finan-
cial analysis as follows:
(i) Revenues. The revenue stream comprises the total
incremental revenues generated from deposits identi-
fied through the FNEM exploration work, rather
than the 8% royalty payments to FNEM as in the finan-
cial analysis.  Since royalty payments had been esti-
mated by FNEM on the bas.is of total mining production,
incremental production due to FNEM exploration is
estimated at 100% of mining production for small-size
mines, 75% in the middle--size range and 60% in the
large-size range. Revenues were assumed to build up
under optimistic and pessimistic assumptions used in
the financial projections; and
(ii)   Costs.  Exploration costs and operating costs of
FNEM are assumed to be the same as in the financial
analysis. In addition, however, the costs of devel-
oping and exploiting FNEM-discovered deposits are
included to reflect the full economic cost of incre-
mental revenues generated by increased ore production
due to FNEM exploration.
17.       A model was developed of the costs of exploitation and mining of
deposits identified by FNEM in the 4 size ranges assumed for the projec-
tions. Mining costs have been calculated on the basis of an estimated US$30
equivalent per metric ton of ore fed to the concentrator, freight charges at
US$120 equivalent per metric ton of concentrates and smelting charges at
US$600 equivalent per ton of concentrates. Estimated mine-development costs
for the 4 size ranges of mines are shown below. The costs were developed
with the assistance of FNEM and reviewed with international mining consultants
with experience in Bolivia.



- 80 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
Bolivia--Estimated Mine Development Costs -
(US$ Thousands--1978 Terms)
Gross Mine Output  Mine Investment        Mining Costs       Freight      Smelting
50 -   125         300 - 1,650          315 -   800      15 -  38    50 -  185
125 -   250       1,150 - 3,500          800 - 1,600      38 -  75   125 -  380
250 -   500       2,200 - 4,600        1,600 - 3,200       75 - 150   250 -  760
500 - 1,000       3,500 - 6,300        3,200 - 6,100    135 - 150   600 - 1,500
/a   Minimum/maximum cost ranges.
18.       For the purposes of economic analysis, a shadow price exchange
rate of 1.25 has been assumed to compensate for foreign trade distortions
due to export taxes and currency disequilibrium. Since all revenues are
assumed to be based on sales abroad, 100% of revenues have been shadow
priced. It is further assumed for shadow pricing purposes that 20% of the
exploration cost expenditures, 75% of the mine investment costs and 100% of
smelting and freight charges would be foreign exchange. Operating costs
are assumed to be 100% local costs.
19.       The economic analysis, like the financial analysis, has been made
on the basis of optimistic and pessimistic assumptions regarding probabili-
ties of discovery and commercial development.
D.   Foreign Exchange Benefits
20.       The foreign exchange benefits are based on the foreign exchange
earnings that would be generated by the export of new mining production from
FNEM-explored deposits, under the same pessimistic and optimistic assumptions
made for the financial projections. All new ore production is assumed to be
exported.
21.       Twenty percent of exploration costs, 75% of mine development and
exploitation costs are assumed to be foreign exchange. It is assumed that
no foreign credits are available to finance mine development. Fixed asset
costs and technical assistance costs are assumed to be 100% foreign exchange.
E.   Fiscal Benefits
22.       The fiscal benefits to be received by the Government are based on
Government tax receipts on the revenue from incremental production of ore due
to FNEM exploration and subsequent exploitation. Government taxes include (i)
a regalia, or tax, which in the case of tin amounts to about 38% of presumed



-- 81 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
income from gross sales revenue; (ii) an export tax which amounts to 7.5% of
gross sales revenue; and (iii) a tax of 1.1% of gross sales revenue for mining
research by the Instituto de Investigaciones Minero Metalurgicos (IIMM).
23.       The users of FNEM have been granted a tax exemption of up to 607
of royalties owed to FNEM in the case of successful discoveries. Such exemp-
tion is assumed in the calculation of Government fiscal benefits arising from
FNEM activities and is deducted from Government taxes. Fiscal benefits are
calculated under optimistic as well as pessimistic assumptions regarding
probabilities of successful discovery of ore and exploitation.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1979






a~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,, R D -     2'AU 1 -319-0
170-                                                                                                                    1,AG,,    97
0   0 ;=  0    :   T: - -  . [         R      : :       -    :  ;:    :    -    ; 0i; IJAI*:   0 3   -    O  l   MDA i VIMI A
\0 COB A                                                                                                                        Qt I0 t       -    :. NTERNAT L RYINING  O R VFUND    PR OJEC T
_  \  >    p         ?            H          (       ,  ~~~~          ~      ~~-   -;  C )O4Zp, TIEE)   0\000 ;00          SOUTH AMBERCAI 4 LACERS tGOLD)
.  9f  s.IS,t fTBNI                           (   COMRA IA MINTRA DEL SUR S A. 1 TIN )
\  ,/   s    f                      \)      <.'~~~~~~~ '     MIRR  MMW Tt^tZt12,N1   . ;    ALTiPLANO
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BWH SIE)                                                                   6; %A   -  tt  ()pr \At4E E VaLaY
r  :   <                    fl              83                            \                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- OBOABIMENT BOONDAkiFS
COB                                                                                      (it+~                          Cl - INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
t   Nt  B  aD C)                     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WWAD t_fa Tujs                             (f. SOUTH AMRIA  PLAER 1GOO   D
'ftB4 Sf    OT    ITT    50 I                                                                                                     S A
I Z                               IANJ
L   A       gZ           \             .          vs,)  l                        S   \   A        N                       RAT AAY
TEN DAD                                                                     BOUNDAR i
L.IKILOMR S ,                                                                                                                                                              '
LA PAZ                                                                  S    A            N    T   A
0  : .\  - . 0 R O cArAAit   ,  A90 ,;Hf/c    R    U    Z                                                                                 <                             t1
a~~~~~~~~~~~                        T,~.=, _ ,;  ,
->               TO~~~~~~-                   -f    IIkBH   I
SAA  FAN   UI'CHABA(M1oyc
CArAVi                           c         R                  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SeiSeWl
-j  C,    -         -                                   pMeSe
U  U N I~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                               Oee. r S        o
ui  S A L T P A                                 AGE T  14A1 NII



