Document of              FILE COPY
The World Bank                           COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2591 -BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
June 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivian Peso ($b)
US$1 = $b. 20.00
$b. 1 = US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COMIBOL   -     Bolivian Mining Corporation
(Corporacion Minera de Bolivia)
GTZ       -     Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
BRGM      -     Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:              The National Mineral Exploration Fund
Amount:                   US$7.5 million
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the
Furnd at 6.5% and 20 years, including 5 years of
grace. Interest payments by the Fund to the Govern-
menit would be limited to 2.5% during the grace
period. The difference between 6.5% and 2.5% would
be accumulated and repaid in equal installments,
without interest, during the amortization period.
Project Description:      The objective of the project is to assist the
Funad to develop into an efficient mineral explora-
tion financing institution which would foster
miineral exploration in Bolivia and thus facilitate
(i) the expansion of mineral production and exports
and (ii) reductions in mining costs. The project
would comprise the Fund's 1979-82 operations program,
and technical assistance to the Fund. The credit
would finance the services of consultants and contrac-
tors, and the acquisition of equipment. The major
risk faced by the project is that not sufficient
demand for Fund financing would develop, or that
the deposits identified might not be expeditiously
developed, because financial return may not be
perceived as adequate by the mine owners at the time.
Therefore, the success of the project will depend
heavily on the Government taking the necessary
measures to encourage investment in the sector.
AnLother risk is that the Fund's management is
untested in the contracting and evaluation of
exploration work. Technical assistance to be
provided under the project and under bilateral
German financing is expected to strengthen the
Fund.
This document has a restricted dis,tribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Equipment                           -      1.23      1.23
General Survey Costs             0.70         -      0.70
Consulting and Service
Contracts                      5.64      1.41     7.05
Technical Assistance and
Training                          -      0.78     0.78
Administrative Costs             1.29         -      1.29
Base Cost Estimate             7.63      3.42    11.05
Contingencies
Physical                       0.56      0.14     0.70
Price                          3.25      0.92     4.17
Total Cost                      11.44      4.48    15.92
Financing Plan:
Equity                        US$ million             %
Government Contribution          4.30                26
Bilateral Assistance
Gesellschaft fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit (Germany)       3.80               23
Bureau de Recherches
Geologiques et Minieres
(France)                       0.50                3
Sub-total                      8.6                52
Loans
Government
from Central Bank           0.40                2
from IDA credit             7.50               46
Sub-total                7.90                48
16.50 1/           100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                               US$ Millions
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual                       1.2      1.6     2.8      1.9
Cumulative                   1.2     2.8      5.6      7.5
Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return is expected to range from
18-25%.
1/   I;cludcs the finai.cing of iT t rest during project execution, amounting to
USSO.53 million equivaleeat.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR
A NATIONAL MINERAL EXPLORATION FUND PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$7.5 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the 1979-82 operations program of Bolivia's
National Mineral Exploration Fund and technical assistance to the Fund. The
proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Fund for 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 6.5% per annum. The project will also be
financed by the Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit, of Germany, and
by the Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres, of France, for a total
of US$4.3 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction-
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (No. 2195-BO),
dated November 3, 1978, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Economic
missions have visited Bolivia in October 1978 and March 1979 to review current
developments and discuss policy measures with the Government. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of natural gas exports, as well as
significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the poorest countries in
South America. The majority of its population is engaged in traditional
agriculture:; only a small part of the labor force is employed in the modern
sector. The economic infrastructure is still primitive and the road and rail
networks reach only a fraction of the country. Most of the population live in
the inhospitable 3,000 to 4,000 m high plateau, the Altiplano, where physical
conditions are harsh.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations, dis-
tributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility, notably
through an impressive effort in primary education. The agrarian reform and
the nationa:Lization of large mines, however, were followed by falling produc-
tion.  GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its pre-1952 level
until 1961.  During the subsequent decade, output increased steadily at an
average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita income increases
averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had fallen by 24% in
the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970 and was more equally
distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth was again lost in
1969/71, when political instability led to declining private investment and
deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public finances reflected
a structura1 problem in the economy. Bolivia's public sector is proportionately



one of the largest in Soutlh America and a source of livelihood for a sizeable
segment of the population. With scarce employment opportunities in the
private sector, pressures to expand public employment proved difficult to
resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined with a weak tax
system, have limited the resources available for public investment. Moreover,
the inability of the public sector to generate adequate savings limited its
capacity to utilize available external capital assistance effectively.
5.        From mid-1971 to mid-1978, political stability and the Government's
encouragement of private sector investment raised hopes for a more rapid pace
of economic development. In addition, during the early 1970s Bolivia's
exports of petroleum increased considerably, and it was generally expected
that this upward trend would continue in the future. Public investment and
external lending decisions were largely based on this expectation which seemed
reasonable at the time. The Government launched an ambitious public investment
program financed largely through external borrowing, expecting to have no
difficulty servicing the loans out of future petroleum revenues. Petroleum
exports began to decline, however, in 1975, because of insufficient output in
the face of rapidly rising internal demand. Through 1976 this decline was
largely offset by increased exports of natural gas to Argentina, but in 1977
petroleum exports dropped to a point where current earnings from all hydro-
carbon exports declined. At the end of 1978 petroleum exports came to a
virtual halt. As a result, Bolivia has become even more dependent on exports
of minerals, mainly of tin.
6.         Since most of the ongoing public investment projects were initiated
when petroleum prospects seemed favorable, they cannot now be stopped without
economic loss. The Government has therefore tried to make up the export
shortfall through additional external borrowing. As a consequence, Bolivia's
public debt outstanding and disbursed increased rapidly; the end-1978 estimate
is US$1.8 billion. As a result of increased borrowing from commercial banks
and suppliers, the structure of the external debt has worsened; the grant
element of new loans fell from 40% in 1974 to 16% in 1978.
Recent Economic Performance and Prospects
7.        The Bolivian economy is going through a very difficult phase.  The
overall public deficit has increased from about 1% of GDP in 1974 to 11-12% in
1978. The current account deficit of the balance of payments has widened from
5.3% of GDP in 1974 to 8.4% in 1978. 1/ During the last two years, the rate
of GDP growth has been declining and the rate of inflation has been acceler-
ating. According to the La Paz consumer price index (the only official price
index in Bolivia), prices increased by 10% in 1978; estimates made by the
Central Bank indicate an inflation rate of about 19% in that year. Indications
are that the rate of inflation has been increasing further in 1979. The new
Government is expected to take measures in order to bring the rate of inflation
down to an average of about 15% over the next years, the same as the average
during 1970-1977.
1/   These figures are but orders of magnitude because the statistics on
"Ahich Jney are b;se  *,ffer fron considerable error, but they are
indi'oative of a -erioiF deterioration.



8.        The service on external debt now absorbs about 30% of exports of
goods and services.  This ratio cannot be expected to improve during the next
few years and will probably fluctuate around 35%, an undesirable figure for a
country so dependent on a s:ingle export, tin, which is characterized by wide
fluctuation in demand. The country's balance-of-payments prospects are not
encouragingy for the immediate future. The volume of mineral exports has been
stagnating and even with production-stimulating changes in mining taxes no
sharp increase in volume is to be expected during 1979 and 1980. However,
a more favorable environment for private mining enterprises, modernization
investment in the Bolivian M4ining Corporation, and greater exploration efforts
could bring about substantial increases in output and exports in the medium
term. Non-traditional exports account for a small share of all exports and
while encoulragement is also required in this area, favorable effects will only
affect exports significantly in the longer term.
9.         Bolivia's most promising export potential lies in natural gas.
Exports to Argentina are expected to increase as additional pumps begin to
operate on the pipeline dur:ing 1979. The construction of a natural gas pipe-
line to Brazil could improve Bolivia's balance-of-payments position substan-
tially. A letter of intent has been signed by the Bolivian and Brazilian
Governments, laying down the principles regarding the pipeline. While further
studies are required to prove the existence of sufficient gas reserves, once
this is done the way would be open for an increase in total exports in the
order of 2.-30% in the mid-1]980s. The petroleum situation is less clear;
exports cannot be expected to resume on a substantial scale before additional
reserves are confirmed.
10.       In sum, while Bolivia's medium-term export prospects are moderately
favorable if efforts are macle to promote them, it is difficult to see much
scope for improvement during the next two to three years.  The vagaries of
international mineral prices will continue to have a decisive effect on the
country's export earnings during that time.
11.       The main internal cause of financial strain is the weak position
of the principal state enterprises.  Foremost among them is the State Petro-
leum Corporation (YPFB), whose finances have been damaged by the Government
policy to rnaintain domestic prices of petroleum products at a fraction of
the world market level.  Since YPFB is also one of the largest taxpayers
in Bolivia, its financial weakness is reflected in Central Government revenue
shortfalls. Other state corporations such as COMIBOL (which owns and operates
the country's major mines) and ENAF (the State Smelting Corporation, which has
embarked oni a large-scale investment effort) have large overall deficits
caused by considerable investment expenditures, low productivity and/or
inappropriate wage policies, rather than depressed prices. The financial
situation of the railroads has deteriorated because of the severe damage
resulting from the recent floods. As noted above, because many of the ongoing
public secltor investments are already well advanced, it is unrealistic to
expect a drastic decline in expenditure in less than two to three years; nor
would such a decline be rational when many projects are expected to show
satisfactory rates of return once they are completed. As on-going investment
projects are gradually completed it should become possible to reduce the
amounts spent and to bring public investment into line with the country's
public sav:ings and export capacity.



- 4 -
12.       A new Government is scheduled to take office in August 1979.  The
present administration considers itself a caretaker; this is the main reason
why some of the remedial actions that the present financial situation requires
have not been taken yet. The administration is fully aware of the seriousness
of the situation and has outlined elements of a stabilization program aimed at
reducing the public deficit, narrowing the balance-of-payments deficit
on current account, and restricting external borrowing. The major measures
contemplated are a much needed increase in the domestic price of petroleum
products and a series of tax and tariff adjustments. For the reasons outlined
and because of the temporary character of the present Government, significant
improvement cannot be expected before late summer at the earliest.
13.       Bolivia's creditworthiness for lending on conventional terms is
limited at present. Priority should be given to projects in the hydrocarbon
sector with a clearly identifiable effect on production for export. Because
of the need to improve Bolivia's debt management--and the reluctance of commer-
cial lenders to increase their exposure in the country--Bolivia will have to
limit its foreign borrowing to priority projects and make maximum use of soft-
term lending from international institutions and bilaterals to get through
the difficult next two or three years. We are following economic developments
very closely and are engaged in a detailed and frank dialogue with the Bolivian
authorities with a view to assisting them during the difficult situation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
14.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not obtain
any Bank Group financing until 1964. Because of Bolivia's restricted capacity
to service external debt, Bank Group financing was, except for a US$23.25
million Gas Pipeline loan, exclusively on IDA terms until Bolivia started to
export small quantities of natural gas and petroleum. In view of promising
prospects for rapid expansion, Bolivia was graduated from IDA in 1975. In
1978, however, it became apparent that the expectations of large petroleum
exports, and with it dynamic economic development, would not materialize.
Starting with the Ulla Ulla rural development project, financed in equal
shares on Bank and IDA terms, Bolivia was made a blend country. Bolivia's
economic situation has deteriorated significantly since then; petroleum
production has declined and the country is expected to become a net importer
in the near future. Development is still seriously constrained by the dual
structure of the economy; a large part of the population continues to live
in extreme poverty. Limited creditworthiness and low per capita income
qualify Bolivia for IDA eligibility. To date, the Bank and IDA have approved
24 operations (11 credits and 13 loans) for Bolivia amounting to US$313.8
million, of which 8 have been fully disbursed.
15.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
infrastructure and social sectors. In the agricultural sector (7 operations
amounting to US$45.2 million), the Bank Group has helped the Government in
the development of a viable livestock Industry, to increase agricultural
production, to improve 1iving conditions on the Altiplano and to promote the
Sevelov-mer-t ,f the a- a(  _>ama industry; efforts to strengthen the Agricultural
B-'Uia hv 'e n'e` w-W  li-r, ted success.  In the power sector, through
:.£-.- -;ions   ou;tr  t- 1-;53.  miLtis.  the Bank Group has been instrumental



- 5 -
in modernizing the sector, expanding electricity supply, improving the quality
of service and setting up a regulatory agency and a public power company,
which has been operated in an efficient and financially sound manner. In the
transportation sector, Bank Group assistance to the railways (3 operations
amounting t:o US$75.0 million of which US$3.3 million were cancelled) has
helped to improve the railways' quality of management, efficiency of operations
and financ:ial condition; a US$23.3 million loan was made for the construction
of a gas p:Lpeline from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina;
a US$25.0 million loan for an aviation development project is assisting
Bolivia's efforts to develop hitherto isolated areas by providing safe and
efficient i-reight and passenger transportation; a US$25.0 million loan for a
highway ma:intenance project is helping Bolivia protect its investments in
highways. In the mining sector, 3 operations amounting to US$28.2 million
have aimed at increased exploration and production and improved sectoral
coordination. A US$11.5 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project,
of which US$6.3 million was cancelled as two cities withdrew from the project,
is improving services in 70 rural communities. A US$15 million loan for an
education and vocational training project is assisting Bolivia to develop its
human resources in a more eiEfective way. A US$17 million loan is helping
Bolivia to improve the living conditions of the urban poor in the city of
La Paz.
16.       liecause of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became active
in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm producing
cables and plastic products.. Two IFC investments since then have contributed
to the establishment of a local market for long-term securities: an equity
participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in conjunc-
tion with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution to assist in
financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises, and US$337,500 in
Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the development of mortgage banking.
Annex II contains a summary statement of the status of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments in Bolivia as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.       3ank Group lending to Bolivia during the recent past has been sup-
portive of a broad based Government effort to expand and upgrade Bolivia's
economic and social infrastructure. Until recently, the Government had
established an excellent record in providing the required local funds; in
general, projects have been adequately carried out. However, the recent
deterioration in the public finances and the balance of payments have made it
necessary to re-examine Bank Group lending objectives. Special efforts will
be made in supporting projects that would help Bolivia to increase exports.
In the longer run, Bank Group volume and composition of lending will depend on
the measures taken by the Government to raise additional revenues, stabilize
the economy and improve the balance of payments.
18.       For the period 1974-77, total official development assistance to
Bolivia has been as follows: Bank, US$192.0 million; IDA, US$13.7 million;
Inter-American Development Bank, US$188.8 million; US Agency for International
Development US$157.5 million; other, US$203.3 million. Net of undisbursed
balances, Bolivia's debt to the Bank and IDA in 1978 represented 7.2% of its
public debt.  Bank and IDA's share of the Bolivian debt service was 3/ in
1977.



- 6 -
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
Characteristics of Bolivia's Mining Sector
19.       For many centuries mining has been a major economic activity in
Bolivia. Over the period 1968-77 mining, excluding hydrocarbons, contri-
buted to about 9% of the gross domestic product and 21% of Government
revenues. Its contribution to foreign exchange earnings declined from 89.6%
in 1970 to 59.5% in 1974 when oil exports peaked; it was 69.3% in 1977.
Over the foreseeable future, mining has the potential of continuing to be a
major source of foreign exchange earnings for the country.
20.       The continuing development of Bolivia's mineral potential, however,
poses serious challenges. Bolivia's ore deposits are mostly confined to
high altitude, mountainous areas of difficult access. Mineralization normally
occurs in narrow veins embedded in hard rock, making extensive tunneling
necessary. Deposits are normally low grade and consist of complex ores which
are difficult to treat. This is particularly true for tin, which constituted
about 66% of Bolivia's total value of mineral exports in 1977. In addition,
practically all of the tin mined outside Bolivia comes from alluvial deposits
which are more economical to mine than Bolivia's vein deposits. These charac-
teristics make mining in Bolivia a relatively high cost operation.
21.       Mining in Bolivia is carried out by the Government-owned Bolivian
Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), by about thirty relatively large privately-owned
mines (known as medium mines) and by about 3000 mostly primitive, small mines
which include many family operations and cooperatives. COMIBOL accounted for
64% of Bolivia's mineral exports in the 1971-76 period, the medium mines for
23% and the small mines for 13%. COMIBOL is saddled with several mines of
dubious profitability which it is unable to scale down because of labor
pressures, or to modernize because of lack of funds. Although technically
competent, COMIBOL suffers from chronic financial crises and a burdensome
administrative set up. The medium mines are generally technically competent
and well managed. They have expanded operations in the past years as a result
of the stable political situation, favorable tin prices and the availability
of credit, but suffer from a taxation system that discourages investment. The
small mines are generally operated under low technical and safety standards
and, with very few exceptions, show little prospect of being upgraded.
22.       Smelting and refining activities are carried out mostly by the
state-owned National Smelting Corporation and COMIBOL. In 1977 about 40%
of Bolivia's tin output, 10% of antimony output and 55% of bismuth output
were refined locally. Planned expansion of the tin refinery will permit to
refine locally about 83% of tin output by 1981. A lead and silver refinery
is under consideration. The Government is intent on progressively increasing
Bolivia's local refining capabilities to cut down transportation costs which,
because of Bolivia's mediteraneity and distance from markets, are substantial,
and to diminish dependence on the few foreign firms able to handle Bolivia's
complex ores.



- 7 -
23.       In spite of geological indications of substantial reserves of tin,
wolfram, zinc, antimony, and bismuth, during the last 8 years mining produc-
tion and the value of mineral exports in constant dollars have barely risen,
mainly because of insufficient investment, particularly in exploration.
Investment. has been directed to the expansion of existing mines and to the
upgrading of ore concentrating facilities. Investment in exploration has not
been sufficient to replace reserves being depleted; production levels have
been maintained through min,ing, particularly by COMIBOL, of lower grade and
more complex ores at higher costs. Such a process cannot be maintained over
the long run. Therefore, unless mining investment in exploration is stepped
up substantially, mining productimn may well decrease over the coming years,
while prodluction costs would continue to rise, threatening Bolivia's competi-
tive posit:ion in the world mineral markets, and affecting its ability to
finaiice 'mpe'-ts qnd service! debt.
24.       Insufficient investment in exploration has been caused by the weak
financial performance of COMIBOL, the reluctance of private investors to
commit funds to slow maturing projects in the mining sector, and, to a lesser
extent, by a paucity of geological data. Because of Government and labor
pressures to increase their share of COMIBOL's profits, COMIBOL has been un-
able to finance adequate exploration programs in its existing mines, and even
less in the extensive and apparently promising mining reserves it has been
assigned. Government attitudes and policies toward private sector investment
in the mining sector have discouraged mining exploration, particularly by
foreign companies, because of the perceived high risk and unattractive
financial return. Political instability and episodes of outright hostility
towards the private sector in the late sixties and early seventies left
their imprint on potential providers of capital, who have shied away from
the high risk and long get1LdL  n piriod of investment in exploration and
concentrated instead on quick-payoff investments in mines in operation.
25.       The Government, attaching high priority to the development of the
mining sector and concerned about the impending crisis in the sector rising
from the lack C' --vloration, has concluded that the perceived risks are too
high and t,.e exc -t,, re,u- on investment generally too low to expect the
private sector to invest in exploration. The Government has, therefore,
decided to take the exploration risks itself while encouraging private sector
investment in mine development. To this effect, the Government has, in
April 1977, created a Mineral Exploration Fund to provide contingent capital
and technical assistance for exploration financed by the Fund, and in
July 1978, enacted legislation providing tax incentives for exploration
financed by the Fund.
26.       Of the total tax revenues from mineral production, about 70%
accrues from a tax on presumed income and 20% from a tax on the gross sales
value of concentrates. Both taxes, the first because of the way in which it
is calculated and the second because of its nature, limit mine development
to the exploitation of relatively high grade mines. The Government, aware of
the negative effect the present tax system has on the development of the
mining sector, commissionetd two studies to analyze alternatives. A 1975 study
by the Harvard Institute fior International Development, financed by IDA,
recommended that prices and costs used for the presumed income tax be



- 8 -
updated and that the existing tax system be replaced eventually by a tax
on profits. A standard accounting system, a basic requirement for such a
change, was designed in 1976 with the assistance of the Canadian International
Development Association. The recommendations of these studies have been
subject to intensive discussions within Bolivia. 1/ The Government has
not yet been able to take a decision because of complex ramifications stemming
from the special role of the mining sector in Bolivia, political pressure
resulting from any change--in particular relief--in taxes and the difficult
financial situation of the public sector. The new Government is expected,
however, to assess the incentive system of the mining sector in the context of
the international tin price, the public budget and the foreign exchange
position of the country.
The Bank Group's Role in the Mining Sector
27.       In 1971, a Bank Group mission visited Bolivia to examine the mining
sector and to identify a development program which could be supported by the
Bank Group (Report PI-14a). Following discussions on the conclusions of the
mission with the Bolivian Government it was decided that the impact of Bank
Group assistance would be greatest if it were directed to the financing of the
private mining sector, to support, first, the expansion plans of mines in the
medium-mining sector, second, the expansion plans of mines in the small-mining
sector and third, the establishment of a mineral exploration fund. It was
felt that Bank Group involvement in COMIBOL could take place only after
Government actions were taken to increase COMIBOL's managerial autonomy and
efficiency.
28.       The first phase has involved a credit and a loan channeling US$12.0
million through the privately-owned Industrial Bank for the expansion of
medium-sized mines as well as for a national survey of small mines, and for
technical assistance to the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy and for sector
studies. After initial delays, project implementation now is satisfactory.
The second phase has involved the channeling of US$9.0 million through the
Government-owned Mining Bank for the expansion of small scale mines and for
technical assistance to the Geological Institute, and to the Ministry of Mines
and Metallurgy and the Mining Bank and for sector studies. Project implementa-
tion has been slower than expected because of difficulties with the prepara-
tion of feasibility studies for small mines, and limited response from the
small mining sector. The Bank and the Mining Bank have agreed to modify
procedures for sub-project approval. The third phase of Bank Group involve-
ment is the proposed project. Besides providing needed capital for mine
expansion, Bank Group financing has enhanced the technical and managerial
competence of the Industrial Bank, the Geological Institute and the Ministry
of Mines and Metallurgy.
1/   These issues are discussed in "Present Position and Prospects of the
Mining and Metallurgical Sector of Bolivia" (Report No. 1251a-BO
dated November 19, 1976).



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       In 1972, the Bank recommended in a report on the Mining and
Metallurgical Sector of Bolivia (Report No. PI-14A) that mineral exploration
be encouraged, inter alia, by establishing a self-replenishing fund whose
loans were to be contingent upon the successful commercial development of
explored deposits. During 1975-76, a feasibility study for an exploration
fund was undertaken by the US Geological Survey with the cooperation of
Bolivia's Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy and financed under IDA credit
455-BO. The task was difficult because no prior experience with exploration
funds existed in Bolivia, and it was very limited in other developing countries.
The study, revised and expanded in 1976 by the Ministry, provided the framework
for the National Mineral Exploration Fund established on April 26, 1977. The
objective of the Fund is to foster mineral exploration in Bolivia and thus
facilitate the expansion of mineral production and exports. The troposed
project would assist the Fund to develop into a capable and effective institu-
tion. In EL broader perspective, the project is part of the Bolivian Government's
efforts, partly financed by the Bank Group since 1974, to tap to a greater
extent the mineral resources; of the country. The project consists of the
Fund's 1979-82 operations program including purchase of equipment and materials,
and of technical assistance required to strengthen the operational capabilities
of the Funcd. The credit for the project would finance consultant and contractor
services for mine exploration, equipment and technical assistance.
30.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited
Bolivia in April/May 1978 and by a follow-up mission in January 1979.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Bolivia - National Mineral
Exploration Fund Project" No. 2309-BO dated June 5, 1979 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. It contains a discussion on the role
of mineral exploration funds. A supplementary data sheet is presented in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 30 to May 25,
1979. The Government delegation was headed by Messrs. Alfonso Criales from
the Ministry of Planning and Coordination and Gonzalo Gutierrez from the
Ministry oE Mines and Metal:Lurgy; the Fund delegation was headed by the Fund's
General Manager, Mr. Jaime Vlillalobos.
The National Mineral Exploration Fund
31.       The National Mineral Exploration Fund is expected to promote and
finance prospecting and exploration, using contributions and borrowings from
the Government and other sources, and, in a growing proportion, revenues from
its operations. The Fund has been established as a public development enter-
prise with legal identity and financial and managerial autonomy. It is fully
owned by the Government; its Board is headed by the Minister of Mines and
Metallurgy, and the other six members are representatives of the President of
Bolivia, the Ministries of Finance, Planning, and Mines and Metallurgy, the
Bolivian Geological Institute and the Mining Bank. In addition to policy
formulation and general supervision of the Fund operation, the Board is
responsible for the approval of all contracts to be entered into by the Fund,
as recommended by the Fund's General Manager, for the review of any decisions



- 10 -
to reject or postpone action on applications for Fund financing, and for the
approval of purchases exceeding US$30,000 equivalent. Operation of the Fund
is delegated to a General Manager who supervises: (a) the Projects Department
responsible for the planning, evaluation, and supervision of prospecting and
exploration activities; (b) the Investment Department responsible for identify-
ing the Fund's future financial needs, and the financial evaluation of appli-
cants, the preparation of financial projections for potential projects, and
the collection of payments to the Fund; and (c) the Administrative Department;
and who is advised by the legal counsel. The Fund operates in accordance with
the provisions of Decree Law 14549 and its by-laws which are satisfactory and
would be modified only with the agreement of IDA (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
32.       Presently, the Fund's staff totals 53 people of whom 28 are profes-
sionals. The General Manager, and the heads of the Projects and Investment
Departments are well qualified and have limited but relevant experience.
Below this level, the staff, while generally qualified, are still lacking in
experience. As part of the Project, the Fund would upgrade its staff through
4 man-weeks of teaching in Bolivia and 3 man-months of overseas training, in
accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA, part of which has been agreed
upon; the remainder is to be submitted to IDA not later than January 1, 1980
(Section 2.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, the credit
would finance up to 100 man-months of consulting services for the Fund to
contract, in agreement with IDA, to assist the Fund in its operations. The
need for such consulting services would be identified and agreed upon every
six months between IDA and the Fund (Section 2.04(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The GTZ will finance technical assistance which would be indis-
pensable to ensure successful performance by the Fund, particularly in the
fields of mine project evaluation and development, mineral economics and
financial analysis. With the existing staff level and the training and
technical assistance contemplated, the Fund should be in a position to carry
out the 1979-82 program. The Fund is proceeding to hire a qualified accounting
firm on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to assist the Fund in establish-
ing a consistent set of financial statements and a system to monitor costs and
benefits of each project. The cost of this assistance, estimated at US$25,000,
would be financed retroactively under the credit. The Fund has agreed to
provide IDA with monthly progress reports, quarterly financial state-
ments and audited annual financial statements, (Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement) and, as a condition of credit effectiveness, to appoint
qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
33.       The Fund encourages owners of mines in operation and of sites of
apparent mining potential to apply for financial assistance for the explora-
tion of their properties. Exploration is carried out in four stages;
technical and financial assessments would be made before proceeding to each
of the four stages to select those projects which are most likely to justify
development of a new mine or expansion of one already in operation. Decisions
on project selection and financing through successive stages of exploration



- 11 -
are made by the General Manager upon the recommendation of the Financial
Committee. This Committee, composed of the heads of the Projects and Invest-
ments Departments and the Legal Counsel has been established to provide the
General Manager with adequate basis for decision-making. Committee recommen-
dations ari based on a desk review of each application to ascertain the
apparent mine characteristics, the solvency of the mine owner and the conces-
sion rights, before proceeding to Stage A, and on a systematic application of
financial and technical criteria before proceeding to Stages B, C or D.  The
Fund has agreed on technical and financial criteria satisfactory to IDA for
the evaluation of exploration sub-projects to be financed by IDA (Section
2.02(f) of the draft Project Agreement). Stage A is a general, two-week
survey of the mine, consisting of on-site inspection and a brief evaluation of
the mine potential. Stage 1B consists of geological mapping and a topographic
survey of the mine, systematic sampling, trenching and drifting; it is expected
to take about four months. Stage C is a detailed reserve evaluation, consisting
of drilling and tunneling, reserve estimation and a prefeasibility study; it
is expected to take one to two years. Stage D is a feasibility study; it is
also expected to take one to two years.
34.       The Fund would screen applications prior to Stage A and carry out
Stage A with its own staff, except for alluvial deposits for which consultants
would be required. Stages B, C and D would be the responsibility of the Fund
which for the purpose would contract the services of consultants and contrac-
tors, under contracts acceptable to IDA. In approving such arrangements, IDA
would have to be satisfied that the quality of work would be adequate, that
project continuity would be assured and a proliferation of consultants
avoided (Section 2.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement and draft Supplemental
Letter). This work would be contracted in accordance with IDA guidelines.
35.       To date, there has been considerable demand for Fund financing from
medium mines. It is expected that demand will arise from small mines,
as well as from COMIBOL. COMIBOL has announced its intention of starting a
regular exploration programl, but no specific actions have yet been taken.
COMIBOL mines in operation and the mineral reserves it has been assigned could
be prime targets for substantial exploration activities and COMIBOL could
profit from the economic and financial analysis that the Fund is expected
to apply. However, because of COMIBOL's size and prominence in the sector,
there is the risk that COMIBOL might monopolize the Fund at the expense of the
development of the private mining sector. Furthermore, the Fund would have
to spread the exploration risk by limiting the Fund's exposure to any mine
owner, including COMIBOL. Therefore, it was agreed that the Fund's exposure
to any mine owner, including COMIBOL, would never be greater than US$2.0
million equivalent (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
36.       The Fund finances fully the four stages of exploration and the
mine owner is under financial obligation to the Fund only if the feasibility
report concludes that it would be justified to proceed with the commercial
exploitation of the deposits, or if a mine owner opts to terminate unilaterally
his contract with the Fund.. If the Fund decides not to proceed further with
the project after stages A, B or C, or if the feasibility report is negative,



- 12 -
or if the mine owner decides not to proceed further after Stage A, the mine
owner is under no obligation to the Fund. Following successful completion of
Stage A, the Fund and the mine owner may sign a contract agreeing to continue
exploration of the deposit, subject to the Fund's General Conditions (Section
2.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). General Conditions applicable to all
contracts have been agreed in principle with the Fund; the adoption by the
Fund of General Conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The contract would include (Section 2.04(b) of the draft
Project Agreement):
(a) a working plan setting forth the nature and scope of the work
to be carried out;
(b) a budget, within which the Fund can make unilateral changes
to the working plan; and,
(c) provisions obliging the miner to (i) accept the Fund's
recommendations as to the economic, technical and financial
feasibility of exploiting the deposit, (ii) repay the
Fund in case of successful exploration; (iii) repay the
Fund in case of unilateral decision of the mine-owner
to rescind the contract or not to proceed with exploit-
ation against the advice of the Fund; and (iv) accept
the Fund's selection of consultants and contractors to
carry out the sub-project.
37.       The repayment, in case the feasibility study concludes that mine
development would be justified, would be:
(i) an 8% royalty on the revenues from the sale of the total mine
production. Royalties would be paid until not less than twice
the total amount actually spent by the Fund in the exploration of
the deposit, including costs of Stage A, is reached; and
(ii) interest of 10% on the total amount actually spent by the Fund,
which would become effective upon the completion of the feasi-
bility study but only payable when production from the new
deposit commences.
Existing legislation provides that taxes to be paid to the Government by the
mine owner could be reduced by up to 60% of the royalty payments to the
Fund. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would enact a
Joint Ministerial Resolution specifying that the deduction would be made by
the mine owner to the taxes he pays to the Government and not to the royalties
he pays to the Fund, since existing legislation may also be interpreted that
way. In case the mine owner decides to terminate the contract in spite of
the Fund's readiness to continue, or does not comply with his obligations
under the contract, the whole amount due to the Fund becomes due and payable
immediately.



- 13 -
38.       Fund operations for the project would be financed from Government
contributions, grants and loans from bilateral and international agencies and
the Fund's own revenues. By the decree creating the Fund, the Government set
out a contribution of US$12.0 million to be disbursed over a ten-year period.
The Fund would, in turn, finance:
(a)  Fund staff time and equipment used to execute Stage A
and to supervise Stages B, C and D; and
(b) consultants or contractors employed by the Fund to carry
out Stages A, B, C and D;
In addition, and since the Fund has set limits to its financial assistance to
any specific project, the mine owner would be expected, in projects with an
estimated production beyond 250 tons per day, to contribute from his own funds
up to 50% of the financing of the exploration works.
39.       In its initial years, the Fund will have to prove to the Govern-
ment, mine owners, and present and potential financial supporters that it is
an effective and efficient mechanism to promote mining exploration in Bolivia;
at the same time the Fund will try to diminish its dependency on grants or
Government contributions to protect its independence. To achieve these ends
the Fund (i) will provide training for its staff and (ii) will concentrate on
projects in mines in operation to reduce exploration costs and improve chances
of successful exploration. Also, for mines in operation the time required for
testing and studies is less than for undeveloped deposits, since ore charac-
teristics and mine conditions are relatively known, and the chance of expedi-
tious mine development is greater than in undeveloped sites. The development
of additicnal production is dependent on the availability of financing for
mining activities and on the financial return for the mine owner, which is
directly affected by the tax structure. Both financing and know-how to
develop the deposits expected to be studied by the Fund are generally avail-
able in Bolivia. The Fund intends to coordinate its activities with local
banks, primarily the Industrial and Mining Banks, to ensure that the feasi-
bility studies conform to their requirements. The Fund will also continue to
lobby strongly for modifications to the mining tax laws to encourage mine
development. Finally, through the contracting of exploration work, the Fund
will strengthen the local mining consulting firms, therefore improving the
contribution of these firms to the mining industry.
Project Description
40.       The project consiLsts of technical assistance to the Fund and of the
Fund's 1979-82 exploration program including purchases of equipment which
assumes:
(a) Stage A work for about 40 projects per year; and
(b) Stage B work for about 25 projects (of which 14 have successfully
completed Stage A and 11 are to be identified out of the work to
be carried out under (a) above), Stage C work for about 8 projects
and Stage D work for about 5 projects.



- 14 -
The exploration program outlined assumes a rate of successful projects of
one in thirty. This appears reasonable since (i) fourteen of the projects
for which Stage A has been already completed appear promising prospects,
and (ii) most, if not all, of the projects in the 1979-82 program will
consist of expansions of mines in operation. IDA would approve all the
exploration projects to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
credit; specifically, IDA would approve the contract to be entered by the Fund
with the mine owner, and all contracts entered by the Fund with consultants
and contractors for the carrying out of the project. Previous approval would
be required for contracts for more than US$50,000 equivalent and, regardless
of the amount for the first ten contracts with consultants (Section 2.02(b) of
the draft Project Agreement). The criteria agreed with the Fund (Section
2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement) limits the Fund to the financing of
projects with an output at full development of between 50-1,000 tons per day,
to avoid projects with a small production potential and excessive Fund exposure
to large projects. IDA would not finance (i) pilot testing plants unless
technically and economically justified (Section 2.02(f) of the draft Project
Agreement), and (ii) rehabilitation of processing plants unless technically
and economically justified, unless there is no other financing available, and
the cost of the rehabilitation does not exceed 15% of the cost of the sub-
project nor the equivalent of US$100,000 (Section 2.02(f) of the draft Project
Agreement).
41.       The Fund is still in the formative stage.  Its institutional
framework, operating procedures and financial provisions have to be tested.
Therefore, it is likely that changes in them will be necessary after exper-
ience has been gained with a sufficient number of projects. The composition
of the Fund's portfolio is expected to change slowly towards the exploration
of new sites, as availability of projects for the expansion of mines in opera-
tion declines. This will not only increase the degree of risk associated
with exploration, but also require reconsideration of the appropriate volume
of Fund operations. Considering the uncertainties which quite naturally
surround this type of Project, the Government and the Fund have agreed to
(i) furnish IDA by March 31, 1982 a report reviewing the experience gained,
and providing the scope, cost estimates and financial resources required for
the carrying out of the Fund's 1983-87 program, and (ii) not later than
September 30, 1982, put the program into effect after exchanging views with
IDA (Sections 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and 4.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
42.       In the light of the relative inexperience of the Fund in coordinating
and contracting exploration work and of the possibility of unfavourable
developments in the incentives for investment in the sector, that may affect
the actual exploitation of the ore deposits identified by the Fund, the
credit would be divided in two tranches to afford the Government, IDA, and the
Fund the opportunity to assess the progress of the project at about the mid
point of project implementation. The first tranche would be completed eighteen
months after credic effectiveness or when US$3.5 million of the credit is
committed, whichever is  irs;t.  Release of the second tranche would take place
only if IDA is satisfied  ic.h the performance of the Fund and that the purposes
of the Cred.t will bF         plshed.



- 15 -
Project Cost, Financing Plan and Disbursements
43.       Total project cost including contingencies, is estimated at US$15.9
million, of which US$4.5 million would be the foreign currency component.
Contingencies are estimated at US$4.9 million. Capitalized interest would be
an additicnal US$0.5 million. Cost estimates for consultants and service
contracts (amounting to US$7.0 million, excluding contingencies) have been
developed by the Fund in consultation with IDA, and local and foreign consul-
tants; they are in line with costs for similar work in other countries.
Equipment costs (amounting to US$1.2 million, excluding contingencies) are
partly based on recent Fund purchases of similar equipment and prices quoted
by suppliers from different countries. Administrative costs are estimated at
US$1.3 million; cost to carry out Stage A of subproject is estimated at US$0.7
million. Technical assistance costs are estimated at US$0.8 million. Costs for
foreign experts average US,$7,800 per man-month.
44.       The project would be financed by US$7.90 million in Government
loans; US!D4.3 million in Government equity contributions (an additional US$0.5
million equivalent in equit;y contributions would be used to finance the Fund's
prospecting program); and US$4.30 million in equipment and technical assistance
to be provided by bilateral donors. Of the Government loans, US$0.40 million
equivaleni: would be provided by the Central Bank at 5% interest for twenty
years incLuding fifteen years of grace, and US$7.5 million from the proposed IDA
credit at 6.5%, for twenty years including five years of grace, with the Fund
taking the foreign exchange risk. For the first five years, interest on IDA
funds would be paid at a rate of 2.5%, with the difference between 6.5% and
2.5% to be accumulated and repaid in equal bi-annual installments, without
interest, during the amortization period (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Equipment and technical assistance, including local
services, would be provide,d as a grant, in the equivalent of US$3.80 million,
from Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), a German government
agency for technical cooperation, for Stages B to D of at least one large
deposit, and in the equivalent of US$0.50 million from the Bureau de Recherches
Geologiques et Minieres (B]RGM) of the Government of France, for the Stage B of
three to four projects. Sluccessful conclusion of the agreements with the GTZ
would be a condition of effectiveness; agreement with the BRGM has been
completed.
45.       The Government's equity contributions would be disbursed at a
rate of US$1.2 million per year to finance exploration subprojects and the
Fund's operational expenses. In 1980, 1981 and 1982 not less than US$0.6
million equivalent would be provided for the financing of exploration sub-
projects by the Fund and a quarter of that amount would be made available to
the Fund at the beginning of each quarter. For 1979, US$678,000 will be
depositecL in such account by October 1, 1979 (Section 3.01(c), (d), and (g) of
the draft Development Credlit Agreement). IDA funds would not be disbursed
unless the Government is up-to-date with these deposits. Government contribu-
tions required to cover the Fund's operating expenses would be made available
as reques,ted by the Fund (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Any differences between the annual US$1.2 million equivalent
Government contribution and accrued contributions during the year would be
made at the end of the year (Section 3.01(f) and (h) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
46.       The Fund's major source of revenue would be royalty payments from
developed mines. The level of these payments is a function of the Fund's
success in identifying ore reserves and the rate at which those reserves are
brought into production. Financial projections rely on forecast of success-
ful exploration and mine development and are necessarily highly tentative.
Projections made under the various assumptions show that the Fund is not
likely to be self-financing for many years, if ever; that it will be unable to
service debt until the mid-80's; and that it will require additional Government
and other financial support following the project period. The Fund would not
contract any debt until the Closing Date of the proposed credit (established
as of June 30, 1983), and thereafter only if, on the basis of financial
projections acceptable to IDA, its projected debt service coverage is more
than 1.5 and unless the debt/equity ratio is 1 or less; the current ratio is
to be at all times 1 or higher (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
47.       All procurement would be in agreement with IDA procurement guide-
lines. Goods under contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000, each may
be procured on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers, except
contracts for rails, water pipes and air pipes which would be procured in all
cases under international competitive bidding. IDA would approve the awardings
of all contracts. Credit disbursements would be made for: (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of equipment or of the ex-factory price of locally
procured goods, estimated at US$1.4 million including contingencies; (b) 100I
of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance and training, estimated
at US$1.0 million including contingencies; and (c) 60% of the cost of contracts
with consultants and contractors to carry out work under subprojects estimated
at US$8.5 million, including contingencies. About 70% of the credit is
expected to finance local costs. Disbursements would start in the second half
of 1979 and end in 1982.
Benefits and Risks
48.       While the genuine uncertainty inherent in exploration activities
makes economic rate of return estimates more notional than predictive, they
are nevertheless indicators of probable ranges of economic benefits. The
economic analysis carried out takes into account, as economic benefits, the
total incremental revenues generated by increased ore production resulting
from Fund financed exploration, and, as economic costs, the Fund exploration
investments for successful and unsuccessful projects plus the cost of develop-
ing and exploiting the deposits.  The evaluation is made over a twenty-year
period of Fund activities. The economic rates of return are estimated at 18%
and 25% for two different sets of assumptions regarding the probabilities of
mineral discoveries. 1/ The Fund would generate an accumulated foreign
exchange surplus of close to US$113 million by 1990. The accumulated net
Government fiscal benefit generated by the Fund is expected to be about US$38
million up to 1990. An unquantifiable benefit of the Fund operations would be
the creation of jobs in isolated, economically depressed areas.
1/   In one, 20 of the exploration projects to be undertaken by the Fund would
generate revenues, and revenues would start in 1982; in the other, 10
projects would generate revenues, and revenues would start in 1983.



- 17 -
49.       Project benefits would accrue primarily to the Government through
additional tax revenue and the availability of additional foreign exchange, to
the owners of mines and mine sites, and to Bolivians directly and indirectly
connected with the mining industry. In the light of the historical attitude
of the Bolivian Government towards private mining investment and the strong
mining labor unions, it is not probable that inordinate benefits would
accrue to private mine owners because of the project.
50.       A fund for mineral exploration is of necessity a high risk opera-
tion in that the projects selected by such a fund may not turn out to be
financially justified projects because of lack of promising mineral deposits,
market constraints, credit constraints or an unfavorable incentive system.
Although Bolivia's territory has already been mined for many centuries, there
are indications, arising from limited exploration in existing mines and from
the geological data available, that there is still substantial mining potential.
The result cof the scant exploration carried out in the last ten years gives
reason for optimism. Furthermore, to reduce the risk of not identifying
justified projects, the Fund intends to give priority to exploring the expan-
sion of existing mines, and only progressively and after 1982 to explore new
deposits. The market for tin is expected to grow at a rate of 1-2% a year.
Assuming that Bolivia maintains its share of the market, a reasonable assump-
tion, there should be no difficulty in marketing additional tin production;
nor should Bolivia have any clifficulty in marketing the modest increases in
other minerals - in which its market share is smaller than in tin - it is
expected to generate. Credit for justified projects has been available in the
past and it is foreseen that it will continue to be in the future. With
regard to m:Lning taxes, the Bank Group will continue to discuss with the
Government economic policies., which include taxing policies, as part of the
ongoing economic dialogue.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Bolivia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Fund
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  appointment of qua:Lified, independent auditors acceptable to
IDA;
(b) enactment of Joint Ministerial Resolution clarifying existing
legislation;
(c)  adoption by the Fund of General Conditions acceptable to IDA;
and
(d) putting into effect the bilateral agreement with the GTZ.



- 18 -
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 14, 1979



-19 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLi 3A
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BOLIVIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1098.6                                                   SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     304.8                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  180.0       290.0     540.0           1066.7      432.3       867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     147.0       229.0      303.0           911.1       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         3.8         4.9        5.9 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL,) 29.2        32.3      34.0             57.9       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        3.0          4.0       5.4             25.6       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      13.0        16.0      19.0             77.6       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4         41.9      41.6            42.0        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRs.                         54.0        54.6       54.9            52.2        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6          3.5       3.5              3.7        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.6       2.7              2.7        2.7         2.5
URBAN                              3.6          4.2       4.1              4.3        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6        44.4      44.0             35.8       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.5        19.7      19.1              9.1       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2.8       2.8              2.6        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..       7.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        ..             15.1       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             80.9        100.0     110.8            102.1      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   69.0         76.0      77.0            103.9       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0         46.0      48.5             60.3       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.3 IA     14.0      14.4             26.7       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      11.0         7.4        ..              8.7        7.5         8.0
HEALTE
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.3         45.3      46.8             62.6       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       154.0        ..             56.9       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TCTAL                               ..         33.0      34.0             60.7       31.1        56.8
URBAN                               ..         92.0      81.0             78.0       68.5        79.0
RURAL                                *-         2.0       6.0             34.9       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF EOPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        12.0        ..             61.1       37.5        30.9
UEBAN                                *-        25.0        ..             80.3       69.5        45.4
RURAL                               ..          4.0       9.0             25.4       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3900.0      2300.0    2120.0           1899.3     9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2730.0    2370.0           1220.1     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TCTAL                            580.0        510.0        *-            422.3      786.5       493.9
URBAN                                *-       200.0        ..            258.2      278.4       229.6
RURAL                                *-      2400.0        ..           2281.6     1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            25.6       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..              5.2         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..         ..          5.0
RIRAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..         ..          5.4
AVERLAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..              2.0         ..          2.0
ULBAN                               ..           ..        ..              2.1        2.3          1.5
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..              2.7         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             22.0 /h                                 51.2       28.3         64.1
[DEAN                              76.0 7F       .         .              77.3         ..         67.8
RIRAL                               8.0 7h       *-        *              12.8       10.3         34.1



ANNEX I
-20-                                        Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGIES
BOLIV1A                                               la
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE Ab      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 64.0        68.0      74.0           103.5        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               50.0        56.0      65.0           102.9       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        21.0        ..            37.2        17.7        33.8
FEMALE               10.0        18.0        ..            37.9        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0        11.0      10.0            14.7         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           27.0        24.0      23.0            32.8        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         13.0        17.0        ..            17.8        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.8        40.0        ..             74.9       63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       2.0            26.9         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        73.0          ..      78.0           173.5        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..            69.4        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 27.0        42.0      25.0             72.8       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..             4.3         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2000.0 /i  2300.0    2500.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  18.9 /i     19.5      20.4            21.4        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             67.0        65.0      65.0            37.8        54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.1        21.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.1        33.2      33.0            30.8        37.8        33.8
MALE                                56.0        53.7      52.7            47.2        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                              12.7        12.9      13.4             13.2       20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.0       1.0              1.7        1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        36.0        ..            28.9        19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        59.0        ..            57.7        48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         4.0        ..             3.2         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        13.0        ..            10.7        15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            251.9      155.9       191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     134.0            200.6       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     105.0            403.1      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      75.0            258.0       87.3       197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0            24.8        22.9        19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0            65.2        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the sost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amOng the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /f Provisional 1976 population census gives estimate
of 4.647 million; /R Av. 1961-65; /h 1963; /i 1965.
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3oE 6
DEFII5TION5S OF SOCIAL MNICATORS
Notes:  Although thi dote ore drawn from ecruso generally judged the most authorltative end reliable, It should also be noted that they say not he intte-'
natonaly   coerb L. beca.se of the lack of standardised definitions end concepts need by different countries in colleting the date.  Thu date ore, nositheloee.
,,oa   odscieodr  of magnitude, Indicate trends, and choractsries certain major differences hetween countries.
The adiouto1 groan  -eroron     for suc h indicetor ore popsletionwsightad geintrio  -men, smoluding ths setrom   values of the indicetor san  tho most
pupulutod country i,s each group.  Covorage of  cwtisamong the indicator  depende on  -oslability of dare sod is not uniform.  Duo to lack of data,
grup .o-gs  o  Capital Surplus oil Ouportre and tadulteaor  of ac..e. to water and snursto diepsoa1, honeing, innona distribution sod poverty  rer
ulope I populsiuo--ightrd us-atrit n_n  without tho n-cl-ios of sarnsvlus
LAND AREA (thou....d sq. he)                                                            Population ear busoitel bed - total. urb,an  rural - Population (total,
Total - Totul- a    ..i.to   ure  o.ipeliig land ar.ea nd Inland waters                   urban, end rural) divided by their reapeoti-a samber of hospital beds
Ahoc.clt-rl _-Mot rotoet ostimte :of agricult-turlrea used tempurarily                    available In public. end private general and epecisli.sd hospital andro
or po-nanontly for -ropn, pastuoa.nrkist and kitcheon gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hiospitals are eetsbliltehente permanetly satf0fed by
lie folow                                                                              at least one pbyscian.  Establishmaets providing principally custodial
etar  are not included.  Rural hospItals,b tr, i.Inuds health and mcdi-
1GNP PtR CAPIT  (l)  - GNP pot -opito estimates at currant market prices.                  naI cen ters not permanetly stuffed by a physlicia  (but by m medical as-
-ulculurd by so. no  -onv ioo  method as Iforld Daub Atlas, f197i-77 bssia):           sietent. nuse didwifs, etc.) which offst in-patient a-rconoodation snd
196i, 1970,"od 1977 Auto,                                                              provide a limited range of medIcal feeiliotoi.
Admissions per h.spitt1 bed - Total numbesr of admissions to or diathargen
ENEtiT CONSUMIPTIONl PER CAPITA - Annual consuption of onemarciol energy                   from hospitela divided by the nuber o fbode.
(tool and liga1to, patrolsun, sotu-I gus and hydro-, nuclear and gS--
t   I-olnetciclty) iu kilcg-ue, of coaI sqoiv-let pot cc.pita.                NOUNINO
Aeaesine i household (parsns per houshold) - total, ura.and rural-
POPULATTION AD  VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A  oshld coaslts ofaoopf               idvidala woateliving quartrer
Totalpcpoaoloy,ml-ye   (milion) - A. of July 1; if nottavailable,an  their main  el.                    A boarder nor lodger moy or map not be includ.d in
avrg ,ftoad-your  -atinuten; 1960,  970, und 1977 detu.                        the house.hold for statistical purposes.  Statiatice1 definitioos of house-
Urbas pc_pulutioo  pecoo  oftoa) Ratio of urbae to totu1 pupula-                         hold very.
tios; difuotdofloltfons of -cbs cr0a0 mop effort cnmpurabillty                       Average nomben of parsons  ar room - total, urban. and rural - Avorage  um
uf data. u.oog -cutrion.                                                               her of persons par romIa all,  rbo.n  and tonal occupied convenional 
Poyulututo doeaIt~~~~~~~~~                                         dwellings. respectively.  DwellIngs seclde ncm-ps.-et  tr-ctu-a and
k. a -h. - Mid-you  populatloo pot oquore ktlonerer (101 h-et-re)                  unoccpied parts.
of totol ..0. Moses. to electrielty (perneet of doellna)   total.  rben, and rural -
Pot sq  Ion. ag-l-lt-c lund - Conputod us  bove f. on  griuultoca1 land                 Conventional dwellings with olootrlotty In living quarters as pooet-tge
ooly.                                                                                  sf toto1, urbcs, and rural dwellings r-ep-tir-ly.
fopolot Lot 00  -tamoutos(ooo            - Childoon (0-14 ymace) , working-age
(15-6So youcs), sod coclcd (65 years sod cyst) aa pscc..nt.sge  of mid-            RDUPOATION
your  ".opulolor                                                                    Adlustod enrollment catlus
P. pjlot-c growth cute (I'lc,oco) - totul, and urban - Compound onnoal                 Primary school - total, sod female - Total oud fenalo o 11r...uono ci al  Ogee
fruct   ,tsto  oftotal  rdbcu  mid-your populatiora for 1950-6i,                       at rho primary level at porceotugoa of re-perto-ly prImacry school-age
.Si,-', ou  1910-75.                                                                   populations.; normally includoa chIldren aged 6-11 years but adjoatd for
Cruido birth rtot   pe  touud  - AnnuA   Ive bictha Par thossand nf                      different l.enths of prImary ed-tulo; Cor  -otties wIth auive..al edu-
nld-ynr poola':lou;  cc-yor -ithantic avaraga  ending in 1960 and               nation enrllmnat ey eacoed lii pecont niec  tome..  pupi1u ace bolow  or
1970 -od flooyorveoug  odito in 1975 for moat retest estiatm.                           bhovo the offIiail nohool ago.
Crude death rtot   pot        . th ed) - AnnualI deatha per thousand sof mid-          O.suna.ry snbool - total, and femalo - Compotad an abovs; secondary odoca-
loc  uclr lo;ten-tsariurlthmetic averages madng in 1961 and 1970                       tion rquirs at. .m.s  f              hryet f approvod pcimaryti.tatotion; pro-
an    o-your     S.crg   ondg in 1971 fur moat  -acet esImate                       ideegn lvctinl   rtahr  troaintg instruilus too pupilo
rosrot-ductio- rare - Average nubebo  of d-ughtt- a woman will boar                   usually of 12 to 17 yeats of age; -oorepondans   ouotsa. .cs generolly
Is her  -ona  -op-od-ote Period if abs napsrioncos prsant age-                         e.claded.
or_ifit fortility r.tso  -su1ly five-year ovoragos ending in 1960,                   loctina  enolmet foat-t of secundars) - Voc-tio...  lniatit.totlo     In-
17071, and 1975.                                                                       cua. t_hohrlra, Indutrlal, or othsr proucan  which uportet isdependotly
Pail   luslo ~i- aopos.ana  (houans  -Aiso  nmber of                                        asp daatst  of set..ndory institotiots.
Acc-pturu of bilrtb-coutrol deoloo  odropiceo of national  iseily                   .P.,l-t...e 17ra.tIo - primary, and secondary - To..ol atudect  enoledI
plu-icg pcog-an                                                                        primay and  Ioodc   ..vela divided by nanhera of teo-bera is tho cocro-
PalyPIanl=     --ouro (curunt of married wmn          Pe-rctags og                    epondiag   vla.
ouridcos of  lI1-b ..rlng age (11-_44 yeat)...o us. bloth-c-u-Io                  Adult Ilitoc- rate (prercatu   - Literate adults (elo to sad und write)u
dri_c  to al    ri eduen is aue age group.                                             a p-arct.gs of total adult populutlon aged 11 y-ro and tier.
Fill ARC S'TRTIO?N                                                                    CONSifNPTtiN
Index oi food  rodcto  cottaota(1970-1ll) - Isdeo soehec of per                       P.....nsr care (Per thouuaud pulto)-P....o. gr turs topriue notocac
-syita ucool produorior ofal  fond o-oditi                                           seating loon than eight persons ; encludes uebo-tco, hooruo  and military
Per ucln suelyof caoisIoretoi  : r            rniemsltfg  - Cnmpstsd frne         v-hiolsa,
ocorgy.ouvln  o   o   od suppllu urailable is.country per capita                    Iai  sevr   prthoutand poplaltion) - All types of It...lvets  ot  ,adic
pet day.  AvaIlable  Ruplescoposedoeiicpr.ot.n imports lest                         hroadcast  to gR oo .1Public Per thousand of populaIus Itlde  unIrud
oupoos,usAobaiotIc aoth   Nn  suplis malod  anmalise, se.ds,       receivers In contries and io Yours when nogistoimoeol   noweI
quIitlr    eud it. food pr-o..uulog, uod losses in diatribotion,  Ne-             effeut; data for recen.t years nay nor ho comparable aince   . n      --courio-
quir-csc ~tot e-utisotod by PAO bu...d on physiological needs for nor- abolished Iilnening.
rol -ttioit'r, th.belth cocuidoring enlroomotal tamperstore. body                   TV re...ivera (per thousan.dpouain - TVreivs for br-ed-at to igorci
ocuglus  uie ud son durcibuioss  f  .poplation, and allowing 10 per-          public per thousand po-pulation; _nludma unliceend TIP r-eivrer  tucou..-
ttn cwura  ho...ahold lu_ol                                                           trios sod in Yese  when regietrarcor, of TV) sets was It affect.
utt -aito noPppl  ofpooi       .gam e  d-y) - Prtetin con tort of per                 Nwperctutin(per thousand populatio                     Sh- bow  the uo-oge oi-cla-
caPita  -re  supfl   ifo   e  day.  Net supply of food Ie defined as                    ill o daly general1 interest usoapapor". define-n   Puldicu  pol
aboor:   lequrseunu  for  ll conroisaustabiehedby USDlA provide toe      cation devoted pnlearily no recording genera n1u-.  It "n"onidord t
alioun-  alosuoc  of 60 gruma of total protain per day sed 20 groan                   be 'dully' if it up pears calat  Pou f.rtiea   o ouch.
ofur,t     ol ad  '.o1- poenof which 10 gras  hbuld he aelia1 pr  :otein              . . Cinea .oau attendant  par ..Pit.    . n   ya-OBaand  on rho   ohr of titbnto.
Thrsri.tandard!: ore I.wor than those of 75 grams of total proteIn and                 sold durIng the year, inolading admissions to drive- in otonotm  and mob1l.
23 grano of an:na1 protein an on avorgs for the nncld, p-posed by                      unite.
PAG .0 tho ThTr-d World Food Aurvoy.
Perciiucon.  ueyfo  anima  ndpls   P-trele supply of fnod                            IPILOYMENT
d-ri-d froe s-imls and pu1s.. Is gas-  per day.                                      atlabrfce(hsnd)- tronontcely activ  e prasn    i-nciudog  rnod
Child'agn 1-4)mo-aity rate (per thounand) - hA-sa1 deaths per th.u.-                 farces and onempinyod but socluding h.a..w,Vo., studenta. et.lfIi-
ar.d Ic 060 group 1-  yearn, to ohildrnn in this ago group.                            otina In various  -outrias are nor tom.parablo.
femal  p-reot   P-'femaleabor force as percen.tage of total labor `o-o
ILtALTI                                                                                                     _ tiutte(ers) - Labor forc  to farming, foretry, hurting and fishing
Life ouonu        k thio(er)- A-erago nuher ci years of life                              as pretgof total labor forc..
remaining or birth; usualIly fiv-your. avrages  -nIng is 19Sf, 1970,                Industry (Percen.t) - Labor force in mising. coarrlo.nnfotrn   c
utd Tos.e75eli.  teutorand gasaspecetage of total labor foc.-
To-fa-t-motality rate (per thonuond) - Annual duoths of misers under                  forticination aefsret  toal male, and fema:le   Totel,nab, sod
ocr oror of ant prr thouassd live hichne.                      ~~~~~femal  labor forro as pcstage  of  terop tve Pop-oooo..
Acesto sofa wartr (croet ccpltion  - total  u rban, and rurlI                         Theseore TLIPs   djuatod p.rtiripartortrerrlri    g-e
Nuahoc of peopLe (total, urban, ond tonal ) with resoab..     o acest                    tttrorar  of tho populotioc. end long tine trend.
safo water supply (ittludes trootad  crfiarewatretorn umt-eatsd but                 Econoeio dependency craio - Raio of populotion under 15 ad 65 and o,rrrto
--cot-inutod wotor ouh an that f-n  protected boreholea, springa,                       the labor force in ago group of 15-64 years.
und -oottar we110) an percen tsgoo of theirrn-p-ti-e popniatinna.
loatubanas  apbi  futain or utandpost located not more                          fCN  TINgT
tbac11  aser2 irnI hous  ey be coosidarad as bring within tea-                      yeuet-tan' of private inoa       bothli  uob a- nd liod) on...iv-d hy rfthout5
notable occeus of thut houso.  In rural areas reasonable acces  would                  portent,richest 20 percent. poorest 20 porceat, and poorest 40 p-er.It
luply thor the hooneoife or nembera of the hou-eh,rld dn anot hove to                  of households.
po,d a.. ipopronte part of the day in fetching tbe ifmily'a
cae uda                                                                       POVigRTY TARGIT GROUlPS
Acconebeonreta dinpas (cocoofpoolt                 _t)-total -uban, ad                 Seletodaelt   oeryicm   eel(1   e                       it)-ubcad tucol 
rulrl - ""lonbrf pooP1n (tsta1, urban, and rural) servd bynmoret a                        Ahouepvet   noelevel Tn tyhat intone Irvl below whih   anT..a"
dfspeo.l.us pcreo         onfs their re-p-ti-o popolatlone.  fotr.r                    euo-titino11y odequato duct plu  nastia1 no-fod q.ui--ns    iaro
dloposo  nay include lbs -o11tio- and disposal, 1with or oithnut                       affordable.
tototnot, ol huma  ocrrtu end wsto-w-t-r by wtot-b-or   sytoma                      Estimated relativj oetyicm lee  (                 ercnt)-rhos and rorulI
orthe uuo of pit privisa oud ubilst instlltions ."                                    Reai       oet Yncom        -1ve  in thar in..cono   . levelba   than one-third
P'Ooco  ncoyylio-Popnlation divided by ..unhor of p-atioing                               pe  topica V poro.a  boone of Tbho co..ntry.
piecuoqualified fooc a nedital school or   -ority leve.                       Intimated lpocultin beo pvrtyIncoe   -evl (pr-t) - urban and rurl
Pocoloict po rottig cocon - Poolutio   dvided by nombor  g-Percet. of T poplation (urbun and  -ur) who act either "uslueporn
p-cuctio   ..I rle ad Louogradunto nures, practicul mre,And                             "etycpour  shioh-vr Is grocter.
ic n o ad poola1 Paru DivIlon.
Eroo.o.ic Anulynia and Projooti... Dopa-tnrt



- 22 -                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
BOLIVIA:  BALAN E OF PAWINTS, EXTERNAL ASSIST601d AND DEST
(torrent US dollar, million.)
Actual                                      Provistonel                     PrM lected
1972         1973       1974        1975        1976             1977                     1980          1985
A. SD_ry of balance of Peamts
Ieports (intl  NFS)                                 -260.6       -309.2    -485.1       -667.3      -711.2            -827.9               -1,167.8       -2,066.3
eports (lock. NPS)                                   224.7        297.2      627.6       527.8       637.1             721.1                 1.023.3       1,919.9
t.so-rce bl.en.                                     - 35.9       - 12.0      142.5      -139.5      - 74.1            -106.8               -  144.5       -  146.9
Factor income                                      - 21.9        - 22.9    - 57.2       - 31.4      - 41.2            - 92.4               -  L46.8       -  264.0
et Interest payments                            (- 1354)      (- 18.05  (- 19.61   (- 25.9)   (- 37.1)             (-  54.1)            (-  135.D5    5-  247.8)
Other fttor servIce inco-  (net)                8- 0.4)    (-  4.95  (- 17.6)   (-  5.5)   (-  4.1)                5- 38.3) I-   11.9)   )-   16.2)
Current tranoirro (cot)                               13.4         15.4       13.7        13.1         14.5              15.0                   24.8          33.3
C-rrenta -cont bolen-e                             -.    3         19.5      119.1      -157.8       -101.3           -184.2                   2b5.5      -  377.6
Direct foreign InveaW-tmt                           - 13.4          4.6       16.7        53.4         12.1             11.0                    13.3          17.8
Officiol  apital grants                               98.0         10.0        9.0         10.5         ..                ..                    20.4           20.0
Pnblic MALT lano
tlsburi mnc-                                       122.5         37.0      108.0       150.4       292.2             427.5                  446.2          685.9
tenonmette                                       - 28.4        - 50.3    - 50.7       - 56.6      - 69.7            - 83.5               -  173. 1      -  286 6
Set dlobotsements                                     94.1          6.7       57.3         93.8       222.5            344.0                   273.1         599.3
Othor long-term loan.
Diobur- eotu                                        17.7         24.0       14.2        16.4         25.0             25.0                    29.0          33.0
ROpaynaenns                                       -  2.6       .  7.6    _ 15.1         18.2      - 23.0            _ 24.0                 - 27.0       -   31.0
Nat disb.reem-otn                                     15.1         16.4    -  0.9       -  1.8          2.0               1.0                    2.0            2.0
Capital  .ransac.ioos n.e.i.                        - 40.9       - 32.1     - 89.6      - 42.5       - 74.0           -163.4                  - 18.6      -   24.8
Chang  ilnoere. erces                               - 18.6         13.9    -111.5         44.4      - 61.3            -  8.4                  - 23.6      _   36.7
c-ante and loans   -it-ents
Total MALT loan.                                     179.9         78.9      172.4       397.5       462.0             587.9                   509.1         747.5
IBRD                                                   -             .                    32.0        69.0              92.0                    80.0          99.9
IDA                                                    9.0          6.0        6.2         7.5         -                 -                      10.0
Other -jltilateral                                    27.0         11.2       35.0        104.6        80.4              15.3                   95.0          95.0
Go -trnments                                          71.7         34.1       60.8        109.3        43.8             177.2                   55.0          61.3
Suppli-r                                              40.1         16.6       13.9        44.2         46 .3            55.5                    50.0          25.7
F inancial Ittitutico-                                23.1          9.9       56.0        09.3       222.5             225.7                   199.1         405.6
Other                                                 10.0          1.1        0.6        10.6          -                22.2                   20.0          20.0
C. Me.mrandam itn
Crant c1ement of tot-l co-i-to  (7)                   32.2         36.5       39.7         19.0        19.2              13.9
Avre-go intere (t                                      4.9          4.9        5.6         6.8          6.9               7.2
Average  --tuity (ycaro)                              19.2         22.0        25.6        17.6        15.0              12.4
Actoel debt o,tstetnding                   Poblic onteroal                                                                               Preovscu,caL
on Den. 31, 1977                           debt and debt nernico                                      1974         1975         19 76        l97
D. Intocoat debt                                         Di.buroed i.1       Portent
10D                                                        42.1              3.1                A. Medium- and loon-term  debt (dinbonned only)
IDA                                                         54.8              4.1
Othar ncltllatoral                                           94.7              7.0                  Total debt outstanding (DO  end of period)             691.6         778.0    1,003.8         1 347.8
Covern_ncts                                                504.7             37 4                    Irelud ng cedinbur.ed                                 889.4       1,206.8     1,385.9        2,089.8
Suppliers                                                   89.9              6.7                   Public debt carries                                     68.0         80.2        104.6          135.6
i.oancial institutions                                     438.8             32.6                     Irt-reet                                              17.3          23.5        14.8            51.8
B odo                                                       69.8              5.2
Public debt net                                             53.0              3.9                B. Debt burden
Tocol p. lic MALT debt                                   1,347.8            100.0
Debt uorviceractio                                      10.8         15.2        ;6.4            00.8
E. Dect protile                                                                                         Debt  ierolce ratio  /1                                 13.6         16.2        17.1            24.1
DObt uernina/GDP                                         3.1          3.2         3.5             3.8
Total debt servico 1978-80/
total DOD and of 1977                                     60.6                                 C. Teare
Int-rest oe DOD/DOD                                      2.5          3.0         3.5             3.0
D. Deeend-cc  ratios far N&LT debt
Croon disboroeseeet/ipanto  (intl. nfn)               22.3          22.5        41.1            51.4
Not trans fec/importn (toIl. nfb                         7.8         10.2        26.1            35.0
Net transf.l/gr.o.  disburoe- ant                      34.0          45.1         -3.4           67.3
E. ferosuro
1B8D D2D/tnatl DOD                                      3.9           2.7         3.1             3.1
Bark group disb./total DOD                              0.9           9.0         8.4             7.2
IRD debt nervice/total debt tervbo-                     5.0          2.0         3.4             2.3
3ank group debt n.rvlca/tatal debt sorvice               5.4          2.6         4.2             3.4
/1  Including net direct in- ret t income.



- 23 -
ANINEX 1
Page 5 of 6
WILMA714    800N31C D3vuL8888u  DATA
76o... 1us$0 .1I1..)
AaosoI      POOO0810..1           prolonor~~~~~~-I..d          1970-    1974-   1977.   1980.
N.010.  A0000                                      1974          1975          1976         1977          1960          1985               1974      1977     1980      1985              1974        197 7      19-80       1995
Coo.80.-00 1977  rIo... i.rlu,  i-o   050Sf70 G                                                    40.                                  - pro--o  of 107
G.... do.r01   70400                              3.051         3.202         3,412        2 .56         4.29          5,347                6.3       5.3       5.0'     5.3              909.7      100.0      101.2       300.1
0~.1.Oo.-  t0oo   rdO()o                                         -138          - 73             a           48             4                -         .                  -                 05          0.0      - 1.2       -0 1
Cr0.8 00.1   10..t. -                             3,060         3,063         3.339         2.,564       4.081         5.343                7.2        5.2     4.6       1.5             100.0       100.0      100.F0      100.0
2090008  (1.01. of.)                  ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~576  702  740  826       937         1,213                7.6      12.9      4.2       5 .3             18.8        23 .2      23.7        22.7
009009' (lool. of.) llororOooo.o1001  -743      ~~~~~        ~~~~-556  -663  -721         -831       -.2149                         -1.0       4.4      65               -26.4       0.          2.         2.
aR...... Sop                                       -167           14"           186           107           116            86                                     - -                      5.5         3.0        2.9         1.0
C008009ti0  roprdit....                           2,311         2,343         7.079         2,971        3,442         4,421                5.1       6.7       5.0      5.i              75.5        83.4       84.3        62.7
100.o00000  rop.odlOoo.0  (1001 ~. .k00)   582           666           644           700          755         1.508                6 .7      6.3      2.6       6.7              19.0        19.6       18.5        10.9
Ooor.01, .ao,0~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~749                     520           460           593          639           922               16.0    -7.5        0.5       7.6              24.5        16.6       15.7        17.3
Noolonl  -aVlo3                                     719           499           130           516           138          779               18.9    -10.5        1.4      7 .7             23 . 5      14.5       13.2        14.6
Lrc.h-OdilB T-.d.
A--aI Dt toa  0C0.09.  P01i.0                                                                                          .Prer   f700   mo
CorasorO  boraol _o-do                             52.7          67.5          62.7          64.9         90.6         159.2            23.7        7.      1.8      01.0               122           .9.          '        4
Co.nro-d ob(r goOd,                         37.7          60.3          06.3          61.6        113.2         2081.4           40.0       17.      22.4      13.                6.         08 i       10.8        11.2
0.L1                                                 .            7. 2          62             .2         10.0          20938.1                    15.7     17.3      17.                0.9         0 0        5.0         I.2
9.90 oocrr,a10  100~. gd.                    1150         12.           189.7         213.          28.          479.4              8.       22.6      10.7     10.7              26.9        292         27.7       25.8
C pita  104                                        77.2         237           052           267.5          77.         699.2             27.       14.7     12.2      13.01             41.0        396. 6     36.2        37.~
00000 .004.                           ~~~~     ~ ~~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~42.0  52.~:2  87.74  17.4  12.2   287.6              7. 7     4,0.0'    11.4     12.1              10.3        14.0       15.0        15 
To-a  .-h-d-08   ip-tO  (00                       430.0         607.9         637.6         730 .9     1,04-2.5      1,85-5.7            22.6     19.3      12.6     12.2              100.0      100.7-      100.6    . 100--
0070-00                                                                                                                                                                                       A. Forn o. tf T00.1 E.000
7010007 pOodoot,                     361.9~       ~~~~~~       ~ ~~ 274..3  38 9.9  513.6    67.         ,31318 .7                    12.4       9.       4061.6                       79.2        >93         (.
0..1,                                22~~~ ~ ~~~~~~             ~~~~~~ ~~5.  18.0  185.4  154.9  239.8    429.9            103.3    .15.7      21.1    t2.4                36.4        20.8       26.2        04.8
00Cood. p.-raro                                 (03.33        /683.4)       (64.0>       (67.5)       (119.6)       (Z69.2)          (47.9)      (2.3)  (21.0)  (17.6)               (10.76     (10.4'       U.213.     :25.0'
M-Oft.-O.4 000d0                                     ..            ..           ..            ..            ...                           .1 6                                             
70001 o.006.o410. 0000000 (0001  167.0   Z~~~~~~~~~~~7i   ~~7t*i ~   648.5        915.0       1,3.                 16        3.4    12.2       13.,             100.0       50(.0      100         100.0
M-h.rondi.. Tr-do 0dic..
0.t000     riorlde                               86.3          74.2          56.0         130.0         117.7         169.8
2000 ipl.  Ir.                                  51           95.6         96.7         100.0         124.6         170.4
T.00.  800.. loroI                                                 I 7.        8o.9         100.0         94.5           99.6
8209oto_o  i0 .    d9. -(i-l. oft)                 90.2          71.3          00.9         130.0        126.0         153.0
Valor Add04 30 0.-0-                                            A00-1 0.-0001977 0000.0 rod 0,o.h-gt R00..                                    --.0.0  Annu1 Cowlh R.0.8                            A. P00m         09 Too
(074          195          17             97           1980          1985
Agrol-lt-                                        554           591           612           600          215           991                3.0       3.8l     4,6       4.5              18.2        17.4       1'.3,       (0.7
Ond-:ry .04  i09-0                                900           873           960        1.010         1,162         1,504                7.7       3.       48        5.3              29.5        293        202         (.
Servo,.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,9                       3.738        1.940         1.934         2.252         2.5                  6.0       6.6      5.2       5.6               2.  5       4 .3      54.5        52.2
7001                                            3.051         3.202         3,412        3,564         4.129         53,47                6.3       5.3       6.0      5.3             100.0       130.0      100.0       (3.
0.bl10 FloO..o                                                    P0.-t of                                                                                                               Al rclorO    . 0    I/ 700.1
(C.000,1 000.0.0.00)                  ~~~~~        ~~~~~~1974  1975  1976     17977                                                                                                        J.10IOtr(lr-0 P.n,
1200,00001p0                                     13.1          13.0          13.5          12.9                                           10000P-0.                                           '19760.90
C.-00..t .0p10di0-                               10.9          10.6          11.4          10.5                                           Agi01r0.
003t.0   8008          .2.3                                   2.3           1.9          2.6                                           00010  .rd hydOon..b.2.                                   4
PoOlli 8.0000 0000030                  ~~~~         ~~~~         ~ ~~~9,3  3.5  7.2  6.2. 04ot0y -d p-rO                                                                             20.8
PoSlit  fiord oOpOo-I (00001-                        6.9         11.3          13.4          31.15                                         T7r.or-o    cd 00-i1001i...I.
21bli0 ar-i-o  004 ... -1 8800cr2i.
0400000t Orodtr   .01                                                                                                                                                                             -00 0
a. Iooa   _oro   OpOdlo                    1974          1975         1976          1977
0004, . -4 er,.                               15.           19.9         20.4          19.3                                                                                         48 P.-Cm          '.L:0
3.'.184   -d  0100                               52.           51.3          52.0          12.0                                           PloOOoln                                            1977.80f 
!rn--0P90-      0                                29 .0         24.9          24.8          25.0                                           P010-0. 000 
70h-                                              3.3           4.0           2.             .7                                            003.9083 
T001 00000   090400.                            100.0         109.0         100.0        100.0                                            0.116080000                                            389
1018.4d Indi..,...                                 1970-         1974-         1977-         1980-TO0
1974          1972         1980          1965
0000                                   ~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~~         ~~~2.84  3.68  3.63  3.50
lopoor *10001o100                      ~~~~         ~~~~          ~~~~~1.2  2.3  0.9  1.0
4000030 009100.1 0001088 roOr.              19.9          19.0          13.0          14.4
050301  .10010013  t...                    .42         - .04           .04           .20
19710         197           9(           1 976        1707           197          197         170           97
430101000                                       1,307 1i43                   64.0          16.0           1.9           349         419         29.7         30.9
S   ro.00   113276                                              378          14.0         11.0            5.4        2.420        2.540       205.8        197.3
10001cr                               44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-6  690    720           2.              .3        2.3          2.706        341.0        190.6
ToOol                              ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~        ~~~~2,029  2,517  100.  100.   3. 7       1,176        1,356        100.0       100.0



ANNEX 1
- 24 -                                       Page 6  of 6
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT, 1969-1977
(US$ millions)
1969     1970      1971     1972      1973     1974       1975       1976      1977/!
International Organizations         39.1      6.9      26.8     35.0      17.2     41.2      144.1      148.4     107.3
CAF                               -         -         0.1      2.0       1.2      -         38.1        6.7       1.7
TBRD                             23.3       -         -        -         -        -         32.0       68.0      92.0
IDA                                7.4      1.4       6.8      8.0       6.0      6.2        7.5        -         -
TDB                                8.5      5.5      19.9     25.0      10.0     35.0       66.5       73.7      13.6
Governments                         30.0     17.2      35.2     71.7      34.1     60.8      109.3       43.8     177.2
Argentina                          3.2     14.3       4.3      4.2       3.4       2.9       3.4        4.6      50.0
Czechoslovakia                     -        -         3.9      1.4       -        -          -          0.3       _
Germany F.R.                       1.7      1.4       -        -         -       28.6        -          5.2      21.7
United Kingdom                     1.4      -         -        6.8       -        -          1.0        -          -
USA                              22.7       1.5      25.3     40.0      26.5     28.8       26.9       26.3      75.5
USSR                               -        -         -       15.9       -        -          0.5        5.2      16.6
Others                             1.0      -         1.7      3.4       4.2      0.5       77.5        2.2      13.4
Suppliers' credits                  11.5      1.6       3.9     40.1      16.6      13.8      44.2       46.3      55.5
Argentina                          -        -         1.6      5.1       5.9       1.6       1.7        0.3        1.9
Belgium                            -        -         -        -         5.8      0.1        -          -          -
Canada                             -        -                  -         3.7      1.9        -          -         -
Denmark                            0.7      1.3       -        0.8       0.2      0.2        4.9        -         -
Germany F.R.                       3.9      0.3       -        -         -         -        13.6        2.8       1.3
Israel                             -        -         -        -         -         -         5.5        -         -
Italy                             2.1       -         -       26.6                           -          -         -
Japan                              -        -         2.0      6.4       -        -         10.8       19.5      10.3
Spain                              3.3      -         -        -                             -          -         -
USA                                -        -         -        1.1       0.9      1.9        2.4        -        25.2
Others                             1.5      -         0.3      0.1       0.1      8.1        5.3       23.7      16.8
Private Banks                        1,3      -        23.3     23.1       9.9     56.0       89.3      222.5     225.7
Brazil                             -        -        12.0      7.9       4.7     13.5        -         13.7        7.7
USA                                1.3      -        10.0     12.8       1.5     34.3       63.9      146.2     159.8
Others                             -        -         1.3      2.4       3.7      8.2       25.4       62.6       58.2
Other                               14.1      4.1       0.1     10.0       0.4       0.6      10.6        -         22.2
Nationalization (US )                -       78.6       ^        -         0.7       -         -          -          -
Total /2                      96.2    108.4      89.3    179.9       78.9    172.4      397.5     461.0      587.9
/1 Provisional
/2 Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source:  Central Bank, IBRD Sociat and Economic Data Division.



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1979)
-------- US$ million ------
Loan or                                                      (Amount less cancellations)
Credit #   Year    Borrower             Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                           23.3      44.6
261       1971    Bolivia        Livestock                            6.8         0.8
455       1974    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing                6.2         0.8
561       1975    Bolivia         Agriculture                         7.5         3.2
762       1978    Bolivia         Ulla Ulla Development               9.0         8.5
1121       1975    ENFE            Railways                 28.7                   0.1
1211       1976    Bolivia         Rural Development         9.5                   7.6
1238       1976    ENDE IV         Power                    25.0                   8.6
1290       1976    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing    10.0                    8.1
1324       1976    Bolivia         Water Supply and
Sewerage                5.21                 4.0
1331       1976    Bolivia         Small-Scale Mining       12.0                  11.0
1404       1977    Bolivia         Education and Voca-
tional Training        15.0                 12.9
1422       1977    ENFE            Third Railway            35.0                  21.8
1423       1977    AASANA          Aviation                 25.0                  23.3
1489       1977    Bolivia        Urban Development         17.0                  16.8
1510       1978    Bolivia         Ulla Ulla Development    9.0                    9.0
1587       1978    Bolivia         Highway Maintenance      25.0       _          25.0
Total                                  239.7      74.1
of which has been repaid                 7.5       0.9
Total now outstanding                  232.2      73.2
Amount soldl                0.1                     -
of which has been repaid    -            0.1        -
Total now held by Bank                 232.1      73.2
161.5



ANNEX II
- 26 -                    Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                            Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligator               Type of Business          Loan    Equity   Total
1973       Plasmar, S.A.           Cables and Plastic Product    0.3        0.1       0.4
1976       Banco Hipotecario
Nacional             Capital Market                           0.3       0.3
1976       Banco Industrial
S.A.                 Development Financing                    0.6       0.6
1978       Molino Andino S.R.L.  Plastic Products                  2.3       -        2.3
Total                           2.6      1.0      3.6
Repaid, cancelled or sold       1.2      0.4      1.6
Held by IFC                     1.4      0.6      2.0
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 23, 1971;
Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The credit portion of the project has been almost fully disbursed;
about US$400,000 for technical assistance remains to be disbursed and the
credit should be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
Funds originally allocated for cattle are fully committed; credit
demand for grape production has been as anticipated, whereas demand for sheep,
annual crops and sugarcane has been less than anticipated. Demand for sheep
and annual crops funds is expected to accelerate; demand for sugarcane is not
expected to materialize.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets
either having been attained or exceeded. The loan is now almost fully
committed.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8, 1976;
Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
There have been delays in the implementation of some components of
the project. Corrective measures have been taken and the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date:  August 23, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The project has recently been delayed somewhat by poor performance
of local contractors and difficulties experienced in the transportation of
a major equipment component. Overall progress of the project has been
satisfactorily.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco IndustrLal Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31 L980.
After initial delays, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government has requested that the water supply and sewerage
investments for the cities of Sucre and Potosi be cancelled inasmuch as these
cities are not prepared to proceed without substantial Government subsidies.
In spite of initial delays, the rural component of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Due to institution,al and managerial problems, the preparation of
subprojects was delayed about 15 months. To facilitate loan utilization
a number of measures were taken in mid 1978; the first disbursement under
the credit component was authorized November 1978.
Loan 1404-BO - Education and Vocational Training Project, US$15 million,
May 11, 1977; Effective Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project has experienced some delays but is now proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1422-BO - Third Railway Project, US$35 million, June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The progress of the project has been seriously impaired by
recent heavy rains and extensive floodings. A reduction in the project
scope is expected as the railways have to divert funds to repair damages.
The Bank is discussing with Government on how best to proceed.
Loan 1423-BO - Aviation Development Project; US$25 million, June 9, 1977;
Effective Date:  September 29, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project has been delayed by about nine months because of poor
weather conditions and management changes. Most components are now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1489-BO - Urban Development Project, US$9 million, November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: June 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has been delayed nine months because of slow processing
of subsidiary loan agreements. Most components are now proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan 1510-BO and Credit 762-BO - Ulla Ulla Development Project, US$9 million
each, April 6, 1978; Effective Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1587-BO - Highway Maintenance Project, US$25 million, July 10, 1978;
Effective Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Initiation of the maintenance works delayed six months because
beneficiary has to concentrate on emergency measures to repair damages to
road system, caused by heavy rains and extensive flooding. No further delays
are expected.



ANNEX III
- 29 -                      Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
Mineral Exploration Fund Project
Supplementary Data Project Sheet
Section I -. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prep,are project:  3 years
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:  Bolivia's Ministry of Mines and
Metallurgy
(c)  First presentatiorL to IDA:  March 1977
(d)  First IDA mission to review project:  July 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:  April 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:  May 25, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness: October 1979
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
IDA has obtained assurances that:
(a) t:he Decree-law creating the Fund, or its by-laws would not be
modified without IDA's agreement (para 31);
(b)  contractual arrangements for training and seminars will be
completed by the Fund according to a program satisfactory
t:o IDA, part of which has been agreed upon; the remainder
:is to be submittecd to IDA before January 1, 1980 (para. 32);
(c) t:he need for short-term consultant services would be. reviewed
by IDA and the Fund every six months (para. 32);
(d) l:he Fund would provide IDA with quarterly financial reports and
monthly progress reports (para. 32);
(e) l:he fund will use technical and financial criteria satisfactory
to IDA for the evailuation of exploration sub-projects to be
financed by IDA (para. 33);
(f)  the Fund will conitract IDA approved consultant and contractors for
the carrying out of projects (para. 34);



ANNEX III
- 30 -                      Page 2 of 2
(g) the Fund's exposure to the same mine owner will not be greater
than US$2.0 million equivalent (para. 35);
(h) all contracts will be subject to the General Conditions (para. 36);
(i)  the Fund will sign a contract with the mine owner setting out
certain conditions (para 36);
(j)  IDA will approve the contracts, including the work program, for
each project to be financed by IDA (para. 40);
(k) the Fund will not finance pilot testing plants or the rehabilitation
of processing plants unless certain conditions are met (para. 40);
(1) the Fund will furnish IDA by March 15, 1982, a report on its
operating experiences and the program for 1983-87 (para. 41);
(m)  the Fund will put into effect, before September 30, 1982, its
1983-87 program after exchanging views with IDA (para. 41);
(n) Government will contribute to the Fund according to an agreed
timetable and disbursement of IDA funds will be contingent upon
the Government being up to date in its contribution to the Fund
(para. 45); and
(o) the Fund will not contract any new debt until the Closing Date
of the proposed credit; and thereafter, unless, on the basis of
financial projections acceptable to IDA, its projected debt service
coverage is more than 1.5 and the debt/equity ratio is 1 or less.
The current ratio will be kept at all times at 1 or higher (para. 46).
Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) appointment of qualified independent auditor acceptable to IDA
(para. 32);
(b) enactment of Joint Ministerial Resolution clarifying existing
legislation (para. 36);
(c) adoption by the Fund of General Conditions acceptable to IDA
(para. 36); and
(d) putting into effect the bilateral agreement with the GTZ (para. 44).
Conditions of disbursement are:
(a) that the Government be up to date in its quarterly budgetary
contributions to the Fund (para. 45); and
(b) that after the earlier of 18 months after credit effectiveness
or when US$3.5 million of the credit has been committed, IDA
would be satisfied that the Fund has performed satisfactorily
and that the purposes of the credit will be accomplished
(para. 42).



7 _     1                                  -
tio        '         °             -W ]4      1          X            | SW5 < > 1
0-7 °  Z  ° (}s\&E2i2s&
- z    a                                                                                  D                      
c >z>  K6
z ~~~~
Ae'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1
R~~ '.                                   ,                    '   ... D..;
- RH  D0
rR                                                                                                                              Z,~~~~ ~  



