Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14662
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2179/LOAN 3260-IN)
JUNE 21, 1995
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs)
Year 1990: US$ 1.00 = Rs.17.50
Year 1991: US$ 1.00 = Rs.22.74
Year 1992: US$ 1.00 = Rs.25.92
Year 1993: US$ 1.00 = Rs.30.50
September 1994: US$ 1.00 = Rs.30.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (in) = 3.28 feet
1 Kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I Hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres (ac)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP           Andhra Pradesh
APCERP       Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project
APSEB        Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
CE           Chief Engineer
CERP         Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project
DFP          Department of Finance and Planning
GOAP         Govetnment of Andhra Pradesh
GOI          Government of India
ICAD         Inigation and Command Area Development Department
ICB          Intemational Competitive Bidding
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MFL          Maximum Flood Level
OFL          Ordinaiy Flood Level
OLC          Official Level Committee
PA           Project Agreement
PHED         Public Health Engineering Department
PMU          Project Management Unit
PWP          Project Working Plan
PRD          Panchayat Raj Department
RBP          Road and Buildings Department
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SM           Supervision mission
TA           Technical Assistance
TMC          Technical Monitoring Committee
TOR          Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2179/Loan 3260-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................                                 ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................... 1
A. Project Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                             .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                              4
D. Project Sustainability.                                                            6
E. Bank Performance.                                                                   8
F. Borrower Performance.                                                               9
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operation .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .11
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ........................ 12
1. Summary of Assessments.                                                           12
2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits.                                                      14
3. Project Timetables .15
4.     Loan/Credit Disbursements ............................................................... 15
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                      1 6
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                            1 8
7.  Studies Included in Project.                                                     1 8
8.  Project Costs and Financing.                                                     19
A. Project Costs.                                                      19
B . Project Financing .                                                22
This document has a restrincted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



9.     Economic Costs and Benefits .................................. 20
10.    Status of Legal Covenants ................................. 20
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................................  21
12.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................. 22
13.    Bank Resources: Missions ................................. 22
Appendix 1. Mission's Aide Memoire .23
Map IBRD 22568R



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2179-IN/Loan 3260-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone
Emergency Reconstruction Project (APCERP) in India, for which Credit 2179-IN and Loan 3260-
IN in the amounts of SDR126.1 million (US$170 million equivalent), and US$40 million,
respectively, were approved on October 4, 1990 and made effective on December 26, 1990. In
addition, the Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project (Credit 1665-IN/Loan 2662-IN), which
was ongoing at that time, was reformulated in September 1990 to allow use of SDR40.8 million
(US$55 million equivalent) from the credit funds to finance part of the irrigation and drainage
component of APCERP.
Both Credit 2179-IN and Loan 3260-IN were closed as scheduled on March 31, 1994
and were fully disbursed, with final disbursements on July 28, 1993 and March 4, 1994,
respectively. The funds allocated from Credit 1665-IN were also fully disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
which visited India in September 1994. It was finalized by Teresita Estoque, Operations Analyst,
Agriculture and Water Operations Division, Country Department 2, South Asia Regional Office,
and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Division Chief, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project
Advisor. The Borrower commented on the ICR Mission's Aide Memoire, and its contribution to
the ICR, in the form of an implementation completion report, prepared by the the Finance and
Planning Department of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, is available in Asia Information
Center.
Preparation of the ICR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission in
December 1993. It is based on a review of materials in the project files, field investigation, and
discussions with project staff and officials of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, and staff of the
Bank associated with the project.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2179-IN/Loan 3260-IN))
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        Andhra Pradesh (AP) is India's fifth largest state and the fourth most populous. The
State has a 1,030 km coastline on the Bay of Bengal, and two of India's largest rivers (Godavari
and Krishna) which have large irrigated deltas at their convergence with the Bay. The coastal
districts cover some of the most fertile and densely populated areas of the State. On May 9, 1990,
an extremely strong cyclone hit AP. bringing winds in excess of 200 km/hr, a tidal wave rising to
about four meters and moving up to 10 km inland in some areas, and very heavy rains over a three-
day period (300-500 mm) equal to about half of the average annual rainfall in these areas. All of
AP's nine coastal districts and one inland district, including some 5,160 villages and about 8
million people were affected in varying degrees. Almost 1,000 people were killed, with heavy
damage to infrastructure and productivity in all sectors, which in total was estimated at US$1,250
million. Extensive damage was done to both the major and minor irrigation systems; many bridges
and roads network; electricity supply, with damage to distribution transformers and distribution
lines; agricultural crops and land; cattle, sheep and goats and poultry; and fisheries where more
than 10 percent of fishing craft and 60 percent of tackle were lost or badly damaged. Also, about
1.6 million low cost houses were damaged in varying degrees. In the tribal area of Vishakapatnam
district, an isolated hilly inland area which is home to some 300,000 tribals, heavy rains did
considerable damage to the limited roads and caused landslides, some of which inflicted damage to
agricultural lands.
2.        As a result of improved awareness and emergency measures, introduced after the
1977 cyclone which killed about 10,000 people, many lives were saved. These measures included
improvement in the early warning system and evacuation procedures, raising the height of the tidal
bank, building cyclone shelters and introducing vegetative coastal shelter belts. Following the May
1990 cyclone, the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) launched emergency rescue and relief
operations, including assistance for repair of houses, food and utensils, and assistance for the
rehabilitation of agricultural lands. Urgent reconstruction of the breaches in rivers and canals and
desilting operations also began. In addition, the emergency works undertaken included repairs of
most urgent roadways where this was possible, reconstruction of the electricity network, and
temporary rehabilitation of public buildings, water and sewerage. Due to resource constraints,
however, the work was going at a slow pace and more important, frequently lacked the
engineering under pinning necessary to ensure good quality.
3.        The Bank's assistance strategy to India has been to support policies and investments
that would encourage economic growth and poverty alleviation in a context of macro economic
stability. An increasingly important element of the strategy has been to promote sustainable
programs, especially in agriculture, that would promote and enhance the natural resource base. In



iii
the context of the May 1990 cyclone disaster in AP, the Bank with its wide experience in the
sectors to be reconstructed, decided to provide the resources and technical support to ensure that
the necessary reconstruction investment was accelerated and implemented in the most efficient
way, with adequate attention to quality. The scale of the disaster, both on human life and
productive assets, and its significant effect on the poor, was such to warrant special and urgent
support by the Bank. It was in the context of the above situation that the Bank quickly processed
and approved APCERP as an emergency operation, with implementation within a three year
period.
Project Objectives
4.         Objectives. With GOAP and local voluntary organizations having carried out the
immediate relief activities and emergency repairs, the Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency
Reconstruction Project (APCERP) was designed to basically assist three types of objectives:
physical, institutional and planning. The physical objectives were to be achieved through
reconstruction operations in cyclone affected areas which would lead to the accelerated restoration
of damaged assets and lost productivity, in particular, of the weaker sections of the cyclone
affected population, as well as to the mitigation against future similar disasters. The institutional
objective aimed at strengthening capabilities of GOAP agencies in cyclone preparedness and
mitigation. The planning objective was to be the catalyst for a complete update of previous surveys
and studies with a view to develop a "Delta Plan" for irrigation modernization in the Krishna-
Godavari delta and in the coastal areas to the north of the Godavari, including water management
and flood/cyclone protection and mitigation measures.
5.         Project components, with the related percentage of total base costs shown in brackets,
were as follows:
(a) Irrigation and Drainage (34 percent). Reconstruction and rehabilitation of the
irrigation and drainage systems in the delta areas, covering over one million hectares,
and the upland portion of districts in the affected areas;
(b) Roads and Bridges (28 percent). Reconstruction and repairs of the most urgent of
about 13,000 km of state and 12,000 km of rural roads damaged by the cyclone,
about 100 km of road embankments, and related bridges and culverts damaged in
varying degrees, with particular attention to stabilizing slopes and repairing roads in
hilly tribal areas;
(c) Cyclone Shelters (2_percent). Construction of additional shelters needed in the
most vulnerable areas;
(d) Electricity (12 percent). Repair and strengthening of over 1,000 km of 33 kv and
11 kv electricity transmission systems;
(e) Agriculture Including Fisheries (7 percent). Provision of credit to cyclone victims
to assist in the removal of sandcasting, the rehabilitation of horticultural crops
including nurseries, facilities for inland fisheries, the replacement and repair of fishing
boats and tackle, the repair of damaged ports, and to support the administration of the
PMU;



iv
(f) Rural Water Supply (3 percent). Construction of headworks outside the flood
prone area for distribution to those villages most vulnerable to flood induced
contamination;
(g) Municipal Services ( percent). Reconstruction of municipal roads, drains and
water supplies in selected municipalities;
(h) Public Buildings (2 percent). Reconstruction and repair of high school,
elementary and primary schools, and medical buildings;
(i) Coastal Shelter belts (2 percent). Establishment of nurseries for the rehabilitation
of damaged plantations and expansion of the belt over the most vulnerable areas;
(j) Housing (3 percent). Assistance to coastal dwellers in the repair of their damaged
houses; and
(k) Technical assistance (4 percent). Provision for technical studies to develop a plan
to modernize water management in the delta and upland river areas;
consultant services, training and equipment for the disaster awareness program;
support to NGOs in tribal development initiatives and in the fishing communities; and
additional staff to be engaged for the purposes of carrying out the project.
6.        Changes After Appraisal. During implementation the physical targets for irrigation
and drainage, roads and bridges, municipal services and electricity components were substantially
increased. This was possible mainly because of savings in local currency arising from the
devaluation of the Indian Rupee against the US Dollar and of the US Dollar against the SDR.
Also, additional funds were reallocated to the above components from allocations originally
earmarked for other slow disbursing components, on recommendations of the Project Management
supported by the Bank supervision missions. In particular, the technical studies for developing a
plan to modernize water management in the Krishna-Godavari delta and land and water resource
management in the coastal area to the north of the delta were not carried out and the funds
earmarked for the purpose were also reallocated.
7.        Credit/Loan Covenants. The only special creditlloan covenant required GOAP to
increase the allocations for operations and maintenance of the State's affected irrigated areas by at
least 80 percent of the present level. The allocations have been increased by only 33.3 percent
causing concern about the post-project maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure
reconstructed or rehabilitated by the project.
8.        Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project was designed as the Bank's quick
response to the GOIIGOAP's request for urgent assistance for implementation of the May 1990
cyclone emergency reconstruction and mitigation program It was based on the sound foundation
that the Bank's involvement not only would provide resources and technical support to ensure that
the necessary reconstruction and rehabilitation of the infrastructure and the restoration of
productivity is accelerated and implemented in the most efficient manner, but would also include a
long-term program for mitigation, such as the modernization of the deltas and a comprehensive
water management program. Thus, the project objectives were clear and important to: (a) urgently
repair and restore the assets and productivity damaged/lost by the May 1990 cyclones; (b)
strengthen institutional capabilities in cyclone preparedness and mitigation; and (c) provide an



v
updated plan for modernization of irrigation and drainage in the Krishna-Godavari delta and other
costal areas of AP. However, as stated earlier (para. 6 above), the technical studies for developing
the updated plan were not carried out.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.         The physical and institutional objectives of the project have been substantially
achieved and important physical indicators show that achievements have generally exceeded
respective original targets. Project implementation was initially slow, but accelerated rapidly once
the project's institutional foundation was firmly established and the progress thereafter was in
accordance with the planned implementation schedule, with the main exception of dredging which
is expected to be completed by the end of 1994. A few sub-components that will not be fully
implemented are the Panchayat Raj infrastructure, the coastal shelter belts and the fisheries credit
due respectively to shortage of funds, human encroachment and original optimistic target. Further,
the sustainability of the infrastructure rehabilitated, particularly the irrigation and drainage works,
is uncertain due to inadequate financial allocations for maintenance (see para. 7 above). As a result,
although maintenance systems and organizations are in place, the necessary funds are not available.
GOAP needs to address this aspect as a priority. The project's planning objective has not been
achieved as the studies on which the plans were to be based have not been carried out (para. 6)..
Consequently coordinated follow-up programmes for the development of the project area as well as
for protection and mitigation against future cyclone/floods, cannot be initiated. Overall, however,
project implementation proceeded well and with good results.
10.        The funds under the Bank loan and IDA credits were disbursed almost as planned.
Actual project expenditures until July 31, 1994 were US$367.0 million and were expected to
increase to US$399.4 million at completion, on December 31, 1994. This is about 26 percent
higher than the President's Report (PR) estimate at US$380 million. Project costs were financed
by Credit 2179-IN, Loan 3260-IN, Credit 1665-IN and the GOI/GOAP in the amounts of
US$173.7 million (PR estimate US$170.0 millionl/), US$40.2 million (PR estimate US$40
millionl'), US$55.1 million (PR estimate US$55.0 million) and US$130.4 million (PR estimate
US$115 million 2/) respectively. GOI/GOAP contribution includes US$98.0 million spent until
July 31, 1994, and the remainder committed and to be spent by end-December 1994.
11.        Key factors that greatly helped achieve the major project objectives were: (a) the
suitability of the project design which gave priority to actions that would ensure a quick resumption
of economic activity and would provide relief to greater number of people, with particular reference
to the weaker sections of the population; (b) the GOAP's full commitment to the project as
demonstrated by the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU) within the Finance and
Planning Department with project-dedicated wings in the main line departments/agencies concerned
1  /      Difference due to changes in SDRIUS$ and US$/Rs exchange rates during the duration of the project,
and/or changes in the US$/Rs exchange rate during the time of Bank disbursement and GOAP's
receipt.
2 /       GOAP spent much more than it originally intended in terms of Rs. This is not obvious from the
figures, due to the strong depreciation of the Rs against the US$ during implementation, i.e.
Rsl2,517 million actually spent (including the expenditure still to be incurred) against the PR
estimate of GOAP contribution of Rs6,650 million (not given in the PR, but calculated by the
mission on the basis of the PR's exchange rate and GOAP's contribution in US$ in the PR).



vi
with project implementation, and by timely releases of counterpart funds; (c) the effectiveness of
the PMU, which closely monitored quality control of works before payments were made to
contractors, adhered to agreed procurement procedures and promptly followed up on requests for
disbursement of funds; (d) the adoption of relatively simple and flexible procurement procedures
and the special training provided to the concerned PMU staff; and (v) the very nature of the project
which was an emergency operation geared to reconstruct and rehabilitate damaged assets and
retrieve lost productivity and which, therefore, commanded strong political support at all levels.
12.       Both the Bank and the Borrower cooperated and performed well throughout the
project cycle. The Bank took the lead in dimensioning and designing the project in a flexible
fashion (including the technical and quality control aspects) which proved an appropriate response
to the emergency situation. The project approach of supporting rapid reconstruction and immediate
mitigation measures while preparing plans for longer term modernization, mitigation and protection
works was sound, but design of the planning component was somewhat weak in that work plans
for mobilization and execution of the planning studies were not clearly defined. Bank supervisions
were conscientiously carried out and problems encountered dealt with efficiently. The main
weakness concerned the delay in altering GOAP's view of the need for early mobilization of
technical resources for the two delta studies. Both the PMU and the other implementing agencies
managed the project efficiently and performed well. However, lack of any significant financial
provision for the maintenance of the extensive drainage works improved under the project gives
particular cause for concern.
13.       The project outcome is rated as "satisfactory". In fact, if the project's planning
objective had been achieved by completion of the two important technical studies (Part IVITable 7),
the project's outcome could have very well been rated as "highly satisfactory".
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
14.       The project design responded well to GOI/GOAP expectations and the urgent needs of
the affected people, and therefore, GOAP was fully committed to project implementation which
was carried out efficiently. The quality of infrastructural works carried out by the project is
impressive, but these works form only part of infrastructural systems which require further
improvement and expansion if they are to be sustainable in the long term. This is particularly
important for flood and tidal banks and drainage systems which form the main physical protection
and mitigation measures against flood and cyclones. The continuing inadequacy of maintenance
funding for existing works threatens their sustainability, and the failure to identify coordinated
follow-up programs for development, protection and mitigation in the project area means that a
high risk of future disasters continues to exist.
15.       Following discussions with GOAP authorities, they took full cognizance of two
shortcomings, namely, (a) inadequate financial allocations for maintenance of project works,
particularly irrigation and drainage infrastructure; and (b) non-completion of technical studies for
the delta and other coastal areas. It was agreed, therefore, that all departments/agencies involved in
reconstruction and rehabilitation works of the project would be advised to submit itemized and
costed maintenance plans so that adequate financial provisions could be ensured. GOAP
authorities also agreed to advise the Bank of the actions proposed to be taken to complete the two
technical studies. Compliance with the above two aspects would need to be pursued. In the
immediate future, investments should be concentrated on completion of the upgrading started under
the project, particularly of drainage and associated structures.



vii
16.       The main lessons for future emergency operations learnt from the experience of this
project are: (a) for any project to be successful as this project, the project design should be fully
responsive to government expectations and people's needs by giving priority to actions which
ensure quick restoration of economic activity and which benefit the largest numbers of affected
people; (b) if certain technical studies are considered crucial to provide updated plans such as for
modernization of water management in the delta and upland river areas under this project, special
covenants in the credit/loan documents should be included to stipulate a timetable for the
preparation of TOR, recruitment of consultants, commissioning and completion of the studies and
submission of draft reports, in order to impress upon the government the importance attached by
the Bank to the studies and the need for their timely execution; (c) implementation performance is
enhanced when PMU is established in the Ministry or Department of Finance and separate project
dedicated wings are set up within other implementing departments/agencies; (d) delays are
minimized when procurement procedures are simple but appropriate (in this case LCB and post-
qualification for a large number of small contracts); (e) adequate financial allocations for operation
and maintenance are a must in the interest of sustainability of project supported investments; and
(f) firm borrower's commitment provides a sound foundation for efficient project implementation.






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Credit 2179-IN/Loan 3260-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The project was to assist in: (a) reconstruction and rehabilitation operations in the areas
affected by the May 1990 cyclone, including the restoration of assets and productivity lost and/or
damaged, and a program for the mitigation of future similar disasters; and (b) strengthening
institutional capabilities in cyclone preparedness and mitigation. The project was also to be a
catalyst for a complete update of previous surveys and studies carried out on water management
issues affecting the delta area, with the view to develop a "Delta Plan" for the modernization of the
deltas which would have enormous economic impact on the State. This was to be accomplished
through two Water Management studies (see Part II, Table 7).
2.    Activities comprising the project were summarized in a set of Project Working Papers
which were consolidated into a Project Working Plan (PWP)I covering 11 components: irrigation
and drainage; roads and bridges; cyclone shelters; electricity; agriculture and fisheries; rural water
supply; municipal services; public buildings; coastal shelter belts; housing; and technical assistance
(TA), including incremental staff salaries. Both the housing and public buildings, and the coastal
shelter belts components, were to be fully financed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GOAP). The PWP identified physical targets for many components based on preliminary
estimates of damage. In some components, particularly irrigation and drainage, the damage could
not immediately be estimated and targets could not be clearly specified2(see para. 7).
3.    During implementation the physical targets for irrigation and drainage, roads and bridges,
municipal services and electricity components were substantially increased. This was possible
mainly because of savings in local currency arising from the devaluation of the Indian Rupee
against the US Dollar and of the US Dollar against the SDR. Also, additional funds were
reallocated to the above components from allocations originally earmarked for other slow
disbursing components, on recommendations of the Project Management supported by the Bank
supervision missions. In particular, the technical studies for developing a plan to modernize water
management in the Krishna-Godavari delta and land and water resource management in the coastal
area to the north of the delta were not carried out and the funds earmarked for the purpose were
also reallocated.
1     In lieu of Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
2     The PWP was prepared within three months after the occurrence of the cyclone.



2
4.      The physical and institutional objectives of the project, namely, restoration of infrastructure
and productive assets, and strengthening institutional capabilities in cyclone preparedness and
mitigation, were clear, realistic and of the highest priority. A degree of unclarity existed as far as
the mitigation program is concerned, particularly in flood protection works where the improved
standards to be adopted would only be clarified after completion of the Water Management studies
(included under the TA component) which were intended to address inter alia flood protection and
control issues3.
5.      The project's planning objective to provide an updated plan for modemization of irrigation
and drainage in the Krishna-Godavari delta and other coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh was also
clear and had a sound foundation. However, the importance of this objective was perhaps not so
clearly perceived and appreciated within GOAP, in view of its less tangible character and the
component accounting for only 1.5 percent of total project cost. With the benefit of hindsight, it
may have been appropriate to include special covenants in the credit/loan documents to stipulate a
timetable for the preparation of the Terms of Reference (TOR), recruitment of consultants,
commissioning and completion of the studies and submission of draft reports, in order to impress
upon GOAP the importance attached by the Bank to the timely execution of the studies.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.      Overall, the objectives of the project have been substantially achieved. The most important
elements of public infrastructure, comprising of irrigation, drainage and flood protection systems,
roads, water supplies and electricity distribution systems have been restored, usually to much
improved standards. These improved standards will increase the reliability of the systems during
future emergencies and, together with direct mitigation measures such as cyclone shelters,
considerably alleviate the impact of future cyclones. The rehabilitation of public infrastructure has
facilitated private initiatives to restore productive assets and, particularly through the irrigation and
drainage components, has restored and improved land productivity4. The effectiveness of
institutional capacity in cyclone preparedness and mitigation has been improved by the project,
particularly by the provision of radio equipment. However, as already noted (para. 5 above) the
3       A particular example is water management of Kolleru Lake. The PWP proposed implementation of works
which would allow control of its level, specifically an outfall regulator, together with improvements to flood banks on
inflowing channels and increased capacity of its only outfall, the Upputeru. However, design criteria for these works were
only available in the form of recommendations of the Mitra Committee (1965), which the delta plan was intended to update.
This resulted in the following recommendation of the final (December 1993) Supervision Report (Annex 4, Table 6,
No.l 1): "The land use pattern of Kolleru Lake is changing fast with the result that Mitra Committee's recommendation on
the basis of which some vital parameters of the drainage network which falls into the lake had been fixed, no longer holds
good. For assuring the drainage efficiency. these parameters require updating and corrective measures are to be taken for the
works already implemented."
4       Improvements to the delta drainage systems are reported to have resulted in a 15 percent increase in
paddy yields.



3
long-term planning objective was not achieved5 and, in the absence of updated plans, rational and
coordinated programs for development, protection and mitigation can still not be initiated in the
cyclone affected areas.
7.      Achievement of the physical targets indicated in the PWP has been considerable and in
several components has exceeded those originally planned (see Part II. Table 5). A component not
yet completed is the dredging of drains6, which was programmed for completion by the end of
1994. The targets set for a few sub-components that will not be fully achieved pertain to the
Panchayat Raj infrastructure, the coastal shelter belts and the fisheries credit due respectively to
shortage of funds, human encroachment on shelter belts, and original optimistic target due to non-
registration of fishermen and fishing boats at that time.
8.      In some components, physical targets could not be clearly specified in the PWP because of
lack of adequate infornation on which to base them. As a result, targets were estimated in early
Borrower's progress reports but were frequently modified throughout the course of the project.
While this reflected an element of flexibility which was essential to the success of the project, it
required careful management and supervision to ensure optimum allocation of resources between
competing demands in the various components. The main subject of concern in this respect is
drainage structures where targets were repeatedly reduced7. By the end of the project, it was
estimated that 203 outfall structures required urgent reconstruction, and up to 2,142 new drain
junction structures were required8. As damage resulting fiom the failure, particularly of outfall
structures, could be considerable and would threaten much of the infrastructure rehabilitated by the
project, the low priority allocated to these structures is iiot understood.
9.      Generally, the standard of works achieved was high, with considerable attention paid to
quality control. Works were designed and constructed to appropriate Andhra Pradesh, Indian or
5       Delays were experienced in preparing terms of reference (TOR), which were finally done for the more
important delta study by consultants under Trust Fund arrangements in November 1992. There was considerable debate on
the suitability of the TOR in the context of PWP objectives for the studies with the result that, by the time consultants had
been selected, there was inadequate time to complete even the first phase of a truncated study.
6       Although the dredgers procured complied with specification, lack of experience in their operation,
together with difficult soil conditions, resulted in slower output than anticipated with 30 percent of the work outstanding at
the end of the project. Dredging is continuing and programmed for completion by December 1994.
7       The PWP did not set a target for the number of structures to be repaired. improved or replaced under the
drainage component of the project in the Krishna-Godavari Delta but, in view of the fact that many are up to 140 years old
and of the intention to increase drainage capacities, a major structural program was implicit. The supervision mission of
October 1992 reported that a program of 440 irrigation and drainage structures had been proposed in addition to 16
previously agreed. The supervision mission of April 1993 reported that the proposed structures for modification had been
reduced to 145, including 14 major irrigation structures. The reduction in the number of structures requiring attention from
over 440 to 127 was reportedly based on inspection of their condition and on an evaluation of their capacities to pass the
increased design discharges.
8       "Maintenance of Drains in the Krishna-Godavari Delta". CE CERP, ICAD, 1994.



4
international standards. In advance of completion of the planning studies, design criteria were
decided in consultation with a Technical Monitoring Committee (TMC) which was established
particularly for the irrigation, drainage and roads componentLs of the project. With the exception of
works associated with Kolleru Lake (see para. 4), these criteria were usually complied with.
However, an exception is the design of certain drains to flow above ground level at both ordinary
and maximum flood levels9. In addition to inhibiting drainage from adjacent lands there is the
danger of significant damage should their embankments fail10.
10.    No economic impact analysis was carried out and included either in the Project Working
Plan or the President's Report because the project was an emergency operation and designed to
reconstruct and rehabilitate damaged assets and retrieve lost productivity. For this reason, and
because no data on project induced production and other benefits was collected during project
implementation, the Implementation Completion mission could not attempt any economic impact
assessment. However, the project was successful in ensuring quick resumption of economic
activity through completion of most of the planned infrastructural works.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
11.    A key factor that greatly helped achieve the major project objectives was the suitability of
the project design which responded well to GOIVGOAP aspirations and the needs of the affected
people. This in turn ensured GOAP's full commitment to project implementation. The significant
decline in the value of the Rupee against the dollar11 and the slight decline of the dollar value
against the SDRI2 during the project had a substantial positive impact on achievements, both in
offsetting higher than estimated costs for work components and in allowing significant increases in
physical targets in most components.
12.    Land acquisition procedures in India are generally slow and frequently subject to prolonged
litigation. This adversely affected the drainage component particularly where efforts were directed
to by-pass land disputes in the interest of meeting physical targets, and, as a consequence, certain
9       Drainage design criteria were reported to be that Ordinary Flood Level (OFL) should be at or below ground
level and that Maximum Flood Level (MFL) could be up to 0.6 m above ground level. The Maximum Flood has an estimated
25 year return period, whereas the Ordinary Flood is arbitrarily defined as 50 percent of the maximum with no return period
attached. Although a complete check of all drains was not made, it was observed that reaches of the Kollinera Major Drain
were designed with an MFL up to 2.0 m above ground level and an OFL up to 1.0 m above ground level.
1 0    It is usual practice in AP not to compact drain embankments but to provide additional fill to promote
natural consolidation. Under normal design conditions this has proved successful, but where maximum flood levels are
considerably above ground level this practice has resulted in high (approx. 5 m) uncompacted banks which are susceptible
to damage by gulling and slippage, particularly in the early years before natural consolidation takes place.
1 1    The average US$ exchange rate increased from US$1 = Rs.17.50 in 1990 to Rs.30.50 in 1993.
1 2    The average exchange rate of the SDR increased from SDR1 = US$1.36 in 1990 to US$1.40 in 1993.



5
drains were constructed to inadequate width and will therefore flow above ground level (see
para. 9). An associated factor related to land shortage was people's encroachment onto land
reserved for coastal shelter belts which prevented their restoration on the scale originally envisaged
(see para. 7).
13.   Particularly in the early stages of the project, considerable opposition was raised by District
Irrigation Boards to canal closures which were necessary to allow construction of drainage and
irrigation works. This had a significant adverse effect on the progress and logical programming of
works and initially delayed the overall effectiveness of the drain improvements. Eventually this
problem was overcome once the farmers were convinced through demonstration that the
disadvantages of temporary closures were outweighed by the resulting benefits.
14.   Procurement procedures agreed by the Bank for civil works comprised local competitive
bidding (LCB) for a large number of relatively small contracts together with post qualification of
bidders, rather than international competitive bidding (ICB) for a small number of large contracts
together with pre-qualification of bidders. The adoption of relatively simple and flexible
procurement procedures had a significant positive impact on achievement of the project's physical
targets.
15.   Due to its very nature, the project enjoyed strong political support at all levels, which
undoubtedly has contributed to the success of the project.
Factors Generally Sub-ject to Government Control
16.   The establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU), particularly in the Department
of Finance and Planning (DFP), with responsibility for procurement, coordination and monitoring
of all components in financial as well as physical terms, allowed the works to be carried out in a
timely and orderly manner with the flow of funds corresponding to planned and incurred
expenditure. The linkage of the PMU through the Official Level Committee (OLC), comprising
Secretaries of all departments participating in the project with the Cabinet Committee headed by the
Chief Minister, proved very effective. Also, the establishment of special Wings, specifically
responsible for project activities in the main implementing departments such as the ICAD, the Road
and Buildings Department (RBD), the Panchayat Raj Department (PRD), the Andra Pradesh State
Electricity Board (APSEB) in the Energy Department, and the Public Health Engineering
Department (PHED), with adequate staff and resources, contributed to the high levels of
achievement and generally excellent quality of work.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
17.   Day to day management of the project by the PMU was excellent and a major factor in its
high level of achievement of physical targets. The PMU closely monitored quality control of
works before payments were made to contractors, adhered to agreed procurement procedures and
promptly followed up on requests for disbursement of funds. A notable feature of the project was
the motivation of staff and their pride in their achievements.
18.   The failure to undertake the Water Management studies (see Part II, Table 7) for the deltas
and coastal rivers was influenced by a number of factors. Initially, the studies were not allocated
high priority because of the understandable concentration of effort on mobilizing urgent physical



6
rehabilitation works, as well as a degree of reluctance to initiate the studies due to the sensitivity of
the issue of water allocations between the states sharing the river basins. When the TOR for the
delta studies were finally prepared at Bank insistencel3, their appropriateness was severely
criticized by the TMC although its arguments were, to some extent, self-contradictoryl4.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.    The physical works reconstructed by the project comprised components of irrigation and
drainage, and road systems, and other public infrastructure which had suffered damage during the
cyclone, but which were already in a poor condition prior to the cyclone, largely because of
previous neglect of maintenance. All relevant departments have organizations and systems to
identify, specify and supervise maintenance works, which are usually carried out by contractors.
However, with the exception of APSEB, none has adequate financial allocations and this, in many
cases, has led to disillusionment of maintenance staff and the breakdown of inspection procedures.
The Project Agreement (PA - Section 2.07) attempted to ensure adequacy of funds for future
operation and maintenance of the important irrigation and drainage component by committing
Andhra Pradesh to increasing the funding of irrigation maintenance from Rs.75 to about Rs. 1 30/ha
by the end of 1993. This covenant was not entirely fulfilled as the rate was only increased to
Rs. 100/ha. Furthermore, as irrigation and drainage works are funded separately the covenant had
no impact on maintenance allocation for the important drainage sub-component of the project which
is at present Rs.7.5/ha (Rs.3/ac)15. Estimated financial requirements are Rs.310/hal6 for drainage
1 3     TOR acceptable to the Bank were eventually prepared by consultants under trust fund arrangements in
November 1992. Because of the limited time then available to complete the study before the credit closing date of March
31, 1994, a study duration of up to 12 months was proposed instead of the three years envisioned in the PWP. The scope of
work was correspondingly reduced.
1 4     The TOR were reviewed by the TMC which, in its quarterly report dated March 31, 1993, recommended
that a study based on them should not proceed. Among the reasons given were that the TOR substantially reduced the scope
of work and study area in comparison with the PWP and changed the basic study method from the SRS/GIS technique
proposed in the PWP to a mathematical modelling approach. On the other hand, TMC also expressed reservations on the
advisability of the extent of the study and the applicability of the SRS/GIS techniques as proposed by the PWP. At the same
time the TMC queried the need for certain elements included in the TOR and considered the estimated costs to be very high.
It therefore recommended that studies based on the PWP approach should be tried on a very small pilot area and that the
remainder of funds be allocated instead to the purchase of telemetry and radio equipment for improved water management.
1 5     A drainage cess was introduced in 1968 at a rate of Rs.20/acre and, by 1991, was increased to an average
of Rs.401ha (range Rs.30-50/acre depending on location). In real terms this was a significant decrease being the equivalent
of half a bag of paddy in 1968 and less than one fifth of a bag at today's prices. However, the purpose of the cess was
improvement of the drainage systems and the levy for maintenance purposes was established at Rs3/acre in 1985 and has so
far not been changed. ICAD is considering to propose (instead of a monetary cess) a cess in kind i.e. half a bag of rice. This
would compensate for the inflation factor.
1 6     Estimate provided by the ICAD Chief Engineer, CERP.



7
works and Rs.200/ha (at 1991/92 cost levels)17 for irrigation works. Similarly, inadequacies in
maintenance budgets for roads were reported by engineers of both the Roads and Building
Department (RBD) and the Panchayat Raj Department (PRD). GOAP is well aware that
sustainability of the project works would be in jeopardy unless adequate funds are allocated for this
purpose. It agreed to advise all departments/agencies involved in project reconstruction and
rehabilitation works to submit itemized and costed maintenance plans so that adequate financial
provisions could be made. This aspect would need to be pursued with GOAP.
20.    Beneficiary participation in maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works is restricted to
payment of the cess which, because of the project, are being paid more willingly than in the past.
However, the construction of field drains and their inlets is the responsibility of farmers and is not
well organized in the absence of farner organizations at tertiary level. It is felt that operation and
maintenance of both irrigation and drainage would benefit from the establishment of farmer groups
as has been proposed by the National Water Management Program (see Part II. Table 2 -
Credit No. 1770-IN).
21.   A possible apprehension related to the sustainability aspect of the project is the fact that the
project has not followed a process of staged handover of works to the regular line
departments/agencies responsible for maintenance and, as a result, a maintenance backlog of up to
three years has developed. This is apparent in drain earthworks, which are particularly susceptible
to damage, and significant deterioration has already taken place in some reaches. The maintenance
of drain outfalls into the sea may also prove problematic as the sea-going dredging equipment
proposed in the PWP has not been procured. A handover procedure is now apparently being
arranged and should include joint inspections by the implementing entity and the entity accepting
maintenance responsibility, to identify the physical and funding requirements needed to rectify the
maintenance backlog and complete minor works.
22.    The long term sustainability of the irrigation systems reconstructed/rehabilitated under the
project could be threatened by competing demands on water resources. For this reason a more
efficient use of available water will be necessary. More immediately, there is a need to make
decisions on investments in tidal and flood protection works. The proposed Water Management
studies (see Part II, Table 7) could have provided a suitable basis for this, as there is some concern
on their security as constructed]8. It is therefore important that the studies are carried out in order
to prepare the long term program of modernizing irrigation and drainage and flood/cyclone
mitigation works in the delta and coastal rivers which would help to ensure sustainability.
1 7    Estimate for Andhra Pradesh of the Vaidyanathan Committee reporting to GOI in 1992 and based on
actual operation and maintenance requirements of 15 major and four medium schemes.
1 8    The project has restored tidal banks as protective measures against salt water intrusion as an interim
measure. However, the banks will not withstand wave attack associated with cyclone-induced surges. The requirements,
costs and benefits of strengthening the banks to resist cyclonic conditions requires evaluation. Only 25 percent of the river
flood banks in the Krishna-Godavari delta have been raised to withstand floods equivalent to that of 1986 (the worst on
record). ICAD estimates the cost of completing the works at Rs. 5,500 million. However, detailed studies to allow design of
the works, reliable cost estimates and justification of the investment have not been carried out. These would have been an
integral part of the proposed Delta Water Management Study.



8
23.   There may be repercussions on the sustainability of the project due to a major follow-up
investment GOAP has planned for the rehabilitation and improvement of the minor drains in the
Krishna-Godavari delta and of the medium and minor drains in the Pennar deltal9. It was reported
that Rs.510 million are to be allocated for this purpose in the financial years 1994/95 and 1995/96.
While this work is essential to the efficient operation and the sustainability of the existing drainage
system, further considerable investments in the following aspects are necessary to ensure
sustainability: (a) ensuring the adequacy of embankments in all reaches of drain flowing above
ground level and investigating the requirements for improvement of the system to reduce drain
water levels below ground level; (b) increasing the intensity of the drainage system, particularly the
installation of field drains and field drain outlets20, (c) repair or replacement of damaged and
inadequate outfall structures; (d) repair or replacement of cross drainage structures; and (e)
purchase of sea-going dredger.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Project Formulation. The project concept was sound. The approach of supporting rapid
reconstruction of infrastructure and productive assets while carrying out immediate mitigation
measures, and preparing a plan for long-term mitigation and modernization of the deltas combined
an appropriate response to the emergency with the provision of a suitable basis for longer term
sustainable development of the affected areas. The Bank team, comprising 20 members covering
all relevant disciplines, undertook a satisfactory and innovative project formulation to meet an
urgent need which was also consistent with Government's development priorities and the Bank's
strategy for India.
25.    Due to the nature of the project, a rapid and simple response was necessary. This was
largely achieved by including the most urgent but also relatively uncomplicated reconstruction
activities, and allowing the necessary flexibility to permit adjustments in priorities within and
among the components as they became clearer with progress in implementation. Moreover, as
inadequate time existed during formulation to evaluate the technical aspects in detail, provisions
were made to compensate this and ensure adequate quality of works by the inclusion of the TMC in
the project. Finally, because of the rapidity of the whole formulation process, a Staff Appraisal
Report was not prepared and was replaced by the PWP; this procedure has had no drawbacks
whatsoever.
26.   Possible problems/risks recognized at the design stage concerned the managerial
complexity of the project because of its multi-sectoral nature and the large number of participating
agencies involved, and delay in implementation which has been a common event in India. Hence,
together with GOAP, particular attention was given to the establishment of effective management
and monitoring systems and to procurement procedures to minimize these risks.  These
responsibilities, and that of coordination, were appropriately assigned to the Department of Finance
1 9    Works under the project were restricted to major (draining more than 51.2 kiM2) and medium (draining
12.8-51.2 km2) drains in the Krishna-Godavari delta and to major drains in the Pennar delta. Minor drains, serving less than
12.8 km2, were not rehabilitated.
20 The overall intensity of drainage is 10.2 m/ha whereas requirements were estimated in the PWP at 40 mi/ha.



9
and Planning (DFP) in which the Project Management Unit (PMU) was set up, which in hindsight,
was crucial and an excellent project design feature.
27.    However, although an attempt was made to ensure adequate future funding of irrigation
maintenance (PA 2.07), this did not extend to other components, particularly drainage and
flood/tidal protection works21. As it must have been apparent that the poor condition of
infrastructure was more a result of previous neglect than of the cyclone, more stringent conditions
regarding maintenance would have been appropriate especially in view of the importance of the
flood and tidal banks and the drainage system in cyclone protection and mitigation. Inadequate
attention had been given during formulation to arrangements for mobilizing and executing the
technical studies component. This component was envisaged by the PWP to require a three-year
duration which corresponded with the proposed project duration. However, the time required to
prepare and agree on the terms of reference, invite and review proposals, and select consultants,
was overlooked. A detailed program for these activities, identifying actions required by specific
GOAP agencies and by the Bank was necessary. It is, however, recognized that due attention to
address this weakness may have been difficult under the compelling emergency circumstances
existing during formulation.
28.    Supervision. During the course of the project seven supervision missions were mounted
(see Part II, Table 13). All aspects of supervision were conscientiously carried out, progress was
generally adequately reported and problems addressed with a considerable amount of flexibility. A
weakness was the delay in alerting the GOAP to the lack of action on the "Delta Studies" and,
despite frequent reminders, the failure to persuade GOAP to pursue these22. The composition of
the supervision missions was usually appropriate. There was continuity in mission composition,
but, in view of the considerable importance of drainage, irrigation and flood protection
components, it might have been more appropriate if the Task Manager for this project was an
irrigation engineer.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.    Project Formulation. GOAP cooperated with the Bank well in preparing the project. The
management systems established jointly with the Bank were innovative and appropriate and the
linkages with decision makers ensured a continued high level of commitment.
30.    Project Implementation. Overall implementation of the project has been highly
satisfactory. The PMU coordinated implementation most effectively and ensured that works were
2 1    It is possible that the separate funding system for irrigation and drainage works operating in AP was not
appreciated at the time of formulation. However, it should have been appreciated that even the level of maintenance funding
proposed under PA 2.07 would be inadequate for the magnitude of works involved in the project and their susceptibility to
damage. Furthermore, no attempt was made to ensure adequate maintenance of other components such as roads, bridges and
water supplies.
2 2    Despite the studies being proposed for a three-year duration in the PWP, the need to prepare terms of
reference for them was not raised until the third supervision mission of November 1991. The issue was raised by every
subsequent supervision mission but the TOR were not prepared until November 1992 when it was too late to complete the
studies, as envisaged in the PWP.



10
carried out in a timely and orderly manner and that the flow of funds corresponded with planned
and incurred expenditure. The allocation of counterpart funding was timely and adequate,
monitoring was carried out efficiently, and reporting was satisfactory. There were only a few
procurement issues which were usually quickly resolved. No extensions of the Credit/Loan were
required as they were entirely disbursed before project closure. Funds allocated under Credit 1665-
IN were fully disbursed just after its original closing date of June 30, 1994. The performance of
the main implementing agencies -- ICAD, RBD, PRD, PHED and APSEB -- was also highly
satisfactory.
31.   The only significant weakness of GOAP was the failure to undertake the planning studies
and to meet covenanted obligations regarding irrigation maintenance funding. These may have
serious adverse implications on the sustainability of the rehabilitation and mitigation measures
undertaken by the project and on future development of the project area.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   The project achieved all objectives except for one and met most of its targets inspite of the
fact that the original targets in respect of more important works (irrigation and drainage, roads and
bridges, and electricity) were increased significantly during project implementation. The project's
outcome is rated as "satisfactory". In fact, if the project's planning objective had been achieved by
completion of the two important technical studies (Part II, Table 7), the project's outcome could
very well have been rated as "highly satisfactory".
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
33.   It should be noted that operation and maintenance organizations already exist for the road,
irrigation and drainage, and electricity components, and other systems of public infrastructure
covered by the project. Consequently, new operational and maintenance organizations do not need
to be established. Rather, existing organizations, systems, and financing allocations, in particular,
need to be reviewed to ensure their adequacy.
34.   It is accepted by GOAP that maintenance of the works reconstructed or repaired by the
p,roject is of considerable importance, as their previous lack of maintenance was a greater cause of
deterioration than the cyclone damage. However, at the time of the ICR, itemized and costed
maintenance plans for all components, together with proposed methods of funding, have yet to be
prepared.
35.   It is recommended that the Bank follow up the following issues:
-     Initiation and execution of the water management studies for the delta and other
coastal areas (Part II, Table 7) to ensure that they meet the requirements of the PWP or revised
objectives as may be agreed.
-     As far as possible the Bank should persuade GOAP to allocate adequate funds and
resources for the maintenance of all the infrastructure reconstructed under the project and, in
particular, attempt to ensure that equipment is provided for dredging of drain outfalls to the sea. It
should also attempt to ensure that all outfall structures in the Krishna-Godavari delta are
rehabilitated or replaced.



I1
36.   There is a need for considerable further investments in both flood/cyclone mitigation
measures and the modernization of irrigation and drainage systems in the coastal areas of Andhra
Pradesh. However, the identification of physical requirements and their costs, together with
economic and social justification, is dependent on the contents of the plans to be prepared on the
basis of the Water Management studies that are still to be carried out.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Key lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a)          For any project to be successful as this project, the project design should be
fully responsive to government expectations and people's needs by giving
priority to actions which ensure quick restoration of economic activity and
which benefit the largest numbers of affected people;
(b)          If certain technical studies are considered crucial to provide updated plans
such as for modernization of water management in the delta and upland river
areas under this project, special covenants in the credit/loan documents
should be included to stipulate a timetable for the preparation of TOR,
recruitment of consultants, commissioning and completion of the studies
and submission of draft reports, in order to impress upon the government
the importance attached by the Bank to the studies and the need for their
timely execution (see para 5);
(c)          Project procurement procedures comprising LCB and post-qualification for
a large number of small contracts minimizes the delays usually associated
with ICB procurement of larger packages. Although this results in a more
complex coordination and management task, it is generally more effective
(see para. 14);
(d)          The establishment of an effective PMU (responsible for coordination,
monitoring, procurement, channelling of funds to implementing agencies,
and indirectly for quality control) in the Ministry of Finance (in this case
DFP) enhances project performance and the probability of success. This
lesson was drawn and applied already by GOAP, as is evident by the recent
decision to continue the PMU in the DFP on a permanent basis and to
extend its responsibility to all externally funded projects in AP (see para.
16);
(e)          The establishment of separate project-dedicated wings in the main
implementing agencies, particularly ICAD, RBD, PRD, PHED and
APSEB, ensures that project activities are given special attention and kept
detached from the routine departmental activities (see para. 17);
(f)          Firm Borrower's commitment provides a sound foundation for efficient
project implementation.



12
PART IT: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(/)         (V)          (/)          V)
Macro policies                      Ei            i        E              O
Sector policies                    Li          Li            aE
Financial objectives                 i         Li           L i
Institutional development                      L            Li           Li
Physical objectives                            Li           Li           Li
Poverty reduction                    i            i           i          [
Gender issues                      Li          Li           Li
Other social objectives            L           L            Li           E
Environmental objectives                       Li           L            Li
Public sector management           Li          Li           Li
Private sector development        Li              i         L            [3
Other (specify)                      i            i           i          [
B. Proiect sustainahility            Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
(f)          (/)         (/)         -
Hiehlv
C. Bank performance                satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
O/)          (/)         ()
Identification ./                    i         L            L
Preparation assistance                         L            Li1
Appraisal                                                   Li 
Supervision                        W           L            L
/ Not applicable (emergency project).
cont'd/....



13
H~ighly
D. Borrower performance              satisfactorv   SatisfactorT    Deficient
(/)           /)          O/)
Preparation                        7                         El
Implementation                     O                        Liii
Covenant compliance               LI                         E C|
Operation (if applicable)         L            El25
Hiehhy                                      hi
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory  Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactor
D/ Did not carry out proposed Delta studies resulting in non-achievement of one of the project objectives.
2/ One important covenant was not complied with, i.e., to raise the cess related to irrigation maintenance
by 80% by December 31, 1993.
In terms of funds allocated to maintenance.



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits 1/
Loan/credit title            Purpose            Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Godvari Barrage       Construction of modern           1976         Closed in June 1981.
Project                barrage to replace very old
(Cr. 532-IN)           weir to enable diversion of
irrigation water to the
distribution system in the
Godvari estuary delta to
continue functioning.
2. AP Irrigation and     To accelerate the                 1976         Closed in June 1985
CAD Composite          construction of the
Project (AP I          distribution canal network
Irrigation)            to make use of the water
(Ln. 1251-TN)          impounded in Nagarjun
Sagar Reservoir including
the field channel network
beyond minor canal outlet
down to farm level.
3. AP Second Irrigation   Modernise and complete           1986         Closed on June 30, 1994
Project (AP II Irrig.)    irrigation network of
(Cr. 1665-IN and       165,000 ha and extend it by
Loan No. 2662-IN)      another 163,000 ha.
4. National Water         To increase productivity         1987        Closed on March 31, 1995
Management Program    and farm incomes in
(Cr. 1770-IN)          existing irrigation schemes
by means of a more
reliable, predictable and
equitable irrigation service.
5. Upper Krishna         To develop the irrigation         1989         On-going.
Irrigation Project      potential of the Upper
(Cr. 2010 IN and       Krishna River.
(Ln. 3050-IN)
Following operationzs - No related Loans or Credits
l/ Concerns only loans/credits for national projects in India and for state projects in Andhra Pradesh.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle               Date planned          latest estimate
Preparation/Appraisal                         June/July 1990 I/    June/July 1990
Negotiations                                  August 27, 1990      August 27, 1990
Board presentation                            October 4, 1990      October 1990
Signing                                       October 23, 1990     October 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                 October 31, 1990     December 26, 1990
Project completion                             December 31, 1994   December 31, 1994
Loan closing 2/ CERP (Ln. 3260/Cr. 2179)      March 31, 1994        March 31, 1994
AP 11 Irrig. (Cr. 1662)        June 30, 1994        June 30, 1994
/ Due to its very nature, the project was not identified as such and preparation/appraisal was undertaken
in one exercise. There was no official SAR, only a President's Report dated September 18, 1990.
2/ Ln. 3260 and Cr. 2179 for this project closed as planned on March 31, 1994. Cr. 1665, for AP
Irrigation 11, of which US$55 million was reallocated to the Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Proiect.
was closed on June 30, 1994, but final credit disbursement took place on August 24, 1994.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
[                                             FY'91        FY'92        FY'93        FY'94
| Appraisal estimate for:
Cr. 2179-IN and Ln. 3260-IN                 40,000      80,000       140,000     210,000
Cr. 1665-TN reallocation                     5,000      25,000        45,000      55,000
Actual for:
Cr. 2179-IN and Ln. 3260-IN                 33,860      92,100       191,500     210,000
Cr. 1665-IN reallocation                         -       6,000        14,200      55,000
Actual as % of estimate:
Cr. 2179-IN and Ln. 3260-IN                  85%         115%          137%        100%
Cr. 1665-IN reallocation                         -        24%           10%        100%
Final disbursement date for Cr. 2179-IN: July 28, 1993.
Final disbursement date for Ln. 3260-IN: March 4. 1994.
Final disbursement date for that portion of Credit 1665-IN reallocated to the CERP: July 11, 1994



16
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I .  INDICATORS IN SAR/PRESIDENT'S REPORT 2/                  LUnits    Estimated    Modified           Actual 3/
Irrigation and Drainage                                                                                                  4
1.  Strengthening of Tidal/Flood Banks (Major Irrig.)             km            50          175.59           167.17       5
2.  Improvement to Tanks (Minor Irrigation)                       no.          200          196              180
Roads and Bridges
3.  State Highway                                                no.           138          764              764
4.  "New" Bridges                                                 km            59           58               57
5.  Cyclone Shelters                                             no.           187          183              182         5
Panchayati Raj Infrastructure                                                                                            71
6.  Roads                                                         km           577       3,468.5           3,116
7.  Irrigation Tanks                                             no.         1,200        1,086            1,043
8.  "New" Comprehensive Water SuppLy Scheme                       no.            12           -               10
MunicipaLity Services
9.  Municipalities                                                no.            26          51               51
10. Roads Metalled                                                km           185          149.48           149.48
11. Roads Metalled on Black Topped                                km           200          183.50           183.50
12. "New" Road Drains                                             km           120           95.97            95.97
Horticulture
13. Nurseries                                                    no.            10            -               10
14. "New" Nurseries                                              no.             4            .                4
15. Credit Provided                                              RsM         1,123          103.0            102.3       8
16. Area covered by Credit                                        ha        14,000      15,208            15,208
Agriculture
17. Removal of Sand Cast                                          ha         3,000       6,294             6,294
Fisheries
18. Surveys of Dept.                                             RsM             0.05         -                0.052
19. Gear for Dept.                                               RsM             14.00                        13.96
20. New Marine Boatyards for Dept.                               RsM              1.00        -                 1.00
21. Fish Farms of Dept.                                          RsM              5.00        -                0.86      9
22. Departmental Properties                                      RsM             11.80        -                1.76      9
23. Technical Assistance of Dept.                                RsM              2.10        -                0.56
24. Improvement of Ports                                         RsM              3.00        -                3.00
25. Credit for Boat Repair                                       RsM         6,000.00         .           -3,860.00
26. Credit for "New" Boats                                       RsM         4,000.00                        171.00
27. New Catamarans                                               no.         5,000.00         .              744.00
28. New Gear                                                     no.        38,000.00                      5,552.00      9
29. New Brackish Water Ponds                                      ha         4,086.00                        472.00
30. New Freshwater Ponds                                          ha         6,383.00         -            3,329.00      9
Forestry
31. Coastal Shelter Belt                                          ha        12,180.00   4,700.00           4,809.00
32. Seedling Production                                         M bags           39.00        2.04              2.04
Electricity
33. "New" 132 Kv lines                                            km             50.00      275.00           275.00
34. "New" 132/33 K sub-station                                    no.             3.00       12.00             12.00
35. "New" 33 Kv lines                                             km           495.00       643.00           643.00
36. "New" 11 Kv lines                                             km           581.00       713.00           713.00
cont'd/...



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation'/
It.  MODIFIED INDICATORS IU/                                  Units    Estimated    Modified           Actual
Irrigation and Drainage
1. "New" Bridges                                               no.             5.00        3.00             2.00
Roads and Bridges
2. Bridges                                                      no.            2.00         -               2.00
Panchayati Raj
3. Rural Water Scheme                                           no.          330.00                       275.00
Electricity                                                                                                          12
4.  Underground 11 Kv Cabtes                                    km            49.00         .              45.00    1
5.  11 KY, 48 Cables                                            km            49.00       94.00            79.90    12
III. OTHER INDICATORS i5/                                     Units  Estimated   4odified                Actual
Irrigation and Drainage
1.  Canals (major)                                              km           639.69        N.A.           630.82
2.  Structures (major)                                          km            12.00        N.A.             7.00
3.  Major Drains                                                km         1,600.54        N.A.         1,587.32
4.  Medium Drains                                               km         1,451.63        N.A.         1,384.96
5.  Dredging                                                    km            87.57        N.A.            31.67
6.  "New" Structures                                            no.           56.00        N.A.            29 .00
7.  Structures                                                  no.           83.00        N.A.            60.00
8.  CanaLs (medium)                                             km            74.37        N.A.            74.37
9.  Structures (medium)                                         no.           19.00        N.A.            19.00
10. Rural Roads                                                 km            33.46        N.A.            33.46
Panchayati Raj Infrasructure
11. Bridges                                                     no.           25.00        N.A.            25.00
municipal Services
12.  Water Supply Scheme                                        no.           74.00        N.A.            74.00
Forestry
13.  Strip Plantations along Roads                              km           508.00        N.A.           508.00
Electricity
14.  "New" 331111Kv Sub-Station                                 km            50.00        N.A.            50.00
15.  Underground LT Cables                                      km            50.00        N.A.            49.00    12
16.  LT, AB Cables                                              km            95.00        N.A.            80.00    12
1/   Nearly all indicators refer to improvement or repairs; those that refer to new constructions are marked as "new".
2/   Since no SAR had been prepared, key implementation indicators were taken from the PWP as well as from the President's
Report.
3/   UntiL August 31, 1994.
4/   To be completed by November 1994.
5/   To be completed by December 1994.
6/   To be completed by October 1994.
7/   Balance could not be completed due to shortage of funds.
8/   Credit not fully disbursed since farmers financed second and third year of development out of pocket.
9/   Targets were over-estimated due to lack of boat and pond registration at appraisal time.
10/  New indicators specified during implementation.
ii/  To be completed by March 1996.
12/  To be completed by September 1994.
13/  New indicators never specified, but reported regularly in progress reports.
Note: N.A. = Not applicable.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable for thlis project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined                        Impact
Study                         at appraisal               Status     of study
1. Water Management Study of   - To develop a computer aided    To be started l/  N/A
the Krishna-Godavari Delta     and fully com-prehensive land
and water resources data base,
using modern satellite remote
sensing and geographic
information system (SRS/GIS)
techniques.
- To develop a fully operational
flood warning and management
system using the above SRS/GIS
database.
- To prepare a master plan for
improved water management in
the Krishna-Godavari-Pennar
deltas including all aspects of
land recla-mation and drainage
engineering, irrigation
management, coastal, river and
delta development. This Delta
Plan would also identify a
programme of investment
projects.
2. Land and Water Resource         To develop an integrated and    To be started 2/ - N/A
Management Study in the        optimal surface and ground-
Coastal Area North of the      water development plan to meet
Godavari Delta.                 the rapidly increasing drinking
water supply, irrigation and
industrial requirements in a
more sustainable and
dependable manner than has
been possible so far.
/   The study was envisaged in the PWP to be of three years duration. Considerable delays were
experienced in preparation of TOR, which were eventually drafted by consultants under Trust Fund
arrangements by November 1992. In view of the limited time available before closure on June 30 1994,
these TOR were appropriate for a truncated (12-month) study only. Although acceptable to the Bank,
it took some time to obtain GOAP's agreement to the TOR, which have not yet been finalised. It was
then proposed to carry out a first (7 month) phase of study but, as funds had been reallocated to other
components, no contract was signed and the study did not start although consultants were shortlisted.
Nevertheless as finally proposed, the study would not have fulfilled the objectives envisaged in the
PWP.
2/   Overlooked.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USS million) 1    Actual/latest cstimate (USS million)2'
Source                    Local       Foreign                    Local        Foreign
costs       costs       Total         costs          costs        Total
1. Irrigation and Drainage                   99           12         111         135.610          2.316     137.926
2. Roads and Bridges                          74          19          93         117.775          0.691     118.466
3. Cyclone Shelters                            4            1           5          4.303              -       4.303
4. Electricity                                32           8          40          59.187          2.269      61.456
5. Agriculture and Fisheries                  20           4           24         10.498              -       10.498
6. Rural Water Supply                          8            1           9         12.487              -       12.487
7. Municipal Services                          8           2           10         11.612              -      11.612
8. Incremental Staff Salaries                 13            -          13         19.789              -      19.789
9. Public Buildings                           6            1           7           0.784              -       0.784
10. Coastal Shelter Belts                     6             -          6           1.683             -        1.683
11. Housing                                   10            -          10         18.378             -       18.378
12. Technical Assistance                      7            6           13          1.364         0.660        2.024
Physical Contingencies                        25           3          28               -              -
Price Contingencies                           9            2           11
TOTAL                                        321          59          380     393.47031           5.936   399.4063/
11 Source: President's Report dated September 18, 1990.
2/ Source: PMU.
3/ Actual cost until 31 July, 1994 was USS366.969 million, of which USS361.033 million in local currency, no further foreign exchange
is expected to be spent through project completion by December 31, 1994.
Table 8B: Project Financing 1/
Appraisal estimate (USSM)                Actually financed (USSM)
Source                     Local        Foreign                     Local       Foreign
costs        costs        Total         costs         costs       Total
IDA Credit No. 2179-IN                  122.000       48.000      170.000        169.412       4.298      173.710 2/
IBRD Loan No. 3260-IN                   29.000        11.000       40.000        38.693        1.466      40.159 3/
IDA Credit No. 1665-IN                  55.000           -         55.000        55.111          -        55.111 41
(11 AP Irrigation Project)
Government of Andhra Pradesh            115.000          -        115.000        130.254       0.172      130.426 5/
TOTAL                                 321.000        59.000      380.000       393.470        5.936     399.406
1/ On basis of PMU data.
2/ According to WB data tl.is should be USS174.900 million.
3/ According to WB data thtis should be USS40.000 million.
41 According to WB data this should be US$56.328 million.
5/ This is the latest estimate. GOAP has actually spent USS97.989 million up to July 31, 1994 and has committed itself to spend
another USS32.437 million until December 31. 1994.



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Beneflts
Not applicable, see para. 10 of Part I.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
INDIA
Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project
Covenant    Present         Original             Description of
Agreement        Section       type        status     fulfilment date            covenant              Comments
DCA        4.01 (a) (i)       A           C                       The Borrower shall maintain
sound records and accounts
reflecting expenditures.
DCA.       4.01 (a) (ii)      A           C               -       The Borrower shall ensure that
records are retained until at least
one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last
withdiawal from the Credit
Account was made.
DCA.       4.01 (a) (iii)     A           C              -        The Borrower shall enable the
Association's representatives to
examine such records.
DCA.       4.01 (b) (i)       A           C              -        The Borrower shall have the
records and accounts reflecting
expcnditures and those in the
Special Account audited.
DCA        4.01 (b) (ii)      A           C               -       The Borrower shall furnish, not
later than nine months after the
lend of each year the audit report.
PA        2.07               F          CP           12/31/93    Andhra Pradesh shall increase the Allocations
allocations for operations and   -increased by
nmaintenanice of its affected   33.3% only.
irrigated areas by at least 80% of
its present level.
cont'd/...



21
Covenant    Prcsent        Original             Description of
Agreement        Section       type       status     fulfilment date            covenant             Comments
PA.       2.08              M            C              -        Andhra Pradesh shall manage,
monitor and evaluate the progress
of the Project through the PMU.
PA.       2.09              M            C              -        Andhra Pradesh shall fumnish
semi-annual reports on the
progress of the Project.
PA.       3.01 (a)          A,j          C                       Andhra Pradesh shall maintain
sound records and accounts
relecting expenditures of the
departments and agencies
responsible for the project.
PA.       3.01 (b) (i)      A            C              -        Andhra Pradesh shall have the
records and accounts audited in
accordance with appropriate
auditing principles.
PA.       3.01 (b) (ii)     A            C              -        Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to
the Association, not later than
nine months after the end of each
such year a copy of the audit
re'Port.
status:
C    =   Covenant complied with.
CP  =   Complied with partially.
Coenant Type:
A    =  Accounts/audits.
F    =   Facilities maintenance.
M    =   Monitoring/reviews.
I    =   Institutional (involving other than project coordination units).
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance witlh any applicable Bank Operational Manual stateient
(O/D or OP/BP) was discovered.



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                             Revised                            Actual
Stajge of                 Weeks                US$              Weeks              US$             Weeks             US$
Through appraisal                    N.A.               N.A.              N.A.              N.A.              42.2            NA.
Appraisal-Board                      NA.                NA.               N.A.              NA.                 4.6           NA.
Board-effectiveness                  NA.               NA.                N.A.              NA.              NA.              NA.
Supervision                          NA.                NA.               NA.               NA.               74.2            NA.
Completion                             18              NA.                NA.               NA.               14.0 V/   NA.
TOTAL                                                                                                      135.0            NA.
/ FAO/CP contribution only.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                 Specialized      Implemen-   Develop-
Stage of                      Month/          of       Days in      staff skills      tation        ment      Type of
project cycle                     year        persons      field     represented        status     objectives   problem
May-July 1990     N/A         N/A    FA(2),GA.EE(2)
Through appraisal                                                                EC.AG.FP.HS.
IE/DE(2).RE(2)
WE.PR.L,S.FO
Appraisal through Board approval            July-Oct.1990                                                _ -
Board approval through effectiveness        Oct-Dec 1990
Supervision                                 Nov. 1990           7          5      FA.EC,AG.IE.,RE,        1            1 -        M
AD. E
April 1991          7         9      EC,AG(2),1E,RE,         2            2          M,T
PR,FA
Oct. 1991          7          11     AG,EE.DE.iE,RE,         2            2         MT.F
PR.FA
March 1991         7          13     AG.EE.OERIE.            1            1           T
RE,PR,FA
Oct. 1992          7          13     AG.EE,DE.IE,RE,         1            1           T
___________                 ~~~PR,FA
May 1993           7          12     AG,EE.DE.IE.RE.         1            1           T
I          I           PR.FA
Dec.1993           6          16     FA.EE.DE.RE.PR.         1            1           T
Completion                                  Sept.1994                      2      EC,IE
FA - Financial Analyst: GA - General Adviser: IE = Irrigation Engineer: EC - Economist, AG - Agriculturalist: FP * Fishery & Ports Expert;
HS - Housing Expert: EE - Electrical Engineer: RE * Roads Engineer: WE - Water Engineer: PR - Procurement Expert:  L - Lawyer:
S - Sociologist: FO - Forester: AD - Administrator; ME - Management Expert: DE - Drainage Engineer.
21 M - Management: F - Financlal: T - Technical.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
(Cr.2 179-IN/Ln.3260-IN)
Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.       The ICR Mission comprising Mr. D.J. Lens (Economist/Mission Leader,
FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program) and Mr. C. Chapman (Civil Engineer,
Consultant) visited Andhra Pradesh from 12-26 September, 1994 in accordance with
Terms of Reference dated August 17, 1994 to: (i) assess the implementation of the multi-
sectoral emergency project APCERP; (ii) in retrospect solicit the Borrower's views on
the same; and (iii) if required, prepare a schedule of follow-up actions for effective
operation and maintenance of relevant Project components.
2.        The Mission held meetings with officials of the Departments of Finance and
Planning (DFP), Irrigation and Command Area Development, Roads & Buildings,
Energy (State Electricity Board), Panchayat Raj, Forests, Fisheries, Agriculture, and
Public Health Engineering. It also undertook field visits to project works in five of the
nine coastal districts comprising the project area.
3.        This Aide-Memoire reflects the views of the Government of Andhra Pradesh
(GOAP) and the Mission on: (i) the implementation of each component under
APCERP; (ii) the status of the operation plan, including maintenance, regarding the
project investments put in place under the project; and (iii) necessary actions to be taken,
particularly those needed to ensure sustainability.
APCERP Objectives
4.        The objectives of the project were to restore public infrastructure damaged
in the May 1990 cyclone; assist in the repair and restoration of private assets; strengthen
institutional capabilities in cyclone preparedness and mitigation; and provide an updated
plan for modernization of irrigation and drainage in the delta and coastal areas of the
state.



24
INDIA: Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Eniergency Reconstruction Project
Implementation Compiection Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Mcmnoire
Implementation
Project Management Unit (PMU)
5.        The PMU, which was established in the DFP, was responsible for co-
ordination, procurement and monitoring of the implementation activities of all APCERP
components. In addition, it set up a Technical Monitoring Committee (TMC), procured
Radio-HAM Equipment through National Institute of Amateur Radio and granted these
to the District Collectors, recruited technical assistance consultants and arranged for
procurement training for its own staff.  Finally, it had to arrange for the Water
Management Studies to be carried out under the Project. All this was to be financed out
of the Technical Assistance Component of Rs290M.
6.        Mostly due to not having carried out the Water Management Studies, which
were to cost Rs100M, the original allocation was reduced to Rs56M, which was spent.
The balance of Rs234M was reallocated to the Drainage and Electricity components
which were in dire need of funds to carry out the works planned. Overall execution, for
which PMU was responsible, has been outstanding and the decision to reallocate the
Water Management Study funds to project works with a more tangible and immediate
impact may not be correct, but is understandable. PMU is fully aware of this "fault pas"
and making all efforts to obtain funds from elsewhere to carry out the study as soon as
possible.
Irrigation and Command Area Development Department (ICAD)
7.       ICAD responsibilities included extensive drainage, major irrigation, flood
protection and tidal protection works, which formed the largest and most -technically
complex components of the project. Because of this, a Chief Engineer was appointed
to manage the CERP wing in ICAD which was established at the start of the project to
carry out ICAD's work under APCERP. Works classified as medium (2,000-10,000 ha)
and minor (40-2,000 ha) irrigation were managed by existing Chief Engineers of the
regular departmental establishment. One of the main functions of the TMC was advice
on design criteria and standards of these components.
8.        Because of delays in posting of staff, difficulties of land acquisition, problems
in arranging canal closures and the need to reject unrealistically high tenders, the works
got off to a slow start. Subsequently, these problems were resolved and excellent
progress was made with the result that the extent of works was increased to include,
inter-alia, major drainage in the Pennar Delta. These additional works were the main
reason for a revision in funding allocation from Rsl,903M to Rs3,626M (excluding
equipment, consultants and contingencies). Of this, Rs3,305M have so far been spent
and the remainder will be used for completion of outstanding items, particularly
dredging, where about 20% of the final target remains to be completed (see pages 1-3



25
INDIA: Andhlra Pradesh Cyclone Emcrgcncy Rcconstructioni Project
Iniplenientation Completion Rcport
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Mcmnoire
of the attached tables). Although the dredgers procured by the project accorded to
specification, lack of experience in their operation, together with difficult soil conditions,
resulted in slower output than had been anticipated. Completion is, however, eXpected
by December 1994. Overall, the management of the difficult ICAD component of the
project has been exemplary.
9.        Stringent measures have been taken to ensure acceptable quality of works,
which is generally excellent. However, earthworks, whether in embankments, drains or
canals, require frequent maintenance and there is evidence of deterioration, particularly
in works carried out in the early stages of the project. A process of handover of
completed works for maintenance by regular units has not been adopted with the result
that a maintenance backlog of up to three years has developed.
10.       Important elements of this component of the project, which were not
undertaken are the Water Management Study of the Krishna-Godavari Delta and the
Land and Water Resource Management Study of the Coastal Area North of the
Godavari Delta. It is apparent that hesitation on the studies resulted from a lack of
consensus on their usefulness to the project. The Krishna-Godavari study in particular
was intended as a major three-year exercise to identify long-term water management and
damage mitigation requirements for the delta, which would only have been completed
by the end of the project.
11.       However, throughout the course of the project it was necessary for
management to take decisions on design criteria for works included in the project. These
decisions were taken in consultation with the TMC, of necessity on the basis of
inadequate detailed technical investigations. In particular, the works carried out in the
Kolleru Lake basin, such as improvements to the Thammileru, Budameru and Upputeru
channels, should have been based on a comprehensive water management plan for the
basin. This has resulted in a recommendation by the last supervision mission that
corrective measures are to be taken up for the works already implemented on the basis
of updated design parameters. This can only be done on the completion of the Water
Management Study.
12.       The Project Working Plan (PWP) proposed the procurement of equipment
to carry out reconstruction work and, more importantly, to be available for emergency
interventions. Although eight mini-dredgers have been procured, seaworthy dredgers,
as proposed by the PWP have not; problems in maintaining tidal drain outlets may
therefore be experienced.



26
INDIA: Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project
Implementation Compiction Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memnoire
Roads and Buildings Department (RBD)
13.       RBD has completed all works for which it was responsible under the project
(state roads, bridges and cyclone shelters). Original targets were revised upward for
roads (138 to 764 km) and bridges (59 to 60), and reduced for the cyclone shelters from
187 to 183. The standard of works is generally good and all construction faults have
been rectified.
14.      The total original fund allocation for this component (excluding equipment,
Bailey bridges and contingencies) increased from Rs748M to Rs1,792M mainly due to
additional works, higher tender premiums, price increases and more detailed costing than
originally prepared. Actual expenditure was Rsl,765M (see page 4 of the attached
tables).
15.      A recommendation made by the last Supervision Mission and not yet
followed through, was to establish the overall costed maintenance plan for the 764 km
of road upgraded under APCERP. It was agreed that RBD would attend to this at the
earliest.
Panchayat Raj Department (PRD)
16.       PRD has also completed their reconstruction contribution to CERP, i.e.
minor irrigation which was reduced from 1,200 to 1,084 tanks, rural roads which
increased from 577 to 3,116 km, comprehensive rural water supply schemes (CRWS),
which was reduced from 12 to 10, and the improvement of rural water supply schemes
(RWS), which decreased from 330 to 275. The decrease in tanks for minor irrigation
was caused by the fact PRD repaired breached tanks only: the originally, intended
strengthening of bua1ds was considered as superfluous, and cancelled by PRD. Again, the
standard of works is high.
17.      The original total cost (excluding equipment and contingencies) for the
component of Rsl,420M was increased to Rs2,018M to cover additional road works. The
increase was also due to more accurate costing than originally undertaken, higher tender
premiums and price increases. Actual expenditure was Rs2,182M; the increase was due
to contract price escalation (see table attached).
Public Health Engineering Department (PHED)
18.       PHED  fulfilled its responsibility under the CERP in all respects i.e.,
improvement of municipal roads, the construction of road drains and the improvement
of municipal water supply. During implementation the original target for most of these
works increased. The main reason was the fact that at appraisal, GOAP suggested that
APCERP cover 51 municipalities, but the Bank Mission decided to reduce this to 26.



27
INDIA: Andhra Pradcsh Cyclosoc Emergency Reconstruction Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Mcmoire
An early Bank Supervision Mission reinstated the original programme since the total
amount of work in the 26 municipalities had been significantly over-estimated. Finally,
a total of 333 km of roads were improved, 96 km of road drains installed and 74 water
supply schemes improved.
19.       The original cost allocation of the PHED component of Rs202M increased
to Rs335M due to the additional work and higher tender premiums than anticipated.
Actually spent was Rs331M (see page 5 of the attached tables.)
Horticulture Department (HD)
20.       HD  was responsible for the rehabilitation of ten existing nurseries,
construction of three new nurseries (including buildings) and one coconut seed garden
(including buildings) to support the programme for replacement of fruit trees damaged
by the cyclone. In addition, long term credit was also to be provided to farmers for
planting a variety of fruit trees (mango, citrus, coconut, cashew, etc.) on about 14,000 Ha.
which was later revised to 15,208 ha. The nurseries and coconut garden have now been
established; not all credit was used since many farmers brought in their own funds for
second and third year maintenance of the trees. Nevertheless, the final target area of
fruit trees has been rehabilitated at a cost of Rs133M, which is within the original cost
target of Rs144M (excluding contingencies), (see page 5 of the attached tables).
Repayment of the credit is to start in 1997.
Agriculture Department (AD)
21.       AD was in charge of assisting in the removal of sand cast on the land by
means of credit channelled to small and marginal farmers in the project area. The
original estimated cost allocation for this component of Rs45M was exceeded; actually
Rs51M was spent for clearing sand over 6,294 ha, which was equal to the final target.
The original area targeted had been 3,000 ha (see page 5 of the attached tables). This
increase in funding was due to an under-estimate of the area covered by sand.
Fisheries Department (FD)
22.       FD was responsible for the implementation of the fisheries component of the
project which was not successful when compared with the original targets, which were
excessively over estimated. The main reason for this was the large over-estimate of
numbers of boats and ponds lost/damaged at the time of appraisal due to lack of data
as no registration existed for boats or ponds at the time.
23.       The credit that was to be disbursed also encountered the usual problem of
lack of sufficient collateral. Nevertheless, the three ports that needed to be improved
have been put back in place. The balance of Rs236M of the original fund allocation of



28
INDIA: Andhra Pradcsh Cyclonc Enmer,cncy Reconistrtiction Project
Implenientation Completion Report
Appcndix A: Mission's Aide Memnoire
Rs3O8M was distributed over other more dynamic APCERP components (see page 6 of
the attached tables).
Department of Forest (DOF)
24.       DOF re-established the cyclone damaged coastal shelter belt acreage
originally covered by a large number of trees. The original target of 12,180 ha was
reduced to 4,809 ha due to human encroachment. Subsequently, the target area was
reduced again to 4,700 ha due to slow progress and need of funds by other more dynamic
components in APCERP. In the end 4,800 ha of shelter belts were re-established. As
a result, the original allocation was eventually reduced from Rs111M to Rs5OM, of which
only Rs47M was spent (see page 7 of the attached tables). The main issue regarding this
component concerns the lack of funds for protecting the shelter belt improved under
APCERP. Presently available DOF funds cover only the cost of one security guard per
5,000 ha instead of one per 25 ha for new plantations and one per 250 ha for established
plantations, as actually required. It was noted that this component was entirely funded
by GOAP which indicated that it would look into this particular problem.
Energy Department (Electricity Board - EB)
25.       The EB has successfully implemented the electricity component of APCERP.
It is also the only entity participating in APCERP, which has a full annual maintenance
plan for which it has adequate funds. Its works under APCERP included strengthening
of transmission lines and establishing of sub-stations. The original target as set out by
GOAP as well as the fund allocation under CERP have increased. The latter nearly
doubled to Rsl,560M. So far Rsl,524M have been spent (see page 8 of the attached
tables).
Conclusion
26.       So far as implementation of APCERP is concerned, the project has been a
great success. The works have been carried out in a timely and orderly manner and the
flow of funds has corresponded with planned and incurred expenditure. There were only
a few procurement issues which were quickly resolved. No extensions of the Credit/
Loan were required since they were entirely disbursed before project closure. Credit
2179 and Loan 3260 were disbursed before their closure on March 31, 1994, while the
funds allocated for APCERP under AP II Irrigation Project Credit No.1665 were
disbursed before its closure on June 30, 1994.
27.       With the exception of one, all objectives have been substantially achieved and
the extent of works completed has significantly exceeded original targets in most
components. However, a start has yet to be made in the proposed planning of irrigation
and drainage modernization. The proposed planning exercise included two components;



29
INDIA: Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Rcconstruction Project
Implementation Compiction Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Mcmoire
a Water Management Study of the Krishna-Godavari Delta and a Land and Water
Resource Management Study in the Coastal Area North of the Krishna Delta. The
former study was also intended to cover the Pennar Delta. Although not immediately
obvious from their titles, the studies were intended to identify strategies for flood
management, including works necessary for flood mitigation after completion of the
emergency reconstruction. This aspect of the studies was possibly not fully realized by
GOAP and, despite being pressed by successive Bank Supervision Missions, little action
was taken until late in the project, when inadequate time and funds remained to
complete the studies.
28.       The studies as originally proposed would have had little influence on the
reconstruction and improvement works carried out under the project, but would have
provided a firm basis for investment in longer term mitigation measures. This is
particularly important in the case of flood protection works, which have in the past been
improved to provide a degree of safety over and above the last disaster. However, a
detailed analysis of flood occurrences, routing and management is essential to allow the
design, social and economic justification of works necessary for long term reliable
protection. The lack of such an analysis has already resulted in a degree of uncertainty
concerning water management of Kolleru Lake and will prove a severe constraint on
future flood mitigation measures in the Godavari, Krishna and Pennar Deltas, as well
as along the coastal rivers to the north of the Godavari.
29.       Several agencies have been involved in project implementation in various
sectors but, in terms of cyclone/flood protection and damage mitigation, the works under
ICAD are of the greatest importance and particular attention has been paid to them by
the mission. Generally the planning, co-ordination and supervision of ICAD works has
been excellent and achievements impressive. However, some potential problem areas
have come to light as follows:
The project has adopted the usually accepted practice in AP of not
compacting drain embankments, but of providing sufficient additional
fill to promote natural consolidation.  Under normal design
conditions, with ordinary flood levels below ground level and
maximum flood levels at most 0.60m above ground level, this has
proved successful. However, certain reaches of drain in the project
area are designed with maximum flood levels up to 2.Om above
ground level, and this has resulted in high (approx 5m) uncompacted
flood banks which are susceptible to damage, particularly in the early
years before natural consolidation takes place. Failure of such banks
would inundate large areas of farm land.
The adequacy of structures out falling into the rivers, the sea or
larger drains which flow above ground level has been reviewed by



30
INDIA: Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Erner.cncy Rcconstruction Projcct
Implementation Coniplction Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
the project. However, this was done in the context of a perceived
limited availability of funds and, as many of the structures are up to
140 years old, may have been over-optimistic. The failure of such
structures would result in significant damage.
The project has rehabilitated and improved tidal banks as protective
measures against saltwater intrusion as envisaged in the PWP.
However, the banks have not been designed to provide protection
under cyclonic conditions as this was considered a long term
mitigation measure outside the scope of the project.  The
requirements, costs and benefits of strengthening the banks to resist
cyclonic conditions should be evaluated, possibly as part of the Delta
Water Management Study.
Finally, the lack of sea dredging capability, because suitable
equipment was not procured, could lead to reduced capacities of
drain sea outfalls with consequent backing up and flooding in the
farming areas.
30.       On a positive note, it is encouraging that GOAP has agreed to provide
adequate funds for the rehabilitation and improvement of the minor drains in the
Krishna/Godavari deltas and for the medium and minor drains in the Pennar Delta,
which were not included under APCERP. This will not only allow full effectiveness of
the drainage systems, but represents an acknowledgement by Government of the
importance of drainage, which has been adequately demonstrated by increased paddy
production over the past two years.
31.       No economic nor cost efficiency assessment of the APCERP could be made
at this point, since no data are available. Neither did the Work Plan prepared by the
appraisal contained such assessments. APCERP was an emergency project and the
Bank's Work Plan for the project was considered by the Bank and GOAP as the
substitute of the SAR. Meanwhile PMU has initiated an Impact Evaluation Study on the
suggestion of the Bank. The contract for the study has been signed with CESS and it is
to be completed by the end of the year, which may be in time for inclusion in the GOAP
contribution to the ICR.
Operational Plan
32.       Operation Plans of the investments realized under the APCERP and required
by the Bank are similar to those in operation before the cyclone. APCERP was an
emergency reconstruction project and has not established any new works for which
operational plans had to be prepared. There seems no need to obtain these old plans,



31
INDIA: Andhra l'radesh Cyclonc Emnergency Rcconsttiuctioii Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Menioire
which would be too numerous and voluminous in any event to append to the Aide-
Memoire as required by the Bank according to the new ICR guidelines.
33.      However, the maintenance of the works reconstructed or repaired under
APCERP is of considerable importance, as their previous lack of maintenance was a
greater cause of poor condition than was cyclone damage. This was particularly true of
drainage systems which were largely blocked and inoperative, exacerbating damage
caused by the cyclone.
34.      It should be realized that the works carried out by the project only form
components of road, irrigation and drainage systems and other public infrastructure for
which maintenance organizations and systems exist. These organizations and systems are
generally adequate to identify, specify and supervise maintenance works, which are
carried out by contractors. The main inadequacy is in the availability of funds for the
works and this has, in some cases, led to disillusionment of staff in maintenance units
and the breakdown of inspection procedures.
35.      Of particular concern is the maintenance of the major drainage component
of the project which has been estimated by ICAD to require Rs300/ha/annum compared
with RslOO/ha/annum presently allocated, according to PMU, while the national norm
for the Krishna-Godavari Delta is on average RslO7/ha/annum according to PMU's
interpretation of the Ninth Finance Commission Report. Maintenance allocations for
irrigation works of RslOO/ha/annum (national norm is Rs174/ha/annum, according to
PMU) are less than 50% of requirements, as are provisions to both RBD and PRD for
road maintenance.
36.      It has been agreed that all departments will prepare itemized and costed
maintenance plans with proposed methods of financing, to be forwarded to the Bank
before the draft ICR is received by GOAP.
GOAP Contribution to the ICR
37.      As required by the Bank (General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, Sec. 9.07 C) the Borrower, GOAP, is to contribute to the ICR
in a report or summary reflecting its views on the execution and initial operation of the
project; its uses and benefits derived and to be derived; its own as well as the Bank's
performance of the respective obligations under the Credit/Loan Agreement; and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit/Loan.
38.      The draft contribution to the ICR by GOAP was prepared and submitted to
the ICR mission on its arrival. The Mission and PMU have jointly reviewed GOAP's
contribution and agreed to amend it to, inter alia, attempt to accommodate a full



32
INDIA: Andlhra Pradeslh Cyclone Emergency Rcconstruction Project
Implementation Conipletion Rcport
Appcndix A: Mission's Aide Mcmoire
economic analysis of the major works under the project. The upcoming Impact
Evaluation Study may be helpful in this respect, if a first draft could be completed within
six months after the project closure. The project closure date for this purpose has been
agreed to be June 30, 1994 (and not March 31, 1994, as stipulated in the DCA) to
correspond to the closure date of Cr.1665-IND (AP II Irrigation), under which the
project was partly funded.
39.       It was agreed that GOAP would include in its contribution to the ICR,
actions it intends to take in respect of the two main issues brought about by the Aide-
Memoire, i.e. funding for maintenance of the APCERP works and the execution of the
Water Management Studies.  In this context it should be noted that the project
management agreed with the mission that the works in all sectors will not be sustainable
without adequate maintenance and that it is essential that sufficient funds are provided
for this purpose.
Mission's Suggestions
40.       The exceptional performance of the APCERP in comparison with other
projects in AP and possibly in the whole of India is mainly due to the organization and
management system (Project Management and Monitoring System) adopted. Owing to
this, the GOAP has already put forward a Government order to continue the PMU on
a permanent basis and to enhance its responsibility in covering all external funded
projects that are to be implemented in AP, as of February 1995. In the meantime, PMU
will be extended as it is until that date.
41.       The mission believes that the CERP Wing also deserves a lot of credit for
the implementation of the project works undertaken by ICAD. It is understood that this
Wing is also being retained, initially to undertake the minor drains in the three deltas.
This has proved an extremely effective set-up and its structure and management systems
could advantageously be adopted for all other Bank funded irrigation projects in AP.
The continuation of the Wing in existence will allow the following specific
recommendations to be carried out:
(a)    The adequacy of embankments in all reaches of drain where design
levels are above ground level should be ensured;
(b)    The adequacy of all out fall structures to rivers, the sea or drains
which could flow above ground level be determined in both quantity
and quality and additional works, repairs or replacements be
undertaken;



33
INDIA: Andlhra Pradesh Cyclonc Emergency Reconstruction Project
Implementation Compleiion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Mcmoirc
(c)    The  handover procedure  should  include  inspections  by  the
implementing entity together with the entity accepting maintenance
responsibility, to identify physical and funding requirements to rectify
the maintenance backlog and complete minor works;
(d)    The Delta and Coastal Rivers Water Management Plans should be
initiated as soon as possible. Terms of reference should ensure that
they are useful planning documents and not academic exercises; and
(e)    Comprehensive and accurate layouts of irrigation, drainage, and
flood protection systems and associated structures, together with
other infrastructure, should be prepared at 1:50,000 scale and used
as the basis for preparation of similar maps at 1:250,000 and
1:500,000 scale (or Imperial equivalents).



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                Actual Achievement               Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.            Depanment &              Working    Orginal     Final     Unit   Achieved      % of Final          Allocation         Actual      % of
No.                Works                  Plan      Target    Target                            Target       Working      Final     Expendi-      Final
Plan     Alocation    ltwe       Allocation
(1)                 (2)                    (3)       (4)       (5)       (6)       (7)           (8)           (9)        (10)       (11)        (12)
1 .    IRRIGATION & COMMAND
AREA DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
A. Major Irrigation                                                                                    300.0       367.7       353.0      96.00
Improvement .to Canals          NS        NS       639.69    KMs    630.82-          96.61
Improvements to Structures      NS        NS         12       Nos        7-           58.33
-     Strengthening of
Tidal/Foods Banks               50        NS        175.59    KMs    167.17-         95.20
B. Drainage                                                                                           1135.4    2642.7        2449.0       92.67
Improvement to Major Drains
K.G.Oetta                       NS,       NS       1476.61    KMs    1465.62-        99.25
Pennar Delta                    NS        NS        123.93    KMs    121.70-         98.22
Contd.....
* Remaining works will be completed by the end of November, 1994.



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                  Actual Achievement                 Actual Expra. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.            Department &             Working    Orginal      Final     Unit    Achieved      % of Final            Allocation          Actual       % of
No.                Works                  Plan      Target      Target                             Target        Working       Final     Expendi-       Final
Plan     Allocation      lure      Allocation
(1)                 (2)                   (3)         (4)        (5)      (6)        (7)            (8)           (9)         (10)        (11        (12)
Improvement to Medium Drains
K.G.Defta                      NS         NS       1451.63    KMs    1384.96           95.40
oDedging
K.G.Delta                      NS         NS        87.57     KMs      31.67"          36.16
Structures
K.G.Delta
a) Now                       NS         NS          46       Nos       19--           41.30
b) RemodeNing                NS         NS          69       Nos       46---          66.67
-      Pennar Deha
a) Now                       NS         NS          10       Nos        10             100
b) Remodeling                NS         NS          14       Nos        14             100
* Remaining works will be completed by the end of November, 1994.
Works over the remaining 55.9 Km of drain will be much less than over the first 31.67 Kms; in tact in terms of actual work only abotA 28% is to be completed, which wai
be done by the end of November 1994.
The remaining structures under K.G. Dela vwhich have been already half completed win be hluy completed by the end of December, 1994.
2



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                 Actual Achievement                 Actual Expra. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.              Department &                Working    Orginal    Final    Unit    Achieved        % of Final           Allocation           Actual       % of
No.                  Works                     Plan      Target    Target                             Target        Working       Final      Expendi-      Final
Plan     Allocation      ture      Allocation
(1)                    (2)                     (3)         (4)       (5)      (6)        (7)           (8)            (9)         (10)        (11)        (12)
C. Medium Irrigation                                                                                          85.5        104.5       103.5        99.04
Improvements to Canals             NS          NS       74.37     KMs       74.37         100.00
Improvements to Structures         NS          NS        19       Nos        19           100.00
D. Minor Irrigation                                                                                          382.1        411.3       399.7        97.18
Improvement to Tanks               200         -         196      Nos       180            91.83
E. Improved Roads"                      NS         NS       33.46     KMs       33.46          100.00
F. Construction of Bridges*-            NS          5         3       Nos        20             66
Remaining works will be completed by December, 1994.
The financial allocation/ expenditure for roads is included under section C. Medium Irrigation.
The financial allocation/ expendture for bridges is included under Section A. Major Irrigation.
I Foundation design for the remaining bridge works have been recently finalised and the actual construction will be taken up in the next working season; completion is excepted
by March 1996.
3



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                   Actual Achievement                  Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.             Depaftment &               Working    Orginal      Final     Uni      Achieved       % of Final            Allocation          Actual        % of
No.                 Works                    Plan       Target     Target                              Target        Working        Final      Expendi-       Final
Plan      Allocation     ture       Allocation
(1)                   (2)                    (3)         (4)        (5)       (6)        (7)            (8)             (9)         (10)        (11)         (12)
2.     ROADS & BUILDINGS DEPT.                                                                                        747.9       1792.2       1765.1        98.48
A. State Highways
(Repairs/Improvements)           138         NS         764      KMs        764            100.00
B. Construction of Bridges           59          57         58       Nos        57'            98.27
C. Improvement of Bridges                        2          2        Nos         2              100
D. Cyclone Shelters                 187         187        183       Nos       182'           99.45
3.     PANCHAYATI RAJ DEPT.                                                                                          1420.4        2018        2182.7       108.16  w
A. Roads                            577        3468.5    3468.5    KMs        3116.            89.83
B. Bridges                           NS         NS          25       Nos        25            100.00
C. Minor Irrigation
tanks Improved                   1200        1015      1086#     Nos        1043'          96.00
D. New CRWS Schemes                  12          12         12       Nos       10##            83.33
E. Improvements to RWS               NS         330        330       Nos      275##           83.33
The remaining work will be completed by the end of October, 1994.
The construction of remaining cyclone shelter will be compleied by Depanment of Forest since it was constructed in Forest area.
^   The balance original programme under roads could'i be taken up for want of funds.
D The remaining M.t. works require no improvement and hence dropped.
S The remaining works will be completed by the Tribal Welfare Department.
## The remaining RWS works could not be taken up for want of funds.
o  The expenditure under Panchayati Raj Sector is in excess of the final allocation on account of payments towards price escalation as per agreements.
4



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                 Actual Achievement              Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.                 Depanment &                    Working   Orginal    Final       Unit      Achieved     % of Final           Allocation        Actual       % of
No.                     Works                        Plan     Target    Target                                Target       Working      Final     Expendi-     Final
Plan    Allocation     ture     Allocation
(1)                       (2)                        (3)        (4)       (5)        (6)         (7)           (8)           (9)        (10)       (11)       (12)
4.   PUBUC HEALTH ENGINEERING DEPT.                                                                                        201.7      335.2       331.0       98.74
A. Municipalities                             26        26        51         Nos          51          100.00
B. Roads Metalled                             185       NS      149.48'      KMs        149.48        100.00
C. Roads Metalled &                           200       NS      183.50'      KMs        183.50        100.00
Black Topped
D. Construction of Road Drains                120       NS       95.97'      KMs         95.97        100.00
E. Improvements to Water
Supply Schemes                            NS         NS        74         Nos          74          100.00
5.   HORTICULTURE DEPT.                                                                                                    144.3       132.8       130.8      98.49
A. Improvement to Nursaries                   10         10        10        Nos          10           100.00
B. New Nursaries                               4         4         4         Nos           4           100.00
C. Credit:
a) Value                                112.3     112.3     103.0    Rs.in Mill.    102.3         99.32
b) Area                                14000       NS       15208        Ha.        15208        100.00
c) Beneficiaries                         NS        NS       11279       Nos         11279        100.00
6.   AGRICULTURE DEPT.                                                                                                      45.0       51.0        51.0       100.00
R'emoval of Sand Cast                         3000       NS        6294        Ha.        6294          100.00
* Under Public Health Engineering Deptt. the Working Plan targets for roads are not in Working Plan, but in the Technical annex to memorandum  and recommendations of
the President. These targets were over-estimated; the final target depicted the actual requirement.
5



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                   Actual Achievement               Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.               Department &                 Working   Orginal    Final        Unit       Achieved      % of Final           Allocation         Actual      %'o of
No.                   Works                      Plan      Target    Target                                 Target       Working       Final     Expendi-      Final
Plan     Allocation    ture      Allocation
(1)                    (2)                       (3)        (4)       (5)        (6)          (7)            (8)            (9)        (10)       (11)        (12)
7.    FISHERIES DEPT. *                                                                                                   307.4        73         71.7        93.22
A.  Departmental Expenditure
Survey of damaged boats               0.05      0.05      0.05    Rs. in Mill.     0.05          100.00
Fishing gear allowance               14.00      14.00     14.00                    13.96          99.71
Establishment of mini Boat Yards      1.00       1.00      1.00                     1.00         100.00
Fish Farming                          5.00      5.00      5.00                     0.86           17.36
Repairs to Deparnrhental Properties  11.80      11 80     11.80                     1.76          14.93
Technical Assistance                  2.10      2.10      2.10          *          0.56           26.66
B.  Credit
Boat Repairs                         6000        NS       6000        Nos          3860          64.33
New Boats                             4000       NS       4000        Nos.          171           4.27
Catamarans                            5000       NS       5000        Nos.          744           14.88
Gear                                 38W)        NS       38000       Nos          5552           14.61
Brakish Water Ponds                   4086       NS.      4086         Ha.          472           11.55
Fresh Water Ponds                    6383        NS       6383         Ha.         3329          52.15
C.  Improvements to Ports                   3         3         3          Nos           3             100
* The Working Plan targets could not be achieved due to over-estimation of the requirements and poor response from beneficiaries.



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                  Actual Achievement               Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.           Department &           Working    Orginal    Final       Unht      Achieved     % of Final           Allocation         Actual      % of
No.              Works                 Plan      Target    Target                               Target        Working      Final     Expendi-      Final
Plan     Allocation     ture     Allocation
(l)               (2)                   (3)       (4)       (5)        (6)         (7)           (8)            (9)        (10)       (11)        (12)
8.    FOREST DEPT.                                                                                            111.1       50.0         47.0       94.00
A. Establishment of
Coastal Shelter Belts      12180       NS       4700'       Ha.        4809          102.32
p.
B. Seedlings Production       39.00       NS       2.04'    MillIbags      2.04         100.00
C. Strip Plantations
along Roads                 NS         NS        508       KMs          508          100.00
The Working Plan targets could not be achieved due to encroachment
.7



ANDHRA PRADESH CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PHYSICAL REPORT UNTIL AUGUST, 1994
(Cr. 2179-IN/Ln. 3260-IN)
Financial Allocations &
Physical Targets                 Actual Achievement                 Actual Exprs. (Rs.in Millions)
Si.              Depanment &                 Working    Orginal    Final"    Unit    Achieved      % ot Final            Allocation          Actual        % of
No.                  Works                     Plan      Target    Target                             Target       Working       Final       Expendi-      Final
Plan      Allocation     ture      Allocation
(1)                   (2)                      (3)        (4)       (5)       (6)       (7)            (8)           (9)         (10)         (11)        (12)
9.    ENERGY DEPT.:                                                                                                871.3      1560.0...    1524.5         97.72
(Electricity Board)
A. New 132 KV lines                    50         50        275      KM         275            100
B. Construction of
132/33 KV Sub-stations              3          5         12       Nos        12            100
C. New 33 KV lines                     495        515       643      KMs        643            100
D. Construction of
33/11 KV Sub-stations               NS         -         50       Nos        50            100
E. New 11 KV lines                     581        581       713      KMs        713            100
F. Underground 11 KV Cables            NS         49        49       KMs       45-             92
G. Underground LT Cables               NS          -         50      KMs        49-            98
H. 1 1 KV, AB Cables                   NS         49         94      KMs       79.9'           85
I. LT, AB Cables                      NS          -         95      KMs.       80             85
The remaining works of under ground / AB cables will be completed by the end of Sept.'94.
Final target increase due to increase in final allocation.
Increase of final allocation is due to a more tavourable exchange. rate.
8






"I                 IB-11-.1'                                                     .8-83
1                  ~~~~77'             78                   79'                 8G'       /         d                    7                  83'                 8t-                6
INDIA
L- 't -..                         \   CYCLONE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
g     -x\  g ~~~~A D I L A 8 A D.-                                                                  POETo
(.,+    2    g                           J   2                                            AFFECTED AREAS
MADHYA                     !  
--n~bc,d                                         PRADESH
NIZMABDf~    KARIMNAGAR                   -0
18  .c~~2rOShO,                 ~WARANGAL                                                                                                                                               IS
>  4           : i A              A  _Nydem                     K                      I^  N#AiA 
17                                                                                                                                                                     Am. o Coaos  Bet Alffaced due l
Cydons nd F6o&                 17
o    Glues
ch~~~~~~~~~ilipwo                                                                      Dsict our_  K"  ,
= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  *Sk  le:-5c q> hal
4                                                                                                  h*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lfrnoband Bwtndcuie
r j      K  U   R   N    O      L O   t   --fI
z
ANANTAPUR
K         CUIDDAPAH
iB78,, c' ._4  **j'"4,1,,  -g  ___      k                                  <                            >     0 20 40  60 80 T100  20 14  160 180 200 220
3-3                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
\   |   (  C H I T T O O R                                                  I; J  O    20    *o   60    80    0o   120   l4O
-13'                -                   M         a         d        r         a        s                  M        I        L       E        S               E
1.         Ma&a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~h.-.    d-i--..                                                           h
RongoIore                                                                                                                                                                      0    
Z                                                              TA M  IL    N AoU h.-                                                                    .  1thi  tp    do    not  n o  th   pir. o o . WWord   onk  NJ
ZOa                      z7oop. ajy 7odg                                                                                                                             on .. th.    Iot o7f  y                      Xttr, r any
in                                                                                                       endorsenient~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. oracptanc  at .-h bouodo..-o
7t7'           ~~~78                7-'                                       Bi                   2'O









.                  !     .                          .                            I                
. , I .



