OFFICAL
D IMAFNTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2179 IN
LO4A1 3 26 -//
Development Credit Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        Oc2s, 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2179 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   OC270466X     23 , 1990, between INDIA,
acting by   its   President,  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made;
(D)   the Project will be carried out by Andhra Pradesh (as
hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Andhra Pradesh
the proceeds df the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and
Andhra Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan
Agreement;
(b)   "Affected Areas" means the district of Khammam and the
nine coastal districts in Andhra Pradesh affected by the May 1990
Cyclone;
(c)   "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereto;
(d)   "Beneficiarie-" means cyclone victims of the Affected
Areas;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)   "PHU" means the Project Management Unit established by
Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of managing and monitoring the
Project;
(g)   "APSCOB" means the Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative
Bank;
(h)   "APCCADB" means the Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central
Agricultural Development Bank;
(i)   "Participation Agreements" means the agreements, dated
September 19, 1990, satisfactory to the Association, between APSCOB
and Andhra Pradesh and between APCCADB and Andhra Pradesh for the
purposes of carrying out Part E (a) of the Project; and
(j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred twenty-six million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 126,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.   Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge ahall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the pur-
poses of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 2000 and ending June 15, 2025. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15,
2010 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some of
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-5-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause Andhra Pradesh to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Andhra
Pradesh therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Andhra Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India.
,Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the


﻿-6-
Project shall be carried out by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Sect1lon
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure  that all records    (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;            I
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably re-
quested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved


﻿-7-
in ther preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred.after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Andhra pradesh
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event- specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tiohal condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness.of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement


﻿-8-
has been duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is
legally binding upon Andhra Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
Fax:
9-111-3014420
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount            Amount
of the            of the
Credit            Loan            % of
Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
(Expressed        (Expressed       tures
in SDR          in Dollar        to be
Category      Eauivalent)      Equivalent)      Financed
(1) Civil works     87,100,000       27,000,000      70%
under Parts A
through G of
the Project
(2) Equipment,      21,000,000        7,000,000      100% of
materials and                                    foreign
vehicles under                                   expenditures,
Parts A, B, D,                                  T100% of
E, F, G and K of                                 local ex-
the Project                                      penditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
70% of local
expenditures
for other
items pro-
cured
locally


﻿- 11 -
Amount           Amount
of the           of the
Credit            Loan            % of
Allocated        Allocated        Expendi-
(Expressed       (Expressed        tures
in SDR          in Dollar        to be
CAtI670=     Equivalent)      Eauivalent)       Financed
(3) Agricultural    8,000,000         2,000,000     70%
credit under
Part E of
the Project
(4) Incremental     4,000,000         2,000,000     60%
staff salaries
(5) Consultants'    6,000,000         2,000,000     100%
services and
training
TOTAL     126,100,000       40,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 14,800,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 16, 1990.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in cyclone
reconstruction operations in the Affected Areas; and (ii) strengthen
institutional capabilities in cyclone preparedness and mitigation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Irrigation and Drainage
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of the irrigation      and
drainage systems in the delta areas covering over 1 million hectares
and the upland portions of the districts in the Affected Areas
consisting of:
(a) diverting upland drainage away from the delta areas;
(b)   cleaning, restoring and improving channels and embank-
ments of major, medium and minor drains in the delta areas;
(c)   restoring and improving tidal protection and man-made
river embankments either breached or highly eroded;
(d)   constructing  flood  control  embankments  and   canal
drainage structures to improve drainage;
(e)   providing a regulatory structure just below the Kolleru
Lake on the outfall drain to the sea, to keep out salt water during
low runoff periods, and to control fresh water levels in the Lake
on a seasonal basis;
(f)   undertaking  drainage works   for  relieving   chronic
flooding conditions that affect selected urban and municipal areas;
(g)   constructing and improving sea-face outfall drainage
and salinity ingress control structures as needed; and
(h)   restoring minor irrigation tanks.


﻿-13-
Part B:     Roads and Bridges
Reconstruction and repairs of the most urgent of about 25,000
kms of state and rural roads, about 100 kas of road embankments and
related bridges and culverts damaged to varying degrees.
Part C:     Cyclone Shelters
Construction of additional shelters in the Affected Area.
Part D:     Electricity
(a)   Repairs and strengthening of over 500 kms of the 33 kV
and about 600 kms of the 11 kV electricity transmissions systems in
selected areas.
(b)   Installation  of  underground   cables  and   overhead
insulated cables, particularly to ensure the continuing supply of
electricity to hospitals, telephone exchanges, and, administrative
centers during future cyclones.
Part E:     Agriculture and Fisheries
(a)   Provision of credit to Beneficiaries to assist in the
restoration of horticulture, removal of sandeasting, rehabilitation
of inland fisheries, and the replacement and repair of fishing boats
and tackle.
(b) Rehabilitation and construction of nurseries including
a coconut seed garden to support the replacement of horticultural
crops damaged by the cyclone.
(c)   Repair of damaged ports and harbours of Kakinada,
Machilipatnam and Nizampatnam.
Part F:     Rural Water Supply
(a)   Reconstruction of affected village water supply schemes
consisting mainly of wells and summer storage tanks.
(b)   Construction of headworks for water supply (storage and
treatment works and conveyance) for selected villages located within
20 kilometers from the sea.


﻿- 14 -
L_rtG:     Kunicipal Services
(a)   Reconstruction of municipal roads, drains and water
supplies in selected municipalities.
(b)   Rehabilitation of damaged water supplies including
,infiltration wells, pump houses and equipment located in river beds
and banks serving these municipalities.
Part H:     Public Buildings
Reconstruction and repair of public buildings, particularly
educational institutions and hospitals.
Part I:     Coastal Shelter Belts
(a)   Establishment of about 30 hectares of nurseries.
(b)   Rehabilitation of the coastal shelter belts through the
plantation of about 1200 hectares of trees.
Part J:     Housing
(a)   Repairs and rehabilitation of damaged houses.
Part K:     Technical Assistance
(a)   Undertaking two integrated land and water management
surveys and studies for: (i) the Krishna and Godavari deltas; and
(ii) the seven coastal river basins in the districts north of the
Godavari delta.
(b)   Services of consultants, training and equipment and
vehicles   for  disaster   awareness  program,   non-governmental
organizations and administration of the PMU.
(c)    Hiring of additional staff required for purposes of
carrying out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" meats an amount equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars (US$20,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 16 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of    this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; 'r
(b)   once the total tnvithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association or
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Condi-
tions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.        Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated


﻿- 17 -
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association or
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall-, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit
Agreoment or the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions
applicable thereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


