Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2113-LE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMI
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 15, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1.00   =   3 LL
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDIT         Banque Nationale de Developpement pour l'Industrie
et le Tourisme (National Development Bank for
Industry and Tourism)
CEGP          Conseil Executif des Grands Projets (Office for
Project Implementation)
CEGPB         Conseil Executif des Grands Projets de Beyrouth
(CEGP for Beirut)
CEP           Commission d'Extension et de Promotion du Port
de Beyrouth (Planning Board for the Development
of the Port of Beirut)
OTA           Omnium Technique de l'Assainissement (French firm
specialized in sewerage projects)
SEAED         Service des Eaux d'Ain El Delbe (suburban Beirut
Water Company)
SEB           Service des Eaux de Beyrouth (Beirut Water Company)
SGE           Societe de Gestion et d'Exploitation du Port de
Beyrouth (company operating the Port of Beirut)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LEBANON
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Lebanon.
Loan Amount:         US$50 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               17 years, including 3 1/2 years of grace at 8.2 percent
per annum.
Project              The proposed project is intended to assist the Government
Description:        in its reconstruction efforts following the civil war.  It
would include rehabilitation of the port of Beirut and the
telecommunication system thereby eliminating two critical
bottlenecks for resumption of economic activity. Capacity
of the two sectors would be restored to pre-war levels
through replacement and modernization of most urgently
needed facilities and institutional improvements. The
project would also include rehabilitation of Beirut's
water supply and sanitation facilities to ease the present
situation and preparation of longer term projects in the
sector. Finally, the project would include studies to
accelerate the preparation of future projects for urban
reconstruction and regional development. More specifi-
cally the project would include:
(a) rehabilitation of the Port of Beirut:
- construction and installation of transit sheds
and warehouses;
- procurement and installation of cargo handling
equipment, general uses equipment, maintenance
equipment and marine equipment;
- consultant services to assist the Government
and SGE - the operator of the Port - in port
reconstruction and improvement of port operation.
(b) rehabilitation of telecommunication system:
- construction and repair of buildings;
- procurement and installation of equipment for
(i) local telephone service (switching equipment
and local network and subscriber plant); (ii) long
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
distance (switching equipment, cables and aerial
lines and microwave equipment); (iii) interna-
tional service (switching equipment, earth station
and submarine cable station); (iv) telex service
(exchanges and teleprinters); and (v) general
use (power plants and air conditioning, vehicles,
tools and maintenance equipment); and
- consultant services to assist PTT in telecommuni-
cation rehabilitation and improvement of financial
and management practices;
(c) Rehabilitation in the water, sewerage and sanitation
sector:
- replacement of damaged portions of Beirut's water
distribution system;
- procurement of leak detection and maintenance
equipment;
- rehabilitation of the solid waste treatment plant
in. Beirut;
- consultant services to assist the local authori-
ties in carrying out rehabilitation works and
reviewing water utility organization, management
and finances;
- consultant services to assist the Government in
(i) preparing a project for Beirut's water supply,
(ii) analyzing capacity and design of the present
water distribution system to reduce losses, (iii)
preparing a master plan for its future extension,
and (iv) preparing a sewerage project.
(d) Studies: For the preparation of a program for urban
reconstruction and regional development, including
sites and services for low cost housing, industrial
decentralization, integrated rural development in
the most deprived regions of Lebanon and mass transit
projects.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                         Thousands of US$
Local      Foreign       Total
(a)  Port Rehabilitation
- Transit sheds and warehouses             4,500         4,500       9,000
- Break bulk cargo handling equipment         100        8,400       8,500
- Container and roll-on/roll-off
equipment                                 50         1,700       1,750
- General uses equipment                      50         1,000       1,050
- Maintenance equipment                      600         2,250       2,850
- Marine equipment                           250         1,750       1,800
- Consultant services                        800           800       1,600
- Contingencies                            1,350         4,300       5,650
Sub-total                              7,700        24,700      32,400
(b)  Telecommunication Rehabilitation
- Local Installation and
Civil Works                            7,700           -         7,700
- Local Telephone Service                    700        11,930      12,630
- Long Distance Service                      320         3,550       3,870
- International Service                      -           1,040       1,040
- Telex Service                              -             670         670
- Miscellaneous                              490         4,410       4,900
- Consultant Services                        -             420         420
- Contingencies                                          2,430       2,430
Sub-total (rounded)                    9,200        24,500      33,700
(c)  Water Supply Sewerage and Sanitation
Program (rehabilitation and project
preparation)
- Civil works                              2,000         2,000       4,000
- Leak detection and maintenance
equipment                                300           600         900
- Rehabilitation of solid waste
treatment plant                        1,000         2,000       3,000
- Consultant Services for
- rehabilitation and water utility
reorganization                        400           800      1,200
- Beirut's water supply                  410           620       1,030
- Water distribution leak survey         400           800       1,200
- Water distribution master plan         200           400         600
- Sewerage feasibility study             490         1,080       1,570
- Contingencies                            1,000         1,600       2,600
Sub-total                              6,200         9,900      16,100



- iv -
Estimated Cost:                                         Thousands of US$
(Continued)
Local      Foreign       Total
(d) Studies for urban reconstruction
and regional development
- Urban reconsitruction                       150           300         450
- Industrial decentralization                  75           150         225
- Rural Development                           150           300         450
- Mass Transit                                 75           150         225
Sub-total                                 450          900       1,350
TOTAL                                 23,600        60,000      83,600
Financing Plan:                                         Millions of US$
Bank Loan                               50.0
Suppliers credits                        10.0
Government                               23.6
83.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        Millions of US$
CY77       CY78       CY79
Annual                        7.0         19.0      24.0
Cumulative                    7.0         26.0      50.0
Consultants:         (a)  technical assistance to the Ministries of Water
Resources and Public Works and to SGE (the Port
Operator) for subproject implementation and
preparation of reforms aimed at improving port
operation and development (100 man-months);
(b) technical assistance to PTT (the Ministry of Tele-
communications) for sub-project implementation and
preparation of reforms aimed at improving telecom-
munication operation and development (52 man-months);
(c) technical assistance to CEGPB (Office for project
preparation and implementation in Beirut) for sub-
project implementation and preparation of feasibility
studies (510 man-months);
(d) technical assistance to the Reconstruction and
Development Board for preparation of projects for
urban reconstruction and regional development
(115 man-months).
Average cost per man-month would be $7,500.



-v -
Rate of Return:      -- port rehabilitation:  24 percent.   -
-- telecommunication rehabilitation: 44 percent.
-- water supply rehabilitation: 15 percent.
The weighted average rate of return of the components of
the project for which benefits can be quantified will be
about 32 percent.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON FOR A
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Lebanon for the equivalent of US$50 million to help
finance a reconstruction project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 3 1/2 years of grace with interest rate at 8.2 percent per annum. 1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last Bank report on Lebanon's economy (No 670a-LE of May 20,
1975) was distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1975. Its findings
and conclusions are very largely outdated following the nearly two years of
civil war which raged in Lebanon in 1975-76. The assessment which follows
is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited Lebanon in February,
March and April 1977. Except for some budgetary and monetary magnitudes and
the reserve level, no reliable statistics are available to describe develop-
ments since early 1975. A special economic mission is scheduled to visit
Lebanon in FY78.
3.        Immediately before the civil war, Lebanon was in a phase of rapid
expansion led by growth of exports and private investment in construction
and industry. Arab oil countries were providing vastly expanded export oppor-
tunities and investment capital for real estate. Investment was increasing
rapidly, surpassing 22 percent of GDP in 1974 and increasingly shifting from
construction to industry. The Government's laisser-faire policies and its
conservative fiscal and monetary policies provided the liberal framework
conducive to full development of abundant Lebanese entrepreneurial talent
and attractive to foreign capital. A shortage of local unskilled labor was
met by large numbers of expatriate, largely Syrian and Palestinian, workers.
Rapid development was associated with profound changes in the economic struc-
ture. In 1974, the share of agriculture in GDP had fallen to 9 percent of
GDP, whereas industry had risen to 21 percent and services to 70 percent.
The growth of services was related mainly to international transport and
trade, and to the emergence of Beirut as a center for international banking
and tourism. Lebanon's GNP per capita at market prices was estimated at
$1,170 in 1974.
1/   As a result of the war Lebanon's GNP per capita has dropped below
$1,075, the cut-off point for higher income developing countries set
in my memorandum on Grace Periods and Final Maturities (R76-206 of
August 9, 1976, see also paras 8 and 23 below).



- 2 -
4.          - rapid expansion of the private sector before the war was not
matched by growth in public investment and change in public attitudes and
institutions. Cornservative fiscal and borrowing policies had led public in-
vestments to decline in real terms since 1969 to less than 3 percent of GDP
in 1974. Hence, there were serious bottlenecks in the economic and social
infrastructure (especially port facilities, highways, telecommunications,
public schools, low-cost housing, urban public services and pollution con-
trol). Increasingly acute political and social problems resulted from:
growing income disparities among sectors, regions and religious and social
groups; the various degrees of drive and modernization among communities; the
presence of several hundred thousand foreign workers (mostly unskilled); and
the tensions caused by the activities of Palestinian armed forces which had
been admitted to the country following an agreement concluded in Cairo in
1969. The social security system and public investments targetted on low-
income beneficiaries were insufficient in relation to the need for a better
social balance.
5.        The war was chiefly caused by the opposition of a large segment of
the Christian population (chiefly the Maronite Community) to the increasing
presence and role of the Palestinians in the country and to their attempts,
backed by part of the Moslem and Druze Communities and the Lebanese left, to
include Lebanon (wrhich had steered clear from involvement in the Arab-Israli
wars since 1948-49) among the Arab "confrontation" countries. Continuous
fighting in Beirut spread to most of the country and led to polarization and
de facto partitiorn chiefly along sectarian lines. The Army was prevented from
interfering because of lack of agreement on its role and of its mixed religious
composition; it eventually split into several groups, each of which took dif-
ferent positions during the civil war. Public administration practically
disintegrated, with few exceptions. External support for the warring factions
in form of money, armaments and men, kept the war going despite the casualties,
the destruction and the exhaustion of the population. The Syrian army moved
into Lebanon in July 1976 but did not succeed in stopping hostilities until
after the inauguration in September of President Sarkis as successor to
President Franjieh and the Arab summit of Riyadh in October.  The key deci-
sions taken at thaLt meeting were: to preserve Lebanon's territorial integrity
and constitutional Government, to entrust an Arab force (mostly Syrian) with
the responsibility for security, and to plan Arab financial aid for reconstruc-
tion. Since then, hostilities have flared from time to time in the area
bordering Israel where the Arab force has not penetrated; but security has
been restored in the rest of the country.
6.        The civil war has set back Lebanon's economic and social progress by
several years. It has left deep scars on Beirut (where the center of the city,
the port and several suburbs were devastated), several other cities and many
villages. Although only a preliminary inventory of private and public losses
due to the war has; been made, extensive destruction in all sectors, but espe-
cially in housing, trade and public services is evident, with damages roughly
estimated at $2-3 billion. Overall, the country's productive capacity was
reduced by perhaps; as much as 40-50 percent at the end of 1976 by comparison
with end 1974. Th,e greatest reduction in productive capacity seems to have
been in services, followed by industry and agriculture. The war left even
deeper scars on thie population. The death toll, mostly among young men,



-3-
reportedly was in excess of 40,000, with as many as 100,000 wounded. Some
800,000 people fled the country, most of them temporarily, although a sig-
nificant number will probably stay abroad permanently. The conflict also
displaced perhaps as many as 50,000 families (or 250,000 people) within the
country. Geographically, new population groupings along sectarian lines
emerged in some regions. In this process, many workers were separated
from their places of work. Today, emigration and concern for security are
hindering labor mobility and are causing high wages in areas adjoining
pockets of unemployment. In brief, the conflict left the economy with
substantial losses of productive assets and skilled manpower, and it
created political obstacles to a quick resumption of activity.
7.        In sharp contrast to the total disruption in economic activity,
Lebanon's financial situation remained strong throughout the conflict as
a result of large transfers from abroad. Net Foreign Assets were $1.5
billion at the beginning of 1976 and $1.6 billion at year's end. These
amounts include $400 million of gold valued at $42 an ounce. However, the
Lebanese pound depreciated by about 20 percent vis-a-vis the dollar between
April 1975 and March 1977. Payment of Government salaries was never inter-
rupted. Since Government revenues ceased to be collected between early
1976 and early 1977, such payment was made out of central bank deposits and
advances, totalling about $400 million during the period. This large injec-
tion of money into the economy, together with external capital inflows, helped
limit the impact of the drastic decrease in economic activity. Domestic
prices rose substantially in the case of goods and services which could not
be supplied locally or imported (essentially gasoline, eggs, meat and dairy
products). For most of 1976, some imports entered free of official licensing
and duties.
8.        Economic recovery has been underway since October 1976 when fighting
ended in the whole country, save the South. Real GDP is however probably still
roughly 30-40 percent below its 1974 level, and the immediate financial out-
look is uncertain. Supply of foodstuffs and essential consumer goods seems
adequate throughout the country, in part thanks to external relief assistance.
Public utilities are functioning, although at a low level of service since
plants were partly destroyed and stores were looted. Ships unload at the
ports, despite the quasi total destruction of port equipment in Beirut. Manu-
facturing is reportedly back to 60 percent of the still existing capacity,
restrained by limited labor mobility, difficult input supplies and insuffi-
cient working capital. Banks re-opened on January 17, but are still in
the process of normalizing creditor-debtor relationships with most of their
borrowers. Government services are still greatly diminished by comparison
even with their insufficient pre-war capability for overall policy making and
planning as well as for project preparation and implementation. However, they
have been resuming work progressively since January 1977. In particular, the
Ministry of Finance is functioning nearly normally. Since early March 1977,
it has resumed collection of tax revenues. The 1977 current budget anticipates
revenues in an amount of about LL 1.0 billion while expenditures would reach
nearly LL 1.3 billion, resulting in a current budget deficit of about LL 300
million. Estimates of capital expenditures for reconstruction and development
are being prepared and some outlays have begun. While external financing
from Arab and other sources has been pledged to cover part of the capital
expenditures, it is likely that reliance on Central Bank advances will



- 4 -
continue to be substantia1. This and some credit expansion to the private
sector would mean a relatively rapid growth of domestic demand, and probably
pressures on the domestic price level, exchange rate and external reserves
later in 1977. Lebanon's substantial foreign exchange reserves are expected
to absorb such pressures.
9.        President Sarkis and the new Cabinet formed in December 1976 were
given full legislative powers by Lebanon's Parliament until June 30, 1977, and
have the support of the quadripartite commission (Saudi Arabia, Syria, Kuwait
and Egypt) overseeing the peace-keeping efforts of the Arab force in Lebanon.
The Government priority objectives have been the restoration of security, the
resumption of economic activity, and the reconstitution of the Lebanese Army.
Substantial progress has been made on the first two objectives, while a new
Army is slowly taking shape.  In the economic field, a wide ranging set of
measures has been taken which is expected to limit the claims on Government
for war damages and relies on the banking system and on the resiliency of
the economy to spur reconstruction and economic activity. The country's
response to these measures has generally been encouraging. On the other
hand, the resolution of the basic issues related to the Palestinians' presence
and role in Lebanon and to the domestic political and social imbalances has
been deferred and may have to await a settlement of the broader Middle-East
problems.
10.       Lebanon's public external debt and debt service are low.  At the end
of 1976, total public debt amounted to an estimated $74 million, of which $40
million was disbursed. Bank loans represented respectively 65 and 37 percent
of these totals; loans from government accounted for nearly all the remainder.
In 1976, public debt service was only an estimated $7.4 million. Despite the
exceptional circumstances, most Government services were able to meet their
obligations almost on time; the difficulties met by the PTT in conjunction
with payments on suppliers' credits are in the process of settlement, with
Government assistance (see paragraph 38). In future, while public external
debt is expected to increase, the growth of debt service obligations should be
relatively slow since the Government's policy is to rely mostly on official
sources offering concessional terms. Assuming conservatively that exports
regain their 1973 level ($1.2 billion) around 1979, and grow thereafter by 5
percent a year in real terms, total debt could rise to $1.5 billion by 1980
without causing debt service to exceed 10 percent in any year over the long
run. The large scope for additional borrowing within prudent debt management
limits, the likelihood, if security is maintained, of a minimum recovery and
expansion of private export production, and the likely availability of sub-
stantial external funds on concessional terms are the basic elements pointing
to continued soundness of Lebanon's creditworthiness. Moreover, the resiliency
demonstrated by its people in rebuilding Lebanon's economy immediately follow-
ing the end of the civil disturbances justifies confidence in sustained
economic growth in the longer run. Lebanon can therefore be considered
creditworthy for the proposed emergency Bank loan.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LEBANON
11.       In keeping with the conservative borrowing policy followed by the
Government since independence, Lebanon's recourse to Bank lending has been
very limited so far, although there was an increased awareness of the need
to resort to external financing for economic and social investments in recent
years. Prior to the outbreak of hostilities in 1975, the Bank had made three
loans only to Lebanon for power (in 1955), education and highways (in 1973)
totalling US$66.6 million equivalent of which US$47.0 million were outstand-
ing as of May 31, 1977. Negotiations for the South Bekaa Irrigation project
were completed in 1974 and Board presentation had to be delayed pending
Parliamentary approval of bills on land betterment tax and regulation of water
rights. A second education project, intended to follow up on the first one,
was appraised in early 1975 and negotiations scheduled for September 1975
could not take place because of hostilities. The main focus of the Bank's
activity in Lebanon was to participate in much needed investments for infra-
structure and social services and in projects intended to reduce disparities
between the various population groups. IFC has been active in Lebanon in the
years immediately before the war. It approved three loans totalling $6.03
million for the financing of textile and ceramic industries and a participa-
tion in the equity of Bank of the Near East which was established to provide
medium and long-term finance mainly in the mortgage field. Service on Bank
loans was only temporarily interrupted during the second half of 1976 and
all arrears were promptly settled when contacts with the Government resumed.
Annex II contains a summary statement on Bank loans and IFC investments as of
May 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects (also see para 19
below).
12.       The outbreak of hostilities brought to a complete halt the implementa-
tion of the Education project (Ln. 877 LE) and the Highways project (Ln. 944 LE).
Initial difficulties in staffing the Project unit delayed the commencement of
execution of the Education project for which construction had not yet started
in April 1975; consequently, no disbursements were made out of the $6.6 million
loan. Execution of the First Highways Project (Loan 944-LE) was progressing
satisfactorily when construction activities had to be interrupted in October
1975. Apart from flooding of excavations for a tunnel near Chekka, no damage
has occurred to major road structures already built and contractor's equipment,
for which a total of about $5 million were disbursed from the $33.0 million
loan. The Government has requested that it be allowed to use the undisbursed
balance of the above two loans to finance respectively the rehabilitation of
its vocational and technical education system and a priority road construction,
and Highway maintenance program as well as urgently needed highways feasibility
and engineering studies. Amending documents for proposed changes in the
Project Description and Reallocation of proceeds of Loan 877-LE and Loan
944-LE are being circulated to the Executive Directors simultaneously with
the documents concerning the proposed loan.
13.       The new cabinet constituted in December 1976 had as major task the
reactivation of the economy. After a broad preliminary assessment of the
damages, the Government contacted potential donors and specifically requested



- 6 -
the assistance of the Bank. A Bank mission visited Lebanon in February/March
1977 to review the reconstruction and development priorities set out by the
Government as well as the needs and available resources and, in the light of
the findings of a previous IMF/Bank mission, determine how the Bank could most
effectively assist in Lebanon's reconstruction. It reviewed needs in trans-
portation, education, telecommunication, agriculture and low-cost housing. A
subsequent mission to Lebanon in April assessed the needs in the water supply
and sewerage sector.
PART III - RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
14.       The Lebanese economy played before the civil war the role of an
international service center in the Middle East. The need for such an expe-
rienced and well structured service center in the Middle East remains; none
has developed to replace Beirut over the past two years. With the otherwise
limited resource base of the country, neither substantial expansion of agri-
culture beyond its previous stage of development nor of industry considering
the sector's limited manpower basis could replace the services sector as main
basis of the Lebanese economy. The top priorities of the Government are
therefore to reestablish the conditions necessary to facilitate the recovery
of the private service sector, including international transport, which
critically depends on free and efficient communications. At the same time,
the Government is committed to taking steps towards redressing the severe
social and economic imbalances that contributed to the civil disturbances.
15.       Despite lack of staff and destruction of physical facilities the
Government has managed to partially restore operation of public utilities and
services and to introduce an impressive array of measures under the emergency
powers given to it by Parliament. The pattern in these measures is to direct
Government intervention towards the strengthening of the public sector and to
improve regulation of the private sector, on whose initiative and resources
the bulk of the responsibility for repairing war damage will fall. The
general policy followed is three-pronged: (a) to restrict the State's liabi-
lities for war damnages to the public sector and to extreme hardship cases
in the private sector; no compensation is envisaged for losses incurred by
individuals and businesses; (b) to ensure that the private sector receives
the full support of the banking system, with the Government assuring part of
the risk for reconstruction loans; and (c) to seek external aid in order to
restore public finances and the balance of payments and to secure financing
for both public and private reconstruction.
16.       Overall economic planning has been traditionally weak in Lebanon.
To overcome this weakness, a major step has been taken by the new Government
through the estabLishment of a Reconstruction and Development Council. The
Council, staffed with some of the best Lebanese talent, has been vested with
broad powers to develop and implement a national reconstruction and develop-
ment program, to ensure coordination between ministries and to assume respon-
sibility for foreign and domestic borrowing. It is currently reviewing the
reconstruction plans prepared by various public institutions and negotiating
external assistance to finance them.



-7-
17.       Operation and project implementation capability in the public sector
is being rebuilt. A number of public agencies such as the Ministry of Posts
and Telecommunications (PTT), the Electricity and Water Companies and the
Airport Authority are back in operation. The public company responsible
for operating the port of Beirut--Societe de Gestion et d'Exploitation du
Port de Beyrouth (SGE)--is handling reduced traffic but rapidly expanding
as well as possible under existing circumstances. The Conseil Executif des
Grands Projects (CEGP)--an autonomous agency within the Ministry of Public
Works, responsible for administration and control of major construction
projects--is gradually rebuilding its prewar capacity. Other Government
agencies are operating under considerable difficulties which will take time
to overcome.
18.       To assist in private sector reconstruction several measures have
been taken. The role of the industrial bank--Banque Nationale pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (BNDIT)--has been expanded, a new housing
bank has been created and a system of special bank advances has been put into
effect to help traders who have lost their assets during the civil war. In-
creased responsibility has been lodged in the cooperative credit union and
the Green Plan authority to assist farmers in their reconstruction and re-
equipment efforts.
19.       Apart from emergency relief from several sources and FAO assistance,
and pending the availability of prepared reconstruction and development proj-
ects, little external assistance has been mobilized so far. Several Arab
Funds have recently agreed on a substantial assistance program which is sub-
ject to approval by the national authorities concerned. A $50 million quick-
disbursing aid package has been granted by the USA in February. The same
month, Lebanon signed an agreement with the EEC providing for the equivalent
of US$34 million in financial assistance over the 1977-81 period, as well as
for trade concessions on the part of the EEC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
20.       The Bank missions referred to in para 12 concluded that the Bank
should assist in the rehabilitation of the Port of Beirut and telecommunica-
tions as the most effective means to open up the major bottlenecks impairing
the resumption of economic activity, especially in the crucial services and
industrial sectors where fast recovery was deemed possible. The Bank would
also assist in financing most urgent rehabilitation works for the water dis-
tribution system in Beirut and preparing technical studies for reconstruction
and development projects in selected sectors such as low-cost housing, indus-
trial estates, mass transit, water and sewerage, and integrated rural develop-
ment for the most deprived regions of the country. Also, amendments to Loans
877-LE (Education) and 944-LE (Highways) were necessary to help meet the most
urgent needs in the respective sectors. Memoranda proposing such amendments
are being circulated concurrently to the Executive Directors.



- 8 -
21.      T     case for Bank assistance on an emergency basis in support of
Lebanon½: r.--onstruction efforts rests first of all on the need to restore a
minimum l-wse  of key public services to allow for the resumption of Lebanon's
regional role as a service center. At the same time, the Bank would provide
planning advice in the sectors in which it would be involved to ensure con-
sistency among major investment projects. The Bank's role could be extended,
should the Government request it, to advice on reconstruction priorities, on
longer-term development needs, and on the coordination of aid provided by the
various external financial sources.
22.       Among the immediate objectives of Bank assistance, rehabilitation of
the port and telecommunications should be considered as top priority and be
carried out as soon as possible. Other sectors of equally high priority such
as urban reconstruction or rural development are less amenable to quick
solutions and will have to be studied before investment plans can be devised.
However, in the case of Beirut's water distribution and sanitation system,
urgent rehabilitation is needed as a first step before tackling longer term
reconstruction and development problems in the sector. In coordination with
other external sources, the proposed loan would help finance (i) the rehabil-
itation of the port of Beirut, (ii) the rehabilitation of the telecommunication
system, (iii) the most urgent rehabilitation needs in the water, sewerage and
sanitation sector as well as a study program for its further reconstruction
and development, (iv) studies to prepare projects in critical areas of urban
reconstruction and regional development (low-cost housing in Beirut, indus-
trial estates and rural development in deprived regions of Lebanon and possibly
the creation of EL country-wide mass transit system).
23.       The proposed Bank loan for ports, telecommunications and water
supply and sanitation would help to restore the capacity of these installa-
tions to pre-war levels while providing for some institutional improvements.
The proposed assistance would be provided as quickly and e onomically as
possible without foreclosing any options for future development.
24.       The main features of the proposed loan and project are described
below. A separate appraisal report has not been prepared in view of the emer-
gency character of the project but more detailed descriptions of the major com-
ponents are contained in Annex IV.   The loan would be for 17 years including
3-1/2 years of grace. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 16 to 20,
1977. The Lebanese delegation was headed by H.E. Michel Doumet, Minister of
Industry, Oil and Agriculture and included Mr. Sabbah Al Haj, Vice President
of the Developmernt and Reconstruction Council.
A.   Port of Beirut
25.       Background.  In 1974, traffic in the Port of Beirut amounted to
about 4 million tons, of which 3.0 million tons for local consumption or pro-
cessing and 1.0 million tons as transit for Arab countries, mainly Jordan,
Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Three docks were in operation and a fourth under con-
struction for container and trailer traffic. Facilities and equipment are
state owned and investments financed by the Government. A Commission



- 9 -
d'Extension et de Promotion du Port de Beyrouth (CEP), consisting of Govern-
ment and private sector representatives under the chairmanship of the Minister
of Water Resources, is responsible for planning and supervising extension of
port facilities. The Societe de Gestion et d'Exploitation (SGE) is respon-
sible for operating the port and managing the free zone as a private "con-
cessionaire" under the control of the Ministry of Water Resources.
26.       Port infrastructure remained unaffected by the war while all super-
structures such as sheds, warehouses, cargo-handling equipment, workshop
telephone and power lines were either destroyed or severely damaged. Total
replacement cost has been estimated at about $67 million. However, a mea-
sure of traffic resumed in January 1977 and is increasing despite the lack
of facilities.
27.       Objectives and Description.  The proposed sub-project is intended
to assist the Government of Lebanon in restoring the Port of Beirut's pre-
war capacity within about two years. The sub-project would allow for both
replacing the most urgently needed equipment and buildings and modernizing
part of the cargo handling equipment to take account of the expected develop-
ment of container and trailer traffic. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development has expressed interest in financing completion of the fourth basin.
28.       The sub-project would follow-up on emergency assistance in an
amount of $5.5 million provided by USAID in February 1977 to allow for imme-
diate resumption of a minimum level of activity in the Port of Beirut. It
would include provision of cargo handling equipment, transit sheds and ware-
houses and general and marine equipment. The facilities to be rebuilt under
the sub-project cover about 40 percent of the area destroyed. The sub-project
would also provide for technical support to the Ministries of Public Works
and Water Resources responsible for port supervision and to SGE. The experts
to be provided under this component would assist in preparing recommendations
aimed at improving the efficiency and profitability of port operations, to
strengthen the Government control on investment planning while retaining
the expertise and interest of the present private operator. On the basis
of these recommendations, the Government would prepare proposals for a port
administration reform. These proposals together with a schedule for their
implementation would be discussed with the Bank within two years of loan
approval (Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
29.       Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements.  Total cost of the sub-
project including contingencies would amount to $32.4 million of which $24.7
million in foreign exchange. Physical and price contingencies were estimated
at 10 percent each for a total of about 21 percent of the base cost. The
proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the sub-project.
The Government would finance the local cost estimated at $7.7 million.
30.       Prior to the war, port charges covered the cost of operation, main-
tenance and depreciation and left a sizeable surplus shared between SGE and
the Government. Special dues were established in 1972 to finance port devel-
opment. No debt has ever been contracted for this purpose. It was estimated
that in 1974 about $10.3 million were collected from port charges of which



- 10 -
$9.0 million accrued to the State budget and $1.3 million to SGE. Accounts
between the Government and SGE were cleared each year. During the war, SGE
drew from its reserves to pay salaries and therefore had to obtain a LL 20
million Government advance to resume operations in January 1977. During nego-
tiations, SGE's cash flow position and projections were reviewed and found
satisfactory. It is estimated that anticipated traffic will generate suffi-
cient revenue to reimburse the Government's advance and cover the local cost
of the project within two years of loan approval. Special dues for port de-
velopment would be sufficient for reimbursing the principal of the portion of
the proposed Bank loan earmarked for port rehabilitation and financing further
extension of port facilities.
31.       Implementation.  CEP and SGE, which are both competent, would be
responsible for sub-project implementation, CEP for construction of transit
sheds and warehouses, and ancillary and marine equipment, and SGE for installa-
tion of cargo handling equipment. A detailed site plan of the port, including
a traffic plan, is being prepared by CEP. The proposed facilities would be
located according to the detailed plan which the Government agreed to send to
the Bank for review and approval (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement). Beirut's
commercial district, adjacent to the port, was completely destroyed. Plans
for its reconstruction are being prepared and the Government agreed that CEP
and SGE would be consulted throughout the phases for plan preparation and
implementation since it may entail changes in the harbor layout (Section
3.03, Loan Agreement).
32.       Procurement.  Specifications and draft tender documents for build-
ings are ready or being prepared. Detailed lists of equipment are being
prepared and would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval prior
to tendering (Schedule 4, Loan Agreement). SGE is assisted by British and
Lebanese consultants who are familiar with Bank procedures. Civil works
contracts would be tendered and equipment would be procured under interna-
tional competitive bidding aLccording to the Bank's guidelines. A 15 percent
preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equipment.
However, it is expected that all equipment will be imported.
33.       The consultants in charge of the studies referred in para. 27 above
would be appointed by the Ministries of Water Resources and Public Works and
by SGE.  They would be recruited under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.02, Loan Agreement).
B.   Telecommunications
34.       Background.  The telecommunication sector was expanding rapidly
before the civil war. Telephone lines amounted to 220,000 and were expected
to reach 430,000 in 1980. Automatization was over 90 percent complete.
Telex lines amounted to 2,000. A directorate within the Ministry of Posts
and Telecommunications (PTT) is responsible for the sector. Telephone and
telex operations were highly profitable, mostly due to excellent revenues
from foreign communications. This allowed PTT to finance the expansion
of the telecommunication system without recourse to long-term borrowing.



- 11 -
35.       Telecommunication facilities suffered extensive damage during the
civil war. In addition, freshly delivered equipment which had not yet been
put into service was looted or destroyed. Physical damages are estimated to
amount to $47 million of which about $13 million in loss of equipment not yet
commissioned and $34 million of replacements to bring the network back into
service at pre-war capacity. These estimates are tentative; they have been
prepared with imperfect data because of the war-induced loss of PTT files.
At the time of the Bank's March mission about 40 percent of telephone lines in
Beirut were in service. It was anticipated that PTT would be able to restore,
with its own forces, service up to two-thirds of the pre-war level within six
to twelve months upon receiving minimum equipment needed. Restoration of
telephone service in the provinces will take longer due to geographical dis-
persion of facilities and internal migrations which took place as a result
of the war; the latter leads to a somewhat new pattern of service. Five
hundred telex lines are in operation through use of exchanges located abroad.
36.       Sub-Project Description.  The proposed sub-project is intended to
assist in restoring the telecommunication system's pre-war capacity throughout
the country within about two to three years. The sub-project would also pro-
vide for minimum telephone service in areas into which population has moved
as a result of the civil war dislocation. Technical support would finally
be included in the sub-project to assist PTT in carrying out rehabilitation
of the network and preparing recommendations aimed at introducing financial
and management practices akin to those of commercial enterprises for tele-
communication operation and development. Despite commendable efficiency in
operating a fast expanding network and restoring minimum telecommunication
service after the war notwithstanding considerable difficulties, the direc-
torate for telecommunications in PTT will need to be reorganized to allow for
greater efficiency in the future. On the basis of recommendations made by
consultants, the Government would prepare proposals for a reorganization of
the telecommunication sector. These proposals together with a schedule for
their implementation would be discussed with the Bank within two years of loan
approval (Section 4.04, Loan Agreement).
37.       Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements.  Total cost of the sub-
project would amount to $33.7 million of which about $24.5 million would be in
foreign exchange. This latter amount would include equipment for about $24.1
million and technical assistance for $0.4 million. The proposed sub-loan, in
an amount of $16.9 million would finance (i) the foreign exchange cost of
consultants, (ii) the cost of imported equipment which would be procured under
international competitive bidding, and (iii) up to $1.9 million (net of con-
tingencies) to cover about 20 percent of the cost of proprietary equipment
to be purchased directly from manufacturers to allow for fast and efficient
use of the equipment under category (ii). However, the financing under (iii)
would be subject to the condition that prices are reasonable and correspond to
the unit price under the original bids for the items to be replaced after
allowing for inflation (Schedule 4B, Loan Agreement). These original bids
were reasonably priced.



- 12 -
38.        :    expected that suppliers' credit will finance the remaining
foreign exchange cost of equipment in an amount of about $7.6 million. In
case this financing is not forthcoming, the Government would purchase the
remaining equipment from its own resources. The Government would finance the
local cost in an amount of LL 27.63 million (about $9.2 million equivalent)
through PTT's internally generated funds and budget appropriations if necessary.
39.       Prior to the civil war, Lebanon had practically no long term debt
on account of PTT.  Part of PTT's 1972-77 development program was financed by
suppliers' credit of which LL 55 million (about $18.4 million) was still out-
standing. Of this amount about LL 40 million was overdue in March 1977. Since
anticipated net revenue of telecommunication operations for 1977 (LL 20 mil-
lion) would not be sufficient to meet this obligation, the Government agreed
to settle arrears or meet bills for existing obligations for which other
financing was not available (Section 4.03, Loan Agreement). This agreement
would become operative as soon as precise amounts owed are settled with the
suppliers.
40.       Sub-Project Implementation and Procurement.  The sub-project would
be implemented by PTT. A detailed list of equipment is being prepared. Equip-
ment contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with tlhe Bank's guidelines. However, part of the equip-
ment worth about $9.4 million should be compatible with that presently used
and would be purchased from specific manufacturers. Disbursements for expendi-
tures made under such contracts would be conditional on the Bank's approval
of a detailed list of equipment (Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). A 15 percent
preference margin or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equipment;
however, at least 90 percent of equipment are expected to be imported.   PTT
would negotiate with manufaciturers the purchase of the remaining proprietary
equipment to be financed under the proposed Bank loan. Each contract would be
subject to Bank approval. The consultants would be recruited by PTT under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02, Loan Agreement).
Retroactive financing up to $1.5 million would be allowed for contracts
awarded under international competitive bidding prior to the signing of the
Loan Agreement but after March 8, 1977.
C.   Water, Sewerage and Sanitation
41.       Background.  Already before the civil war, water and sewerage for
Greater Beirut were inadequate. Their network had developed in a haphazard
manner leading to supply shortages and increased pollution. As a result of
damage and lack of repair to the distribution system during the civil war,
water is presently severely rationed. The two water companies serving Greater
Beirut lost most of their maintenance equipment and cannot repair or replace
failed sections of the system without outside assistance. The sewer network
overflows during rains and sewage is discharged along the shoreline without
treatment.  Garbage disposal is at present a major problem; because of damage
it suffered during the war, the Beirut's solid waste treatment plant, recently
completed by a French firm, cannot operate and therefore garbage is dumped and
if possible burned on the beaches and other available open spaces.



- 13 -
42.       Objectives and Description.  The proposed sub-project's objectives
are two-fold: (i) rehabilitating the water supply and sanitation facilities
of Greater Beirut to ease the present situation and allow the population to
resettle and the city to return to normal life; and (ii) preparing longer-term
projects for reconstruction and development in the water supply and sewerage
sector. The rehabilitation component would follow up on emergency assistance
in an amount of $3.0 million provided by USAID in February 1977 and presently
executed by WHO to restore a minimum level of activity in the sector and
prevent outbreaks of disease. It would include the replacement of portions
of the water distribution system and maintenance equipment, the provision of
leak detection equipment and training of operators for this equipment, and
the rehabilitation of the solid waste treatment plant. It would also include
provision of consultant services to assist the local authorities in carrying
out rehabilitation works and reviewing water utility organization, management
and finance.
43.       According to a law promulgated in 1974 water companies all over
Lebanon were to be consolidated into five water authorities to allow for a
more orderly development in the sector. The decrees that would have provided
the details to enforce the law were not issued because of the war. In order
to formulate these decrees, the consultants would prepare recommendations for
detailed organization and management including accounting practices of the
new water authorities. At present there are no meters, except for large
customers, which pre-empts the introduction of progressive rates. The
existing flat rate of about $0.09 per cubic meter in Beirut is insufficient
to restrain consumption and to allow the water company to finance new invest-
ment. As part of their study the consultants would be required also to make
recommendations for introducing progressive water tariffs reflecting eco-
nomic cost. As an interim measure the Beirut water company would double
its present water charges not later than December 31, 1977 (Section 5.04(b),
Loan Agreement). On the basis of recommendations made by consultants the
Government would prepare proposals for reorganizing water utility in Greater
Beirut and introducing progressive rates. These proposals together with a
schedule for their implementation would be discussed with the Bank not later
than December 31, 1978 (Section 5.04(a), Loan Agreement).
44.       Several studies were conducted before the war of Beirut's water
supply and sewerage. The study program was interrupted by the war. It should
now be updated in light of the post-war situation and completed taking into
account the most urgent needs for reconstruction and development. The pro-
posed sub-project would include feasibility studies for Beirut's water supply
and distribution and sewerage. According to a study made in 1973, the Litani
and Awali Rivers, which are linked by the Bank-financed tunnel connecting two
hydropower plants (Loan 124-LE), would be the most advantageous source of
water for Beirut. However, taking water from these two rivers for Beirut's
consumption could be detrimental to possible development of irrigation in
South Lebanon, unless a suitable site was found for a dam on the Awali River.
The 1973 study should be updated and completed by assessing the physical
feasibility of such a dam. The capacity and design of the present water
distribution system should be assessed to prepare a program for reducing
losses and a master plan for its reinforcement and extension. Preliminary
schemes for improving Beirut's sewerage had been prepared and a feasibility



- 14 -
schemes for improving Beirut's sewerage had been prepared and a feasibility
study was to be started when hostilities began. A UNDP-financed national
waste management study could not start either. Both studies are needed to
prepare projects which would contribute to tackle Lebanon's worsening pollu-
tion problems. The sub-project would include the sewerage study for Beirut.
The study would be carried out in close coordination with the national waste
management study expected to be reactivated soon.
45.       Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements.  Total cost of the sub-
project would amount- to about $16 mil:Lion with a foreign exchange component
of $9.9 million, of which $6.6 million for rehabilitation and $3.3 million
for feasibility studies. The rehabilitation of the solid waste treatment
plant would be financed by bilateral sources. The proposed sub-loan would
finance the remaining foreign exchange cost in an amount of $7.5 million.
46.       Implementation.  The sub-project would be implemented by the
Conseil Executif des Grands Projets de Beyrouth (CEGPB) under the super-
vision of the Reconstruction and Development Council. CEGPB is a public
agency established ior preparing and implementing infrastructure projects
in the Greater Beirut area; it has considerable experience in this respect.
As a condition of disbursement for the proposed sub-loan, a unit headed by
an experienced engineer would be established within CEGPB for implementing
the sub-project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and Section 5.03, Loan Agreement).
As part of its responsibilities, this unit would launch an information program
in consultation with the Bank to seek the cooperation of the population of
Greater Beirut in reducing water consumption and waste (Section 5.03, Loan
Agreement).
47.       Procurement.  Replacement of water mains and procurement of equip-
ment would follow international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. A 15 percent preference margin or the prevail-
ing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids for equipment; some bids for the supply of pipe may
be won by a local manufacturer. The contract for the rehabilitation of the
solid waste treatment plant would be negotiated directly with the firm which
built and was expected to operate the plant. Consultants financed under the
proposed loan would assist the Government in reviewing the content, adequacy
and pricing of the proposed rehabilitation works and supervising their imple-
mentation. All consultants under the sub-project would be recruited under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02, Loan Agreement).
D.   Studies for the Preparation of Projects for Urban Reconstruction
and Regional Development
48.       Background.  Despite the Government's pre-war policy embodied in
the 1972-1977 Development Plan to encourage development outside the Beirut
area, industrial activities were attracted to the capital by the availability
of services and of cheap, mostly foreign, labor. Before the war, about two
thirds of Lebanon's industrial workers were concentrated in Beirut and its
suburbs. The rapid expansion of the private sector unmatched by growth in
public investment led to a number of serious bottlenecks in infrastructure



- 15 -
And increasing economic and social imbalances. Concentration of service and
industrial activities in the Beirut area was straining the existing infra-
structure, and neglect of development potential in the provinces further
stimulated migration to the already congested capital. A slum belt had
developed at the outskirts of Beirut City, while agriculture was stagnating
in the North and the South of the country.
49.       The war brought heavy damage to Beirut and displaced a large part
of its population, affecting heavily its poorer sections among others. The
commercial district and large sections of the slum belt, as well as about 60
percent of Beirut's industrial plants, were totally destroyed. The aftermath
of the war would seem however, to offer the opportunity to correct some of the
structural imbalances.  The new Government's policy, while rebuilding Beirut
on a priority basis, is to decentralize economic activity throughout the coun-
try. This would be achieved by encouraging industrial activity to develop
outside Beirut, supporting agricultural development, and also by removing
constraints to labor mobility through economic mass transit facilities. Con-
sequently, the proposed study program would assist the Government in preparing
projects in the fields of urban reconstruction, industrial decentralization,
rural development and mass transit. Implementation of parts of the program
will have to overcome serious political obstacles and the studies will
therefore be tailored to what can realistically be done in the near future
to alleviate urgent needs and test long-term solutions to some of Lebanon's
most serious social problems.
50.       Urban Reconstruction.  During the 60's and early 70's, Beirut's
population grew at a rapid pace, fueled by migration of unskilled labor
mainly from the South and neighboring countries. Housing construction was
booming but mostly for luxury dwellings. The resulting speculation in land
prices combined with the absence of Government-sponsored low cost housing
programs contributed to squeeze gradually the middle class out of proper
housing while workers' salaries were increasingly insufficient to pay the
market price for even the most modest accommodation. A slum belt developed
on the city's limits from Karantina (adjacent to the port) in the North to
Chiyah (adjacent to the airport) in the South. It is estimated that, before
the war, about one third of Greater Beirut's population was living in these
slums and about one half in overcrowded dwellings, including the numerous
camps of Palestinian refugees. Unemployment was high in the slums (one
fourth to one third).  Those who were employed were mainly working in the
port, and in the construction, industry and service sectors. Most of Beirut's
industrial activities were located close by and consisted of small scale
enterprises.
51.       The Karantina and Tell Zaatar sections of the slum belt were com-
pletely destroyed during the war. They housed together roughly 70,000 people.
Other sections of the slum belt such as Nabaa and Bordj-Hammoud were heavily
damaged. A large part of the population has been forced to move away and is
now living in temporary shelters. Dislocated persons who were self employed
or employed in small scale enterprises also lost their means of livelihood.



- 16 -
52.       Thz Government intends to assist the population in rebuilding and
improving those sections of the slum belt which were damaged during the war.
The newly created Housing Bank's first major program will be to make credit
available under favorable conditions to low income groups whose homes were
damaged or destroyed in the war.  So far, this bank has not become opera-
tional because of staffing difficulties. To assist the Government in its
effort to provide credit for housing repair and reconstruction, the USAID
quick disbursing package (see para. 18) included a housing component in an
amount of $19.5 million; of which: (i) $4.0 million grant for a home repair
program; (ii) $15.0 million housing guaranty program including $5.0 million
for demonstrating self help projects and $10.0 million loan for the Housing
Bank; and (iii) $().5 million in technical assistance mostly to train Lebanese
officials in preparing housing programs.
53.       An integrated approach to reconstruction and improvement of the
slum belt is now needed, and the Government requested the Bank to assist in
this respect. Consultants familiar with the Bank's policies in the urban
sector would be required for the preparation of a comprehensive project
which would include three basic elements: (i) rehabilitation of the damaged
physical and social infrastructure and construction of new social and com-
munity facilities; (ii) reconstruction and improvement of low cost housing;
and (iii) an employment generation program through rehabilitation and promo-
tion of small scale enterprises to increase income earning opportunities of
the population. The proposed urban rehabilitation project for possible Bank-
financing would be prepared on an emergency basis within six to eight months
from Loan Approval.
54.       Industrial Decentralization.  The pre-war Government's policy to
encourage decentralization of economic activities was not effective and
running counter to strong market forces favoring growth in Beirut. The
situation created by the war may be more conducive to achieving the Govern-
ment's renewed objectives.  A large part of the population which was forced
to leave Beirut is presently adding to unemployment pressures in areas which
traditionally showed unemployment. Industrialists whose factories were
destroyed in Beirut are seriously considering alternative locations. They
would favor resettling outs:ide of the Beirut area if developed land were
available.  At the Government's request, British consultants are preparing
an outline for a policy paper on industrial reconstruction outside Beirut
and particularly, in the North, the South and the Bekaa Valley. Their report
is expected to be available shortly. The proposed study would determine more
precisely the economic justification, financial requirements and support mea-
sures including incentives to be provided for helping small and medium entre-
preneurs building up their activity in selected areas outside of Beirut.
55.       Rural Development.  During the last decade, agricultural production
did not keep pace with overall growth which resulted in increased trade im-
balance for agricultural products. The Government became aware of the need
to raise agricultural productivity and output and more generally improve
general conditions in the agricultural sector.  The 1972-77 Development Plan
provided for expanding irrigated areas, introducing land rehabilitation schemes
and continuing crop subsidization. However, these programs were insufficiently



- 17 -
prepared and had only a modest impact. They did not benefit the poorest
farmers and were insufficient to remove basic constraints to agriculture in
deprived regions such as the North (Akkar, Hermel) and the South. Farmers in
these regions suffered from lack of infrastructure and support services and
migrated in substantial numbers to Beirut. Overall, these migrations resulted
in a fast decline of the percentage of population employed in agriculture,
from 49 percent in 1960 to 18 percent in the early 70's.
56.       A large portion of migrants returned to their regions of origin
during the war. Whether this additional population can earn a living there
remains to be analyzed. More generally, requirements for increasing agri-
cultural production and developing related activities in these areas should
be examined in close coordination with the proposed study on industrial
decentralization. Consultants would be needed for this purpose and would
assist the Government in preparing integrated rural development projects
for the most deprived regions in the North. The population concerned would
be associated with the preparation of such projects through newly established
units combining extension, cooperative, credit, and other supporting services.
57.       Mass Transit.  The main domestic transport arteries are the
North-South corridor along the coast and the East-West corridor between
Beirut and the Syrian Border. Both corridors are served by road and rail.
The coastal railway line was built in 1942-43 for military purposes to estab-
lish a connection between Egypt and Syria. Its importance declined in favor
of highways. Road transport grew steadily and the vehicle fleet increased
rapidly. The number of passenger cars has increased most rapidly and rep-
resented in the early 70's about 90 percent of the total fleet. This in-
crease resulted in severe congestion of the road network mostly in and
around Beirut.
58.       The Government proposes to carry out a study of a mass transit
system along the coast with inland connections as an economic means of en-
hancing mobility between different parts of Lebanon and its capital. Such
system could build on the existing coastal railway. This could permit the
economic integration of a country only twice the size of Delaware and offer
the most economic solution to the structural problems earlier mentioned.
French consultants are presently studying the technical feasibility and
cost of such upgrading and their report would be available within three
months. In light of the results of the French study, the Bank would assess
the need and justification for reviewing further the mass transit system
envisaged by the Government. In case modernization of the railway would not
appear justified as a basis for mass transit, the funds earmarked for this
purpose under the loan would be cancelled.
59.       Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangement.  Total cost of the study
program would amount to $1.4 million with a foreign exchange cost of $0.9
million of which $300,000 each for urban reconstruction and rural development
and $150,000 each for industrial decentralization and mass transit. The pro-
posed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the study program
and the Government, the local cost.



- 18 -
60.       Implementation.  The Reconstruction and Development Council would
be responsible for carrying out the studies. It would be assisted by coor-
dinating committees of representatives of departments and agencies concerned
and later to be responsible for project implementation (Section 6.01, Loan
Agreement). Consultants would be recruited under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Section 6.02, Loan Agreement). The draft final
reports would be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments according
to a schedule agreed upon during negotiations.
Disbursement
61.       The proposed Bank loan of $50 million would be fully disbursed
by end 1979 and would finance (i) 50 percent of total expenditures for civil
works in the port of Beirut, (ii) 100 percent of the CIF price of imported
equipment or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory, (iii) 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of consultants for the port and telecommunications
parts of the project, and (iv) 67 percent of the total cost of consultants
for the water supply and other studies included in the project. This last
percentage represents the estimated foreign exchange cost of likely associa-
tions between foreign consultants and local firms whose expertise will be
useful for these parts of the project. The list of equipment and materials
to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan is not final. Certain items
may have to be changed during the disbursement period to conform more closely
to needs, which because of circumstances and the emergency character of the
project, could not be precisely determined. Bilateral aid could be used for
certain goods for which a donor country has competitive prices. As a result,
and to allow maximum flexibiLity in the use of available financial assistance,
the composition of the lists would be reviewed from time to time by the Bank
and the Borrower.
Benefits and Risks
62.       Early rehLabilitation of the port of Beirut and the telecommunication
system to their pre-war capacity is vital for resumption of private sector
activity and more generally of Lebanon's role as a service center for the
Middle East. The project would also improve the administration of the port
of Beirut and the telecommun:ication system. Finally it would assist the
Government in restoring a safe supply of potable water and a minimum level of
sanitation for Beirut and preparing much needed reconstruction and development
program in key social sectors.  No detailed assessment of benefits derived
from restoring port and telecommunication operations to their pre-war level
could be made. However, assuming that traffic would grow within two years
from its current level of 60,000 tons per month to only 75 percent of its
pre-war level and without taking account of proposed increases in port charges,
the economic rate of return of the port sub-project would be about 24 percent.
It would be 18 percent on the assumption that traffic would only grow to half
of its prewar level. The rate of return of the telecommunication sub-project
was estimated at 44 percent on the conservative assumption that operations
would be at their pre-war level within three years. With respect to the
water supply component of the water supply and sewerage subproject, the incre-
mental rate of return was estimated at about 15 percent on the assumption that



- 19 -
the volume of water supplied will regain its pre-war level within 3 years and
that water rates will be doubled no later than December 31, 1977. The weighted
average rate of return of these components is about 32 percent.
63.       While long-term political issues have yet to be resolved, the Gov-
ernment is actively spurring economic recovery. Creditworthiness hinges
essentially on the maintenance of security, the negligible external debt, the
Central Bank's reserves, other external support, and on the resumption of
economic activity. It should be noted that Lebanon maintained debt service on
Bank loans throughout most of the civil war and is now fully current. While
there are no special project risks, the prospects for the realization of the
full benefits of Bank assistance must be considered for the broader context of
Lebanon's unsettled political future and of the problems of the region. How-
ever, as in other war-torn countries, help is needed most in such difficult
circumstances.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Lebanon and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are summarized in Annex III, Sec-
tion III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 21, 1977
Attachments



ANrOEX I
TABLE SA                                          Page 1 of' 4 pages
LESANON                * SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SMEET
LAND ARIA CTMOU 00                        .................................                     .
..... ..  .... ,                                      LEBANON                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES t11701
TOTAL         t°.4                                            MOST RECENT
AORIC.         3.6                          1960        1970    ESTIMATE             IRAN             URUGUAY          SPAIN *
GN4 PE9 CAPYTA fUSS)                         c20.0        700.0      1170.0                 *#o.o        9S0.0       1560.0
....................
*oPULA+Inv AND VITAL STATISTICS
...... ......... .... ....... , -
RODULATIO.  CMYD-VR,  4ILL10S0                2.1         2.7         3.2                 29.l           2.7         33.6
ODPULLA!IN  DENSITY
erg SUJARE WM.                           203.0       2b2.0       304.0                  18.0         15.0         67.0
PER SO: Km. AORICULTURAL LAND            762.0       a1I.0        856.0                107.0         15.0         t05.0
VITAL STATISTYCS
CRUDE RIRT4 RATE  /TAWOU, AV)              42.2       41.0        39.8                  495,         22.1          21.0
CRUDE ',FATW  RATE 1/TNOu,4V               17.0       12.6          9.9                 t8.5           9.2          8.8
INFANT mORTALITY RATE CiTWOU)            105.0        82.0 o                           140.0             *        27.9
LIFE EYPECTANCY  AT  IRTNM  CyRS)         56.5.       6 0.         63.3                 48.8         69.3          70.5
RnSS  P0PRODUCTION RATE                      .         1 .9                              3.4           1.4         1I4
DOPULATIIN GRMWTM RATE ti
TOTAL                                      2.5         2.6         3.0                   3.1          0.7           1.1
RQAA                                        *.         6. a                              4, a         t.2           2.0
JRRAN PODULATTO4 (1 OF TOTAL$               49.0         60.1          ..                 41.0          78.1         5e.I
40F STRUCTURE CRERCINTS
O   TO "i YEARS                          44.0        42.6        43.0                  4S60/a       28.3         27.8
Is *oI 64 YEARS                           52.0        52.Q        52.0                  50.07a       63.S         62,5
eS YE&RS  4 D OVC9                         4.0         S.0         5.o                   c.07         8.27
AGE  EPENnEJCVY RATIO                        0.9         0.           0.9                   l.0/a        0.6          0.6
0!CNrmmlC  sEwDENCY RATIO                     1.9         1.8          ,,                   1.97         1.,0         1.1
v1ILtY PLANN4IN
&CCEm'RS (CU4ULATIVE, TMOU)                 .         87.0              ,       ,      662.4      '
USERS (1 OF MtRR?ED WOMENI                  ..        10 ,,                             10.0
;94PLIYMENT
TOLTA :. ;0RC  (TWOUSAO40.0                            570.0            '               8T700.0      1020,0      11900.0
LASIP FOaCE IN AGRICULTURE 08)              27.0        17.8/a                            4 3. 0        17.0         2 .0
JNEMDLn7TD (t  OF LA8OR FORCE)               6.0          5.8           ;                  2. 1          80/a         1.1 /a
tNCOmE DTSTR9OUTION
...... .........__._._
O IF PPtV4TE TNCOE RECtID ST-
1 tWE ST  51 OF MOUSJWoLDS               35.0/a      26.0/b         .,                 29,7/b       19.0/U
wDmNFST P0o  OF MOUSEMOL,8                62.07a    55.0 °           .                  54Qo         4T7s57/         ,,
LOwEST  20t  OF HOUSEHOLDS                 7.07        4 o4.0        ..                  4075         4.4 7,
LOwERT  4 0  OF MOUSEMOLDS                15074 11,07                ,                  12.775       10.275
DISTPI8UTIjN OF L4AD OWNERSHIP
0 O.iWED DY TOP 10Y OF OWNERS                  .\       57.0/c
- DONEn RY SMALLEST 10Y OWNERS                 *.         t1aT 0        .                    ..
HEALTH AkD ktITrOTION
-OPUIATIN4 PER PM*YSIClAN                 1810.0      1430.0       1290.0               3300,0         o80.0       7T400 a/
OPULAT7IMN PER NURSING PERSON             1320. 0/b    030. o      1070.0/b             3230.0o      334 0.0
POPUL'ATJN PDE  wOSRAIT.L BED              430.0       250.0           .                 780.0         170.0        220.0
"ER 40ITA SUPPLN OF -
CALORITS (I OF REQUIREMENTS)              05.0        96.0         92.0/c               86.0        107.0         107.0
PRoTEIN  (GRAMS PER DAY$                  60.0        70T0         63.07o               53.0         96.0         81.0
.oF AIdCN ANIMAL AND PULSE                ..       27.0           ,,                  14.0L        64.0         ao,o
DEATW RATE  (/TWOU) AS1S 1.4                12.0         8.0           ,.                    ,,          J.3          0.9
EDJCATTON
4SS8TED QNROLLMENT RATiO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            89.0/c    111  O/                             83.0        110.0         131.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          14.0       -40.0Te                            26.0         59.0         57.0
YEARS IF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FTR9T  4ND SECOND LEVEL)                 12.0        12.0        12.0                  12.0         12.0         11.0
VOCATInNl. ENROLLMENT
(O OF SFCONDARY)                           2.0         .0 /f      2.0/d                 3.  21.0                 20,0
ADuLT LITERACY RATE tXi                         ,        68.0       68.0                  37 .0         91.0          4 .0
ADJSTON
4ERSONY  4FR ROOM (URRANS                     2.2        2.1           .-                  2.21d          ..
DCCUPTED ?  wELLCIN   WiTWOUT
PIPED  WATER t1)                          43.0        34A0            .                 87.a/a,e        .-
ACCERS TI ELECTRICITY
(t  OFr ALL DWELLINIS)                    82. 0       98 0          .                   25.0/a
2JRAL e*LLINSS CONNECTED
TO ELErTRICOTY  t%)                       71.0          ,,          ,,                   4.0/a
C0'N!UMRTtDN
RADII DECEIVERS  C(ER TwOU 'Op) P           61.0        21,5.0      211 .0/e              93.0        346.0         214.0
PASSE0ER CARS (PER TMOU pop)                30.0        50.0         72.0                 10.0          08.0         71J.
TLECTRTCTTY   4W44y4R PER ;AP)              225.0       498.0       709.0                26.0          762.0       1634.0
NEWSRPTNT t140/yR  PEQ cCwR                  1.2/ d       2.1         2.9                  0.a          7.0           5.S
SE        ......                            .........  ,...............N....N..O RVR...................  ....... N   ON      ......
SEE NnTFS A4   Er4TO4   N?EE8



ANII  I
Page 2 ofi 4 pages
Jnless otberwise roted, data for 1?60 re'er to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for bkost Recent Estimate
between 1973 and 1975
Spain hs- teen selected as an zt.ecti-ve country because Lebanon is aiming for European living standards and should be conoared  itk
a European cvmtry in the lower -'cCoe bracket.
LEBASO    19N     La   erslnai disposable income;    s: gncluding assistant nurses and midwives;   /c  Including putlic _re-primary educato:..n.
19 L3    .  ERcludidg  -eeployed;   /'   Personal disposable income, Boit ad outskirts;   fc  1966;   /d  L-oaLunC. midwives and
assistant nurses;   /e  Excluding 26 percent of private schools, but includ-ing public rrimary ed- cation;
If  including 'JXlWA schools.
MOST RECENT ESTfa-.TE:    a  1970-75;   /t  including midwives and assistant nurses;    Le  1969-71 average;   /d  1972;   /e  1971.
IhA         1977   La  1966;   It  ertan only;    c  1964-66;    /d  Excludes nmspdic tribes;   Le  Inside only.
'Y.'J.,'JAY  1973   /a  Pbntevideo only;    t  1967.
S3A12       1973   'a   mplysernt cffice estimate;   /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
P2, J-ama 7, 197
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~rnriu  or snn.nDlT
DEIF7MD'7I     OF 5DCIAL IN'DICATORS
Lasd Area ithbu klas2                                                                          Populstion per nursing pereso  - Populatice divided be e-unber of nror-isie.c
Total - total surface area sonprising lass!d see  and island waters.                             male and finals grad-tae nurses,  tcrained' or  crtified` nurses. ane
kg,ric. - Most resc_t estimate of agricultural aces used tempo-arile or peras-                   ailitary personnel vith tr-iig or oxpetiente.
nestle for seeps. pastures, sarket & kitohsn gardens or to lie fall-.                       Populatioa per hospital bed - Pepulation divided by onber of hospitol beds
aemiltble in publtic and private general asd specialized hospital and
GNP per capita (15$) - GlP per capita esti mtes st s-rent worket prise:.                         rehabilitation cesters; excludes sursig hobes and esrablislensts for
-1aelated by  sa  canvrsi-r =ethod a weId Sa-k 4cls  (1973--5 basis                          c-strdial asd prevencive care.
19fC; 19t0 and 19'5 data.                                                                   Per capita eupply of calories (7 ad reguirane)t.  - Cspruted fr- energy
acoivaleer of net ficd supplies available in setrer per capita per day;
Popolasioc and sital scatistic                                                                   available supplies omprise donestic produotiot. i            Iparts less esrerts . 5s
up,la-iaz (rid-vear  illlite)   to of 3sle first,  if not seaalable. a:erage                     charges ir. stock; net supplies exclude anial feed. seeds, q-uanities  se
of -,s end-vear esti-ates; 1-60i  1970 and 19-5 data.                                          in food processing asd losaes is diatribution; recuirene.ts were estimated
be fAl based on physioltgical needs for -orsal activity asd health coasid-
Popupacion de-site - per -sars kr - Mid-vear popolase per square kiloraeter                      aring snvirortal se=perara, body r_ighs, age and sex distribuatfos 
(tl0 hesrares of total ares.                                                                  population, asd ala1viag 10i  for vate at hossehald level.
P.pclanioi  density - per square in of egrif. land - Compoted as above for                     Per capita supply sf pratein (grain per day) - Proteis content of per capiro
agricultural land only.                                                                        net supple ad fand per day; nt supplv of food is defined as above; re-u-es-
mants for all countries eatabliahed by 'SDA c.trosno tResearch Services
Vital staristics                                                                                 provide for a =inim  allo .asce of 60 grams of octal protein per day, and
Cr_de birth rate per thobsand, average - annual live births per thousand of                      21 grams of animal and pulse protei., of -which l0 grass should be animal
r:d-vear popolstise; ten-year aeirnstic aees-ges endieg is 1960 and 1920,                      pr-eeid; these  tsandards are Inser than those of -S g-asa  of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                 and 23 grass of animal protein as an average for the  -rld, propased bv F-
rude death rate per thousand,  verage - henat deaths per thousand of mid-year                    in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritlahetic averages siding in 1960 and 197C ass five-                  Per capita protein supply fras animal and pulse - Pretein supply of food
year average ending in 19-5 for most recent estinee.                                           derived from animals asd plases ia grass per day.
nfant nortalitv rate (.'thou) - danual deaths of infants under ome year of age                 Death rate (. thou) ages 1-4 - r.nnul deaths per thousan d in age group 1-_
per thousand live births.                                                                      years, to children in this age grasp; suggested as an ',ndIcatcr of
Life erpeotanoc  as birth (vrsl - Average nu--r off  ers of lifde remaing at nalnurin
birth; usually five-year averages ending io 196C. 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                               Edscatias
..eoss reproductton rate        - voerage eneber of live daughters a wanes will bear           Adjusted enrollment ratio - pritsry school - Enralins1     t of all ages as per-
in her n.orml reproducti-e period if she no,periances pre9est age-soesific                     centage of prmary school-age poplatios; includes children  gesd i-li wears
fertilit- rates: usually five-year ovecages ending in 1960. 1971 and 19-5                      but adusted for different lengths of prieary ed-ation; for countries with
for developing sonetrtes.                                                                      universal education, enro,lment nay exceed 1100=  since sas pupils are belo-
Powuloior. erog th rats U.   - total - C-dponad aenual gree-th racas of rid-wear                 or above the official school see.
population for 1950-6C. 1960-'? and 19-0-''.                                                 Adjuased erroljnt ratio  - seconderv school - _omputed as above; ascomdare
Population grovth rate (7) - urban - Computef like gro-th rate of total                          education requires at least four years of approved primar, instruction;
population; different definiton.s of urban areas  ay affes: coparabilicv of                    provides general, vocational ir teacher training itutructisna  for pupils
data among sentries.                                                                           of 12 to 17 vears of age; correspondence courses are generally ecluded.
';rba. population (_ of total) - Ratri  of urban to total population; different                Years of sehanling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas nay affect conparability of data among countries.                   schooling; at secondary level, vwcational inattrssetisll y he partia117 or
completely excluded.
Ar: stuto.re (percent) - Childree  (0-1  yearo-   -working-age (15-61 years:,                  Vocational enrll-ent (C of secondary  - Vocationai institutions includa
and retired (65 sears and over) as percentages of rid-year populatior.                         techeical. industrial or other prcrnaa which operate independe-tle or as
:r depe.d-eo, ratio-faeiv  vi population under S aod '5 and over to those                        departmerts of seconeIrs is-titutions.
of ages 13 through hd. Iolt literacy  rate (I) - -literate adults (able to read and write>  as peo-
-toooni  deoodencc, ratio  - Ratio of population  rndre 15 and e5 and  ver no                    centage of total adult population aged 15 vears n-d over.
te labor fortce is sage roup of 15-64 sears.
peailv olannino-aaccpors  :cvelativo. rioo   - tuonlatele s-nbee of osseptoes                  dousiug
of birth-con-trol devices under auspices of tationol family plnsino   -rofrac                Persons per roan (urban) - Average -tutebr of persos per roan is ocsupied
since is-eprion.                                                                               convectional dwelltbgs in  rneac arcas; duellists errl_do son-p-rnaneset
-an'ile plsoieg - users (I. of yarried wanes) - Percentages of snaerid woven of                  stntctures asd oneos.pied parts
s-ild-bearini  age (15-44 nears1 who one birch-control devices to a1 yarried                 Occupied dwellings without piped water (7( - Pccspie             d conventional dvellings
wanee it  sane age grup.                                                                       is urban asd rural areas without inside or ot-side pined water fa-ilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
mEvlownens                                                                                     Access to electriciry  . of all d-ellnca:  - Conve-e_osal dIellicos with
.otal labor force (fh-usand) - iconoasically ative persons. including acred                      electricity in Iiying cuar-ers at per-net of t-tt iw  'isps ir. utia  a-d
rorces and unexploved hot .e..lding housei-es. stude-ss. etc.; definitions                     rural oreas.
in varisus coontries are not somparable.                                                    Rfral dwellings sonnected so electricit  ("  - Canpunod vs above for r-ral
l.bor force in agriculture  (7) -  sgriculturol taboe f          i  f ig   orestr                delligs only.
hu-nine and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
conepl-ved (7P of labor force) -                     -n1ploved are usuall- defined as  ,esc-.s &-o  Ctnsumption
are able and willing co tabk  a job. et of            - ob on a given d-v  renaid out        Radio receivers (per thou pp) -  11 types of recei-ers foe radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking  ork for a specified minimaum period not seceediro one                   so general public pee thousand of population: e.cludes unlicensed receivers
veek; may soa  be comparable between countries due to different definitions                    ic countries and in years whet registration sf radio sets was in effect;
of usemployed asd source of data., e.g.. amplomaeet office statisoios. saple                   data for resent years may  -oc be omparabls  ince sest csecries abolished
surveys. cpotplsore onamploynec insorance.                                                     licensing.
Passenger cars (per thau PaP) - Passenger  -sre c-prise mactr cars  seating
Income distribhtion - Percentage of private inscoe (both in cash and kinds                       lens than eight persos; excludes ebhlances, hearses asd ailitars
received by richest 57.. rithese  2071. pooret 20C. and poorest &.0 of house-                  vehicles.
bolds.                                                                                       Electriciti   (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual cansteption of industrial. 1oerial.
public and private electriciry in kilowatt hours per capita. gencerallv
Discribotias of lass!d   nrship - Perentagea of land  ssesd bv wealthiest 101                   based on production data, without allowance for loases in grids bht atllp-
and poorest 1072 of land owners.                                                                ing for imparts and exports of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual cansacptian in kilogras
ealath and N-trition                                                                              estimated frde domestic production plus net imperts af fewapetat
Psslaion per plyifiad     - Pmapmltica  divided by nverst of prcticng
physicians qsltfled dea  a aedial school sousvrsr  level.



ANNEX '
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-72)
1971     1972     1973                                                 US $ Mln   e/
(Millions US $)                  Textile and Leather Products          38.2    13.7
Chemical Products                     34.7    12.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           776       989    1,240              Machinery                             30.5    11.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           889    1,118    1.511               Transport Equipment                   24.7     8.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -113       -129     -271              Metal Products                        24.2     8.7
Fruits and Vegetables                 353.    12.0
Interest Payments (net)          50       57        75              Animal Products                       15.7     5.6
Workers' Remittances             23        26       40              Other Agricultural Products           24.6     8.8
Other Factor Payments (net)      -         -        -               Other Goods                           52.3    18.8
Net Transfers                    25        30       36               All other commodities
Balance on Current Account      -15       -16     -120                     Total                         278.2   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       ..        ..       ..              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                  8        -        -                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                   6        7         9
Subtotal                       2       -7        -9               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               56
Capital Grants                   -                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 .
Other Capital (net)             298      272       282               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                -         -        -
Increase in Reserves (+)        285      249       153             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975  '
Gross Reserves (end year)       547       675      862
Net Reserves   (end year)    1,016    1,327    1,610                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             0.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        39        54
of which:  Petroleum 2/
Exports                         4        12
of which:  Petroleum 2/
RATE OF EXCHANGE (Average during period)
US$1.00 =         , _     --- 3.23       2.65     5.O5
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not included in foreign trade statistics (processed on exterritorial basis).
not available
not applicable
April 18, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19732/                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1963-67        1968-73       1972       197381
GNP at Market Prices               2,794     100.0                           5.1            7.6         9.8       5.0
Gross Domestic Investment            581      20.8                          5.7             9.6        15.4      11.5
Gross National Saving                462       16.5                          2.9           10.4        15.8       -8.7
Current Account Balance             -120      -4.3
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,240      44.4                           7.'           11.3        18.3       -0.3
Imports of Goods, NFS              1,511      54.1                          8.6             9.7        15.5        9.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added                    Labor Force 31                  V. A. Per Workeri/
_S$ MLi.                          Mln.        %                     US $          ,
Agriculture                         137      9.1                 0.102       18.9                 1,343         48.0
Industry                           305      20.4                 0.136       25.3                 2,243         81.0
Services                         1,055      70.5                 0.298      55.4                  3,540        127.0
Unallocated                         .        .                   0.002        0.4                   -            -
Total/Average             1,497    100.0                 0.538      100.0                  2.783        100.0
GOVERNMNT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
( LL Mln.)          % of GDP                     ( LL Mln.)           % of GDP
1973          1973        1970-73                 1973        1973          1970-73
Current Receipts                   1,366.2          19.2          20.0                 981.7        13.8           14.1
Current Expenditure                1,074.1          15.1          15.6                 859.4        12.1            12.0
Current Surplus                      292.1           4.1           4.4                 122.3          1.7           2.1
Capital Expenditures                 263.9           3.7           3.9                 161.0         2.3             1.8
External Assistance (net)             -               -            0.3                          -
August        August
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1970                       1972         197y         197-j        1974
(Million LL outstanding end period)
MOney and Quasi Money                      4,269         5,275        6,382        7,733        7,115        8,544
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -60          -396         -552         -595         -584         -606
Bank Credit to Private Sector              2,211         2,729        3,324        4,722        4,229        5,453
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           87.7           97.7       100.3        108.9        100.2        106.2
General Price Index (1963 = 100)           100.0         102.0        107.0        113.0        114.0        121.0 /
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          0             1.6          5.1          6.5          8.5         11.0 5/
Bank credit to Public Sector                None          None         None         None         None         None
Bank credit to Private Sector                0.5          23.4         21.8         42.0         53.1         28.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1! Due to the special circumstances in the country, it is not possible to obtain data after 1974.
_,/ Based on official estimates.
31 Labor force excluding foreign labor; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
i/ Since the labor force figures exclude more than 300,000 foreign workers (mostly unskilled) value added
per worker is roughly 40 percent lower than indicated.
5/ About 2.8 percent points increase are related to a statistical adjustment in agricultural production.
not available
not applicable



THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN LEBANON
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as of May 31, 1977)
US$ million
Loan                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower                      Purpose        Bank      Undisbursed
129       1955   Litani River Authority       Power           27.0        -0-
877       1973   Republic of Lebanon           Education       6.6        6.6
944       1973   Republic of Lebanon          Highways        33.0       27.6
Total                                        66.6      34.2
of which has been repaid                  19.6
Total now outstanding                        47.0
Amount sold                    2.9
of which has been repaid    2.9           -0-
Total now held by Bank                       47.0
Total undisbursed                                      34.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of May 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ million
Year     Obligor                        Type of Business       Loan    Equity   Total
1971     Filitex, S.A.L                 Textiles               0.93        -     0.93
1971     Lebanese Ceramic
Industries, Co., S.A.L.        Ceramic Tiles          1.20       -      1.20
1975     Lebanon Textiles
(Libtex, S.A.L.)               Textiles               3.90       -      3.90
1975     Bank of the Near East          Capital Market
Development           -        1.25   1.25
Total gross commitments:                              6.03       1.25   7.28
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                           2.63        -    2.63
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                            3.40      1.25   4.65
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 877 - Education; US$6.6 Million Loan of January 28, 1973; Date of
effectiveness:  May 24, 1974; CLosing Date:  March 31, 1978
This project was part of Lebanon's education development program,
specifically for constructing and equipping primary and lower secondary
schools and technical assistance for upper secondary schools. The project
faced numerous start up difficulties; however bidding documents were prepared
and bids were scheduled to be received on May 19, 1975 after April 1975 when
the civil war broke out. A memorandum is being circulated to the Executive
Directors proposing to use loan funds for immediate reconstruction needs.
Loan 944 - Highway; US$33.0 Million Loan of November 21,1973; Date of
effectiveness: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This project consists of construction of a four-lane expressway
between Tabarja (nortbL of Beirut) and Tripoli; construction of a highway
maintenance center; a feasibility study and detailed engineering of the Beirut
Ring Road and detailed' engineering of the Beirut - Syrian Border Highway;
and a study of highway organization and maintenance. Construction of the
first section of the h,ighway started in November 1972. Construction of the
Tabarja - Tripoli expressway was in progress (about 12% completed overall)
before the civil war but since then all contractors have stopped work. At
that time reasonable progress had been made on the feasibility study and
detailed engineering. A memorandum is being circulated to the Executive
Directors proposing to agree to the use of still available funds for com-
pleting two sections of the highway and immediate reconstruction needs.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT
DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            3 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:          Ministries of Water Resources,
Public Works, Posts and Tele-
communications, Industry,
Agriculture and the Interior;
Reconstruction and Development
Council, SGE (port operator)
and Beirut's water companies.
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank:                              February/March 1977
(d)  Dates of Bank missions:                   February/March and April 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:    May 1977
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            July/August 1977
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank would provide support for preparation of an urban reconstruc-
tion project on an emergency basis (para. 52).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Government to prepare proposals for reform of port operation and
administration in Beirut (para. 27).
(b)  Government to prepare a program for the reorganization of the
telecommunication sector in accordance with commercial practices
(para. 35).
(c)  Government to prepare proposals for reorganizing water utility
in Beirut and introducing progressive rates; as an interim measure,
Government to double present water charges (para. 42).
(d)  Government to establish a project unit within CEGPB for implementa-
tion of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation equipment of the
project (para. 45).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Government to launch an information program for the purpose of
reducing water consumption (para. 45).
(f) Government to establish coordinating committees to assist the
Reconstruction and Development Council in carrying out the study
program for urban reconstruction and regional development (para. 59).



ANNEX IV
Page 1
TECHNICAL NOTES ON SUB-PROJECTS
A. PORT OF BEIRUT
The Port of Beirut (Map)
Status before Civil War
1.        Under normal circumstances, Beirut has quays open to traffic total-
ing some 3,200 m, of which 2,400 are in deep water of 8 to 13 m and the re-
mainder in 6 to 8 m. In addition, there are two tanker terminals and shallow
draft quays for lighters, tugboats and small craft. Before the civil war, the
port had some 190,000 sq. m. covered storage area and 140,000 sq. m. open stor-
age, plus private storage facilities in the free zone next to the transit and
warehousing area proper. A development program (Dock 4) that aimed at extend-
ing quay length by 850 m and open storage by 100,000 sq. m. (for containers
and trailers) was 50 percent completed when the civil war started.
Traffic
2.        Traffic was 4.1 million tons cargo in 1974, the last year of normal
operations, and declined to 2.6 million tons in 1975; there was no traffic in
1976. One hundred thirty thousand t. were handled in January/February 1977.
Traffic before the war was mainly general cargo (3.0 million tons) and dry
bulk (0.7 million tons). 3.0 million tons was for local consumption or for
processing in the free zone; 1.0 million tons was transit traffic, mainly for
Jordan, Iraq and Saudi Arabia (85 percent of total transit) and also for
Syria and Kuwait (15 percent). Container and trailer traffic was developing
at a rapid pace, but 95 percent of containers and trailers were packed and
unpacked in Beirut. Few containers went straight through.
Port Administration
3.        Facilities and equipment are state-owned; ship traffic is control-
led by a harbor master, who is an agent of the Ministry of Public Works.
Shore-handling, cargo storage and delivery and the management of the free
zone are entrusted to a private concessionaire, the Societe de Cestion et
d'Exploitation du Port de Beyrouth (SGE), a public company owned by various
private interests in and out of Lebanon.
4.        A Board, the Commission d'Extension et de Promotion du Port de
Beyrouth (CEP), plans and controls the extension of facilities; it comprises
three Government representatives and three members from the private sector
under the chairmanship of the Minister of Water Resources. Stevedoring,
lighterage and pilotage are performed by different private companies.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Port Operations
5.        A study conducted by the consultants Peat, Marwick and Mitchell (UK)
in 1974 demonstrated that operations were adequate, but that there was room for
improvement. Congestion was severe at times. The port was handling 900 t
general cargo per meter of quay annually, which is reasonable; 75 percent of
cargo landed left the port within 10 days and 95 percent within 30 days, which
is satisfactory. Still, according to the consultants, areas for improvement
were (i) Governmentt's supervision of the concessionaire, (ii) pilotage service,
(iii) planning and supervision of cargo operations, (iv) maintenance of equip-
ment, and (v) storage. The consultants' conclusions appear to have been, in
general, considered adequate; no action was taken because of the outbreak of
the civil war.
Port Finance
6.        Most port revenues accrue to SGE, except for light and ships' dues,
levied by the harbor master on account of the State budget. Port charges
cover the cost of operations, maintenance and depreciation, and leave a size-
able surplus. The! concessionaire pays a rental charge to the Government; he
receives a fee (5 percent of gross revenue) and up to 50 percent of the net
surplus from port operations. The State budget takes a percentage of gross
revenues from cargo storage and at least 50 percent of the net surplus. In
addition, special dues were estabished in 1972 to finance port development;
they accrue to a special account and are earmarked for that purpose. Tariffs
are exceedingly complex, and do not lend themselves easily to cost accounting.
7.        It is tentatively estimated that in 1974 the State budget collected
some US$9.0 million equivalent from the port and SGE, US$1.3 million. However,
SGE itself operates at no risk, because all deficits from operations are
covered by the State budget, which was the case during the civil war.
8.        No debt has been contracted for port development, which is mostly
self-financed.
9.        Accounts of the concession are kept by the concessionaire.  Execu-
tion of the budget is closely supervised by the Ministry of Water Resources.
Accounts between the concessionaire and the State budget are cleared at the
end of each year. The surpluses and other monies due to the State accrue
directly to the Treasury, which does not keep separate accounts reflecting
the State's interests in port facilities and operations.
10.       Even though it is complex, the system of port administration appears
to be viable and adopted to local conditions. It can be financialy success-
ful.
The Effects of the Civil War
11.       Quays, breakwaters and depths alongside quays were unaffected by the
war. Superstructure is either destroyed or damaged. All transit sheds and



ANNEX IV
Page 3
virtually all warehouses were totally destroyed. Likewise, all cargo-handl-
ing equipment was destroyed or looted, as well as maintenance equipment and
machine tools in the badly damaged main workshop. Telephones, power lines,
fire hydrants and other utilities are also destroyed, missing or badly damaged.
Replacement cost and clearing costs are estimated at US$67 million, the bene-
fits from the sale of scrap iron (sizeable export at present) not deducted.
In addition, some US$900 million worth of cargo stored in the port and free
zone area simply vanished. Work in progress in Dock 4 was stopped.
12.       Traffic resumed in January 1977; ships in increasing numbers are
calling at Beirut. Because transit sheds are destroyed, all cargo is directly
delivered to trucks and moves outside the port area. Due to the lack of cargo-
handling equipment, only ship's gear is employed for truck loading/unloading.
This affects ports' revenue; without shorehandling and storage in sheds, traf-
fic being equal, the port is deprived of 50 percent of its revenue.
13.       As explained in para 9, the accounts between the State and the con-
cessionaire were cleared each year. The concessionaire is left with cash to
operate at the beginning of the new year, this cash being accounted mainly as
reserve for paying retirement allowances to staff. During the civil war, the
SGE drew from that reserve to pay salaries even though there was no revenue
to replenish it. This has resulted in a cash flow problem at the re-start of
operations in January 1977. The State provided an advance of LL 20 million.
During negotiations, SGE's cash flow position and projections were reviewed
and found satisfactory.
14.       Two side but positive effects of the war are (i) the possibility of
better physical planning of the port superstructure, mainly Dock 1 and part
of Dock 2, which are some 50 years old, and (ii) a more positive approach to
port management and changes in operations, which will make reforms more easily
acceptable.
Proposed Bank Involvement
15.       During an assessment in January 1977, the USAID identified the
emergency requirements for initial reactivation of the port of Beirut. These
are based on the reactivation of the most modern part of Dock 2 and of the
modern Dock 3. The future of Dock 1 is uncertain; it may be filled for urban
development, in which case commercial traffic in Dock 2 may leave room for
ancillary activities which used Dock 1 before the war. USAID also identified
needs for mobile equipment, based on accepted standards for general and bulk/
general cargo berths, but taking in consideration, the development of container
and trailer traffic. As a result, the proposed equipment comprises both re-
placement and modernization of the equipment existing at the Beirut port before
the war. Total cost of equipment is estimated at some US$16.0 million, exclud-
ing contingencies and the cost of new transit sheds and waterhouses. USAID
financed equipment and four prefabricated transit sheds for a total of US$5.5
million. The proposed Bank sub-project would include the equipment and facili-
ties not financed by USAID.



ANNEX IV
Page 4
16.       The mission identified the need for technical support in SGE and
in the Government agencies responsible for supervision of port activities.
It is estimated that the Government would need two advisers familiar with
port operations and organization and with a broad view of problems. The SGE
would require one tariff expert, one port operations specialist, one training
specialist and one equipment maintenance specialist, i.e. in all fields where
improvement is necessary (paras. 21 to 23). The experts would advise on
matters within their jurisdiction and their terms of reference should be
acceptable to the Bank.
17.       The following sub-project was identified:
----------------Cost in US$------------
Foreign            Local
Currency          Currency          Total
Break-bulk cargo handling
equipment                               8,400                100           8,500
Container and roll-on/roll-off
equipment                                1,700                50           1,750
General uses equipment                     1,000                50           1,050
Transit sheds and warehouses               4,500             4,500           9,000
Maintenance equipment                      2,250               600           2,850
Marine equipment                           1,750               250           1,800
Subtotal (1)                           19,600              5,550          25,150
Technical support and training               800               800           1,600
Subtotal (2)                           20,400              6,350          26,750
Physical contingencies 10%                 2,050               640           2,670
Subtotal (3)                           22,450              6,990          29,440
Price contingencies 10% of (3)             2,250               780           2,950
24,700             7,700          32,400
18.       The proposed sub-project assumes that traffic will regain its 1974
volume within about two years. This may prove optimistic, but any traffic
projection is at present conjectural; no risk of overinvestment appears in
transit sheds; the area to be rebuilt under the project is about 40 percent
of the area destroyed. The risk of over-equipment in container and roll-on/
roll-off equipment is also limited because (i) these traffic develop faster in
the Mediterranean than break-bulk traffic or total general cargo traffic and
(ii) whatever the number of containers a minimum allocation of equipment is
necessary and the proposed list of equipment is relatively modest. The same
is true of ancillary equipment such as fire engines, garbage trucks, most



ANNEX IV
Page 5
machine tools, and marine equipment, etc. Only the break-bulk cargo-handling
equipment allocation may be overestimated (Category 1); this can be corrected
by procuring in two stages, the second stage being optional and according to
the development of traffic. Technical support services are important to the
present as well as to the future. Government and port staff were somewhat
isolated from outside during the civil war and were submitted to considerable
professional and personal stress. They need to be helped and supported during
the reconstruction period and to carry out review of various aspects of port
administration (para 22).
19.       Physical planning of the port facilities is necessary and, mainly,
a traffic plan. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that planing
for town reconstruction would be conducted in close consultation with the port
authorities.
Procurement
20.       The SGE and CEP are competent to execute the project.  Specifica-
tions and draft tender documents for the transit sheds are ready or are being
prepared. The SGE is assisted by consultant engineers, Peat, Marwick and
Mitchell (UK) and Rafik El Khoury and Partners (Lebanon) who are familiar with
the Bank's procedures. International competitive bidding would be applicable
to all physical items. The experts would be recruited on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
Institutional Aspects
21.       Even though the system of port administration has proved in the past
to be reasonably efficient, improvement should be sought. One may have reserva-
tions towards the fact that equipment (such as mobile cranes, fork lift trucks,
etc.) is financed by the State rather than SGE. SGE is a public utility
company in a monopolistic position; such companies usually finance their own
equipment, in which case, however, they do not transfer part of their surplus
to the Government, as SGE does.
22.       Port operation and administration would be improved by (i) entrust-
ing (i) supervision to one Ministry only; (ii) reviewing supervision which is
too tight on some points (budget execution) and slack on others (operations);
(iii) submitting the different concessionaires (pilotage stevedoring, etc.)
to similar regimes; and (iv) extending the jurisdiction of the Commission
d'Extension et de Promotion du Port to involve it more deeply in port admin-
istration. The emergency loan would provide a good opportunity to start work-
ing on those limited objectives; this would open the way to further institu-
tional improvements such as the solution proposed hereinbelow.
23.       A solution may be to establish a small port authority that would
concentrate all duties presently distributed among Ministries and the CEP,
whereas operations could still be conducted by licensed private interests
that would rent the facilities and provide their own equipment, a major
change from present rules. In a period of likely austerity of Government



ANNEX IV
Page 6
finances, the systesm would have the obvious advantage of attracting sources
of non-government investments into public equipment, thereby relieving the
public resources of a sizeable burden. The expertise and motivation of the
present operators would be retained, but Government control and planning could
be improved. Care should be taken, however, that this does not result in re-
duced financial benefits to the Government.
24.       The Government would be requested to review the port administration
system: (i) in the light of the earlier consultants' conclusions, (ii) in
view of the constraints in public finance that result from the civil war,
(iii) with the short-term objective of improving its supervision system, and
(iv) with the long-term objective of establishing, either through consolida-
tion of the present regime or its change, the most efficient system of port
administration.
Financial Implications
25.       The loan would be made to the Government, as the owner of port
facilities and equipment. Interest would be paid from the concession's
account and principal of the loan from special dues earmarked for port devel-
opment, (para 6) except for the costs of technical support services, that
would be distributed between the concession and the Government budgets, two
experts being seconded to the supervisory Ministry and the others to SGE.
Provided traffic regains its 1974 volume as forecast (para. 18) the finan-
cial situation should be sound, and the revenue of the port sufficient to
provide the necessary local currency, which, under the system in force, will
not be drawn from the Government budget.
Economic Justification
26.       No detaiLled assessment of benefits derived from restoring port
operations to their pre-war level could be made. However assuming that traf-
fic would grow within two years from its current level of 60,000 tons per
month to only 75 percent of its pre-war level, the economic rate of return
of the sub-project would be about 24 percent. It would be 18 percent on the
assumption that traffic would only grow to half of its pre-war level.
Future Development
27.       It is likely that the port of Beirut will need to be expanded in
the years to come, this being particularly the case if Dock No. 1 is filled
in due to urban reconstruction needs (para 15). The Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development has expressed interest in financing completion of the
fourth basin. The Government is committed to relieving Beirut's congestion
and promoting regional development. Expanding the role of the ports of
Tripoli and Saida for local traffic is under consideration.



ANNEX IV
Page 7
B.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
The Telecommunications Sector
1.        Before the civil war the total number of telephone subscribers' lines
was estimated at about 220,000 and was in very rapid expansion; the target was
430,000 in 1980. Automatization was above 90 percent complete and progressing
rapidly, with STD (Subscriber Trunk Dialling) facilities available at most
centers. The number of telex subscribers was 2,000; also increasing rapidly.
More than two-thirds of the subscribers were in or near Beirut, serving
business in large measure.
2.        Lebanon is linked to the outside world by three submarine cables (to
France, Cyprus and Egypt); by an earth station; by microwave radio and cable to
Syria; and by microwave ratio to Jordan. It has an automatic international
switching center dealing with locally originated and transit traffic.
3.        Long distance facilities are provided through two coaxial cables, one
along the coast serving the areas in the south of the country and one across
Lebanon to the Syrian border serving points en route and the international
route; a third, following the coast north, was near completion. Backbone micro-
wave links also exist south to Saida and east to the Syrian border (serving
also the international route) with lines from Saida going east, and along the
Bekaa Valley.
4.        The telecommunications sector is managed by a Director General of
Telecommunications whose department is part of the Ministry of PTT. Total
staff was 4,000 in 1975, half of them temporary. Before the civil war, tele-
communications were very profitable and PTT was able to pay cash for the
telecommunication equipment purchases.
Evaluation of the Damage
5.        Damage to working facilities was extensive and also covered a wide
range in types of equipment. A complicating factor is that Lebanon was in a
phase of rapid expansion of the telecommunications network when the civil war
broke out and many items which had not yet been put in service were looted or
destroyed. Finally, the transfer of population to other areas has created an
urgent need for telecommunication facilities for essential welfare services
and business activities in areas where they had not been provided before.
6.        Difficulty was experienced in accurately evaluating the damage in
the time available since the end of the hostilities due to the abandonment of
the former building of the Ministry of PTT and the loss of files. Estimates of
the work and equipment involved and cost of repairs had therefore to be based
on information collected from a number of different sources--the estimates of
the directors of each telecommunications region for the local networks and
switching centers in their respective regions; estimates of the Service Tech-
nique Central for the major transmission links and long distance switching
centers; estimates of manufacturers for specific major items, such as the
telex exchange; the coaxial cable Beirut-Damascus; and the microwave systems.



ANNEX IV
Page 8
7.        From the information obtained, a reasonable estimate would be that
in Beirut about 40 percent of the subscribers connected to the network still
have service. Service could be restored up to 70 percent of the pre-civil
war level within six to twelve months after materials are received essentially
through repairs and replacement of local cables; PTT could undertake this work
with their own forces. In the provinces, except perhaps the southern part,
the proportion of disabled lines appears not to be higher, but due to the
geographical dispersion, the necessary restoration might take longer.
8.        The long distance network, although damaged in a number of sections,
has been patched up to provide service to most major centers using standby and
other available equipment, but permanent plant replacement is urgently necessary.
9.        The telex exchange was substantially destroyed.  To provide some
service, about 500 of the most important subscribers in Beirut were given
direct lines on exchanges located in Vienna, Paris and other foreign cities.
It will take six months after repair work begins to re-establish normal local
service.
Sub-project Justification
10.       The vital importance of telecommunications facilities to Beirut,
which can plausibly expect to restore its role as a major business and banking
center in the Middle East, places the rehabilitation of Lebanon's telecommunica-
tions facilities among the highest priorities in the country. The restoration
of services is also an essential element in the needed reconstruction effort
and for the resumption of normal life. Bank support at this time, on an
emergency basis, is therefore justified. It has been estimated on the basis
of a conservative assumption that revenues would be restored to a pre-civil
war level within a period of three years, that the economic rate of return on
the sub-project is about 44 percent. Outside the immediate telecommunications
project which the Bank would support now, there are other important works in
the sector, especially the early completion of the several installations, the
expansion of which was stopped by the outbreak of civil war.
Sub-project
11.       The sub--project essentially covers cost of repairs and equipment to
bring the network as a whole back into service at a pre-civil war performance
level; this cost has been estimated at LL 101 million (about US$34 million) of
which foreign exchange cost is estimated at LL 73 million; this includes a
minimum amount of spare parts and stocks to operate it properly. These works
would, it is anticipated, be executed over about two years. Part of these
outlays would be the cost of providing skeleton service in the areas into
which business ancl refugees have been moved from badly destroyed areas, esti-
mated tentatively as LL 2 million (US$0.7 million). The skeleton services to
be given will consist largely of telephone booths, or installations in offices
with public access, connected to the nearest exchange by aerial lines or radio
equipment.



ANNEX IV
Page 9
12.       The table on page 10 gives estimated cost of the sub-project broken
down between the costs of plant and installation, supervision and consultant
services, given in Part 1, which in turn divides the costs between the costs
of equipment paid with local currency, those procured through international
competitive bidding, and those acquired by negotiated purchase. Part 2 gives
the additional local costs for installation and civil works estimated approxi-
mately at LL 23 million.
13.       As stated earlier, the estimates for equipment purchases were com-
piled from a mixture of good and imperfect data. It seems likely that some
items which are needed for restoration still have to be identified because
the extent of the damage to the network can in some cases only be determined
during the actual repair work; a 20 percent contingency provision has there-
fore been made. PTT is in the process of seeking finance from the manufac-
turers for the proprietary items costing LL 28.28 million (nearly US$10
million) which are essential for the restoration of urgently needed facili-
ties; without some of these items, equipment procured under international
bidding competition could not provide the expected service. While some of the
equipment needed for restoration can be diverted from ongoing installations,
it is considered necessary for the Bank to allow for the possibility of
financing up to 20 percent of the proprietary items.
14.       The proposed Bank financing consists of LL 36.53 million (US$12.2
million) for items which can be procured through international competitive
bidding, the proposed 20 percent contingency provision of LL 7.30 million
(US$2.4 million), the provision for technical assistance of LL 1.25 million
(US$0.4 million), and a provisional sum of LL 5.65 million (US$1.9 million)
for the purchase of proprietary items. Financing of the proprietary items is
subject to the provision that prices are reasonable and correspond to the unit
price under the original bids for the items to be replaced. In the event that
other financing should become available for proprietary items, any loan alloca-
tion for this purpose should be correspondingly reduced. The total amount
proposed for Bank financing is therefore LL 50.73 million (US$16.9 million).
Financial Situation and its Implication
15.       Lebanese telecommunication operations normally have had good finan-
cial results despite relatively low tariffs for internal telephone services.
This has been achieved as a result of high telex revenues and excellent
returns on the international links. As a result, PTT has practically no
long-term debt in respect of its telecommunications operations. Plant in
service has been fully paid for. Payments outstanding consist of amounts due
for equipment in the 1972-77 development program underway when the civil war
broke out, which had not yet been installed or commissioned. This program was
originally estimated to cost LL 134 million. Under the program PTT acquired
equipment, on which it still owes US$18.4 million (LL 55 million). An amount
of US$13.2 million is overdue and the balance of US$5.2 million falls due in
the next two years. To repair damaged and replace looted equipment for the
development program will cost an additional LL 40 million (US$13.3 million).



ANNEX IV
Page 10
1. Summary of esti.mated Cost of Plant and Services Required for the Restoration
(in millions of Lebanese Pounds)
Local       Foreign       Foreign
Currency       ICB       Proprietary    Total
A. Local Telephone service
Exchanges                          0            0           14.90        14.90
Local network and subscriber
plant                           2.1         18.4           2.5         23.00
2.1         18.4          17.4         37.90
B. Long distance service
Exchanges                          0            0             0             0
Cables and aerial lines           0.95         5.35          0.7          7.0
Microwave equipment                0           0.4           4.2          4.6
0.95         5.75          4.9         11.6
C. International service
Switching                          0            0            1.0          1.0
Earth station                      0           0.5           1.1           1.6
Submarine cable station            0            0            0.53         0.53
0           0.5           2.63         3.13
D. Telex service
Exchanges                          0           0.1            1.8          1.9
Teleprinters                       0           0.1            0           0.10
0           0.2           1.8          2.00
E. Miscellaneous
Power plants and air
conditioning                    0.72         5.43          1.55         7.7
Vehicles, too:Ls                  0.75         5.25           0           6.00
Maintenance equipment              0            1.00           0           1.00
1.47        11.68          1.55        14.70
Total above                   4.52        36.53         28.28        69.33
F. Contingencies 20%                                 7.30                       7.30
G. Technical assistance                              1.25                       1.25
H. Possible purchase of proprietary items            5.65 /1
Items for Bank Financing                      50.73 (US$16.9)
2.  Local installations and civil works costs                                  23.11
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                    101.00
/1   These LL 5.65 million represent 20 percent of the cost of proprietary
items, as explained in paragraph 13.



ANNEX IV
Page 11
16.       The budgetary forecasts for telecommunications prepared prior to the
civil war included gross revenues for 1975 and 1976 of LL 127 and LL 156 million,
respectively. After provisions for operating expenses--depreciation 1/ is not
provided for in the accounts--PTT expected cash flows of LL 65 million in 1975
and LL 80 million in 1976. These amounts would have been utilized for invest-
ment in telecommunications. The expected results were not realized and during
the civil war no payments for equipment were made. The provisional budget for
1977 expects a cash flow of only LL 20 million. Even this figure assumes that
30 percent of the bills for services in 1975 and 1976, and all bills due in
1977, can be collected.
17.       Altogether the tentatively estimated expenditures for telecommuni-
cations over the next two to three years include:
(a) LL 101 million (US$33.7 million) for the project with a
foreign exchange component of LL 73.36 million (US$24.5
million) of which it is proposed the Bank should finance
LL 50.73 million (US$16.9 million) to repair installations
and provide technical assistance to re-attain pre-civil war
levels (paragraph 11);
(b) LL 55 million (US$18.4 million) to pay for arrears for equip-
ment not yet commissioned (paragraph 15); and
(c) LL 40 million (US$13.3 million) for damage to equipment under
installation for the development program. The LL 40 million
would constitute a repetition of expenditures occasioned by
damages to items which Lebanon has not yet had a chance to use.
18.       No reliable financial projections can be established for telecommuni-
cations at this time. However, it is expected that with the resumption of
services, the good operating results of the pre-civil war era will be attained.
It is proposed that for item (a) above the foreign exchange costs of the sub-
project would be financed by the Bank loan of LL 50.73 million (US$16.9 mil-
lion) supplemented by suppliers' credits of LL 22.63 million (US$7.6 million).
If the latter cannot be negotiated, equipment purchased initially for expansion
of the network will be used for rehabilitation works under the project. It is
expected that the local cash flow over the next two years will be adequate to
finance the local costs of the sub-project LL 27.63 million (US$9.2 million).
19.       In order to help PTT meet its present debts to suppliers (see (b)
above) Government has agreed to settle arrears or meet bills for existing
obligations for which other financing is not available. The Government's
contribution may conceivably have to be for the total LL 55 million referred
to in paragraph 15.
1/   Tentatively estimated at about LL 30 million each in both years.



ANNEX IV
Page 12
20.       Supplier financing is being sought for replacement of damaged equip-
ment under (c) costing LL 40 million (US$13.3 million) for the ongoing tele-
communications investment program. COFACE (France) indicated that it would
favorably consider the financing requests for equipment originating from
France. For equipment to be procured elsewhere the position has not been
established.
Organizational Aspects
21.       The financing of restoration and development of telecommunications
facilities is not the only problem on which action should be taken. Despite
past achievements, both in cdeveloping the network and more recently carrying
out initial works of restoration, PTT has reached a stage in its development
where there is a need for reorganization of the sector on the basis of intro-
ducing improved commercial and management practices which will facilitate
future operations. A first step would be the introduction of a commercial
accounting system.. This system will provide one of the essential tools for
efficient management-its introduction is of high priority. It is proposed
that consultants should advise and assist in improving the accounting system
during the course of the sub-project leaving proposals for sector reorganiza-
tion to be dealt with later but discussed with the Bank within two years of
loan approval.
22.       Technical assistance arrangements have been discussed in some detail
during negotiations and agreement has been reached to cover (i) engineering
assistance in assessing the damages and procuring goods for rehabilitation of
the network; (ii) designing and setting up a commercial accounting system; and
(iii) providing assistance in helping the Government to study and introduce
improved commercial and management practices in the telecommunications sector.
The proposed sub-project includes US$400,000 for expert and consultant help.
23.       The extent of other outside assistance has yet to be resolved.
Lebanon has appealed for assistance to the Arab Telecommunications Union.
The French PTT has; expressed a desire to help the Lebanese PTT reorganize its
network and its administration. Lastly, the ITU has indicated it will send
a mission. Should assistance in the areas proposed for Bank financing become
available from one of these other sources, the financing of technical assis-
tance by the Bank would be reduced.
Longer-Term Plans
24.       While Lebanon completes the restoration of equipment and services to
pre-civil war levels, the country will need to focus on its longer-term tele-
communications development needs. This period of reconstruction will also be
used to develop suitable plans for future expansion.



ANNEX IV
Page 13
C. WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
1. REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Background
(i) Water Supply
1.        Water supply to the City of Beirut and its suburbs is provided from
one principal source, the Jeita Spring, and two minor sources, the Moudik
Spring and the Nahr El Kalb River through the Debaye water treatment plant.
Total available supply from these sources at present is reported to equal the
treatment plant capacity of 200,000 m3/day. The volume actually produced may
be less since all of the water is pumped by electric driven pumps, there have
been frequent power outages, and there is no standby power generating equip-
ment at the water works. A small additional volume of water is provided from
local wells. The present population of Greater Beirut is difficult to esti-
mate. Although it may have been as high as 1.5 million before the recent
civil war, most estimates now place it at less than 1.0 million but growing
quickly as the population returns. The Director General of Service des
Eaux de Beirut (SEB, the Beirut municipality water authority) estimates
present demand at 300,000 m3/day. This would place per capita demand at a
high level of 200-300 litres per capita per day (lcd) depending on the actual
population. This would seem to substantiate reports that as much as 50 per-
cent of the production is lost through leakage, either directly as a result
of damage during the civil war or because of failure to repair or renew the
aging system both during the hostilities and in the preceding years when in-
vestments in the system were limited to extensions unplanned in relation to
the total distribution works. There is presently water rationing in the
City through the closing of the supply to various sectors on a rotating
basis, even though the period of high summer demands has not yet arrived.
The summer demand is expected to be unusually high this year because the
population which will be getting back to the size it was before the civil
war will not be able to leave for the cooler mountain areas as has been
the tradition in Beirut.
2.        It is reported that a chlorine residual is being maintained in the
water throughout the distribution system and this in principle should ensure
good bacteriological quality. Nevertheless, analyses of some samples taken
in West Beirut reportedly indicated the presence of fecal coliform. This
may be the result of local contamination of the distribution system which
occurs during the periods when the system is not under pressure and is made
possible by the poor condition of the distribution system combined with the
completely inadequate sewerage (para. 4). WHO/UNDP is acting as executing
agency for the purchase of field and laboratory water quality testing equip-
ment for the Sanitary Engineering Department of the Ministry of Health. This
is part of a program of emergency health measures costing an estimated $3.0
million to be financed out of the $50.0 million quick-disbursing aid package
granted by the USA in February.



ANNEX IV
Page 14
3.        Outside of some of the minor suburban areas which have their own
sources of supply, water supply in Greater Beirut is under the control of SEB
and the much smaller Service des Eaux d'Ain El Delbe (SEAED). There is an
existing law (1974) not yet given effect, which fuses these two authorities
to create a single water authority for Greater Beirut. This one together
with four other regional water authorities created by the same decree would
serve most of the population of Lebanon. All water supply authorities are
controlled by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electricity. SEB has a
staff of 500 includLing six engineers, a number adequate to carry on the
normal operations of the system. Most of their maintenance equipment is
reported to be destroyed or missing. In particular, they no longer have
any leak detection equipment. It is reported that all technical and finan-
cial records of SEAED, whose system straddled the line of hostilities, have
been destroyed.
(ii) Sewerage
4.        Beirut lacks a proper sewerage system.  An inadequate system of
storm drains collects sewage from many areas of the city, but this overflows
during rains. Sewage is discharged along the shoreline with no provision for
treatment or other acceptable disposal practices. Collectors, one serving a
sewer system constructed in the early 1970's to serve Beirut South and another
built to serve Beirut North and part of the municipality also lack treatment
and disposal facilities. There is no short-term solution to this problem
other than to ensure that the works which do exist, largely under the control
of Beirut municipality, are maintained so that they can be used to full capac-
ity. Clearing of catchbasins and ditches which are clogged with garbage would
be the first desirable step. Lack of maintenance equipment which disappeared
during the events :is reported to be a constraint; sufficient manpower is avail-
able.
(iii) Solid Walter Collection and Disposal
5.        An effort is presently being made to collect garbage by whatever
means are available (generally open trucks) but the equipment available is
completely inadequate. Under the W4HO/UNDP/USAID-funded program of public
health measures (para 2), provision is made for the supply of 40 rear-loading
garbage trucks. Disposal at the moment is a major problem. Garbage is pres-
ently being dumped wherever open space can be found and although an effort
is sometimes made to burn these piles, this is not effective. Earth covering
is said not to be done because of the shortage of machinery, manpower and lack
of organization. Chemicals and spray equipment for insect and rodent control
are being provided under the WHO public health measures (para 3). An incinera-
tion/composting solid waste disposal complex completed for the municipality of
Beirut at a cost of about US$10.0 million by Omnium Technique de l'Assainisse-
ment (OTA - France) was apparently still under guarantee at the outbreak of
hostilities. It is estimated that it will cost about US$3.0 million, of which
US$2.0 million would be in foreign exchange, to rehabilitate this complex.
Although one rocket fell on the complex causing some damage by fire, most of
the expense will be in replacing controls, motors, electric cables, and other



ANNEX IV
Page 15
equipment which have disappeared. Engineers from OTA are on the site at present
preparing a detailed report on the damage. The Company has a ten-year contract
with the municipality for the operation and maintenance of the complex and ad-
vised the mission that its personnel are prepared to return as soon as parts of
the complex can be put back in service.
Objectives and Description
6.        The proposed sub-project would assist the Government of Lebanon in re-
establishing the water supply and sanitation infrastructure of Greater Beirut to
the maximum extent possible on the short-term so that the basic services will be
available to permit resettling and normal life. It will follow up on the program
of emergency public health measures (funded out of $50.0 million quick disbursing
USA aid package, para 2) for which WHO/UNDP is the executing agency and whose
goal was to guard against outbreaks of disease while a minimum level of activity
was resumed. The sub-project woud include provision for replacement of damaged
or badly corroded portions of the water distribution system during the period
through 1979; the purchase of leak detection equipment and the training of
operators for this equipment; the replacement of water supply and sewer system
maintenance equipment; and the rehabilitation of the solid waste incineration/
composting complex. It will only be known after completion of the leak repair
program, an increase in water rates to better reflect the value of water and
implementation of a proposed public relations campaign to stop wastage and re-
duce consumption whether the present supply will make possible 24-hour service
to all customers. The sub-project would also provide for consulting engineering
services for the preparation of a program and tender documents for the most
urgently needed watermain replacements; for the review of the content, adequacy
and pricing of the proposed rehabilitation by OTA of the incineration/composting
complex and to prepare a coordinated plan for solid waste collection covering
all of Greater Beirut. Management consultant services would be included for the
review of present water utility organization, management and finances (including
tariffs) for Greater Beirut and Lebanon's four other regions and preparation of
recommendations for future water utility institutional and financial organiza-
tion. Finally, the sub-project includes feasibility studies for longer-term
solutions to the water supply and sewerge problems of Greater Beirut.
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
7.        Total cost of the sub-project including contingencies would amount to
$16.1 million of which $9.9 million in foreign exchange. Physical and price
contingencies were estimated at 10 percent each for a total of about 21 percent
of the base cost. Detailed cost estimates are provided in page 20. The pro-
posed Bank sub-loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the subproject,
excluding rehabilitation of the solid waste incineration/composting complex
for which the Government has undertaken to obtain suppliers credit or French
Government bilateral financing.
8.        SEB was formerly operated as a concession which was apparently a
financially viable institution. Following take over by the Government (in
1956), the Government is reported to have siphoned off all operating profits
and to have recouped the cost of expropriation in a 4-5 year period. Most



ANNEX IV
Page 16
customers are supplied through orifices which are supposed to provide 0.5
m3/day under system conditions to buildings furnished with roof tanks. An
annual water charge of LL 50 (US$16.70), unchanged since the time of the con-
cession, is levied for this service. This is only $0.09/m3 or $0.35/1OO0
gallons which at today's costs is clearly inadequate to cover the cost of
operation and satisfactory maintenance. No information was obtained by the
mission on water charges to the few metered large consumers of SEB or to the
consumers served by SEAED. Agreement was reached with the Government during
negotiations that the services of consultants to carry out organization, man-
agement and financing studies of a water utility to serve Greater Beirut would
be retained before December 31, 1977, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, that the results of the studies will be discussed with the Bank not
later than December 31, 1978 and that agreed reasonable recommendations of the
consultants will be implemented. It was agreed that the review of water rates
which will be part of the study would examine the desirability of installing
meters for large (if not all) consumers and the implementation of a progressive
tariff on metered sales. As an interim measure, it was agreed that SEB will
double its present: water rates not later than December 31, 1977, thus bringing
them more in line with the economic cost of water. On the assumption that the
project will restore the volume of water supplied to its prewar level within
a 3 year period, the incremental rate of return of the project can be esti-
mated at about 15 percent on the basis of the interim water rates mentioned
above.
Implementation
9.        Although SEB and Beirut municipality have staffs which may be in a
position to implement parts of the project, neither of them, at present, has
effective authority which covers all of the Greater Beirut area which must be
served if the project is to be successful. Moreover, it can be expected that
their present staffs will be sufficiently occupied with the day-to-day problems
of maintaining service without the additional duties involved in planning re-
organization of the institutions for which they work, supervising consultants
carrying out longer-term feasibility studies (paras 11-13) and dealing with
the procurement and financirng arrangements of the various lenders. Agreement
was reached with the Government during negotiations that a unit will be estab-
lished within Conseil Executif des Grands Projects de Beyrouth, headed by a
fully qualified individual with suitable experience which under supervision
of the Development and Reconstruction Board will:
(i) enter into agreements with SEB, SEAED, Beirut municipality
or other qualified and authorized Government Departments or
agencies for the carrying out of the works forming part of
this sub-project;
(ii) prepare a public relations programs in consultation with
the Bank to inform the population of the seriousness of
the problem, of the remedial measures being taken by the
Government and of the need for the individual consumer
to avoid waste and reduce consumption in order that the



ANNEX IV
Page 17
available supplies can serve more people with their basic
water needs. This program would be implemented not later
than April 1, 1978 using media appropriate to Beirut.
Establishment of this unit would be a condition of disbursement for any of
the goods or services under this sub-project of the proposed loan.
Procurement
10.       Replacement of watermains and procurement of equipment would follow
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guide-
lines. A 15 percent preference margin or the prevailing customs duty which-
ever is lower, would be extended to local bidders in the evaluation of bids
for equipment; it is expected that some bids for the supply of pipe may be
won by a local manufacturer. Since the incinerator/composting complex which
was damaged on its completion was designed and built by OTA and will be op-
erated by OTA, the contract for its rehabilitation would be negotiated with
OTA. Consultants financed by the Bank would be hired to review the content,
adequacy and pricing of the proposed rehabilitation and to make periodic in-
spections during the repairs and a final inspection following completion of
rehabilitation, with copies of their reports to be transmitted to the Bank.
2. STUDIES FOR THE PREPARATION OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
11.       A number of individual studies have been made of possible future
sources of water supply for Beirut from 1967 to 1973. A feasibility study
prepared about 1973 compared all possible sources of groundwater and surface
water within 50 km of Beirut and arrived at the conclusion that the most
advantageous source would be a supply from the Litani River complex which pre-
sently discharges its flow to the Awali River after utilizing the head for
power generation. Consultants would therefore be selected not later than
December 31, 1977, to update this feasibiity study of alternative sources of
supply and recommend short and medium term projects to meet the water supply
needs of Greater Beirut. If water is taken from the Litani complex to supply
Beirut with potable and industrial water, it could be at the expense of future
development of irrigation in southern Lebanon and therefore jeopardize a pos-
sible means to reduce regional disparities. The Awali River itself has an
annual flow of 300 million m3 which has not been harnessed up till now because
of failure to locate a suitable dam site. If such a site could be found, the
water needs for irrigation in the south could be assured. Consultants would
therefore also be hired to complete physical feasibility studies, including
borings and geophysical surveys, to determine whether a suitable dam site
exists on the Awali. The water distribution system has grown rapidly in re-
cent years with unplanned extensions and yet without renewing the older parts
of the system with consequent reported high water losses. A specialized firm
of consultants would be selected not later than December 31, 1977 to conduct
a field survey of the water distribution system in Greater Beirut to deter-
mine their condition, the amount of water lost and a program for reduction of



ANNEX IV
Page 18
water losses. A riational use of the existing distribution system and optimum
measures for its future development are impossible without an analysis of the
system to determinie its hydraulic behavior. Consultants would be selected
not later than December 31, 1977 to analyze the existing distribution sytem
using a computer model and to prepare a master plan for its reinforcement and
logical and economic extension.
12.       Four reputable consultants have already studied the basic problems
of sewerage in Beirut municipality and have arrived at conclusions with res-
pect to the type of system to be constructed (separate) and the disposal method
(pre-treatment and sea outfall).  SOGREAH 1/ have carried out current studies
which confirm the technical feasibility of this disposal method. Proposals
were obtained for the preparation of a feasibility study for sewerage of
Beirut municipality before the outbreak of hostilities but the study was not
started. A UNDP-f-inanced National Waste Management Study 2/ with WHO as
executing agency included as a priority phase the sewerage of the suburbs
only of Beirut. Activities on this project ceased in the fall of 1975 before
the consultants had begun their study. It is recommended that, if possible,
the UNDP Project be reactivated to provide the needed study of waste manage-
ment throughout the country. In view of the urgent need for sewerage in
Beirut municipality, consultants would be selected not later than December 31,
1977 to prepare a Bank-financed feasibility study for sewerage of the muni-
cipality, including coordination with the sewerage of the suburbs.
13.       Consultants for all of the above studies would be selected and re-
tained under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Copies of all re-
ports prepared by the consultants would be submitted to the Bank for review
and comment. The total estimated cost of studies to be carried out under the
studies sub-project: is US$3.4 million, of which US$2.3 million in foreign
exchange. A detailed cost estimate is provided in Attachment 1.
Disbursement
14.       The proposed sub-loans totalling US$6.9 million for the water supply
and sanitation and studies sub-projects would be fully disbursed by the end of
1979 and would finance (i) 50 percent of the civil works involved in the urgent
program of replacing failed sections of the water distribution system; (ii)
100 percent of the CIF price of imported equipment; and (iii) 67 percent of the
total cost of consultants.  This last percentage represents the estimated
foreign consultants with some degree of association with local firms. Before
the civil war, LebaLnese consultants were part of the service industry which
was the mainstay of the economy. In order to encourage their reestablishment
in Beirut and to ensure that the choice between a local firm and a foreign firm
will not be influenced by financial considerations, the same proportion of the
total costs of consultants will be financed and reimbursed when local consul-
tants are retianed as would be done if foreign consultants were selected for
the work.
1/   Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques, France.
2/   UNPD Project LEB/71/520.



ANNEX IV
Page 19
15.       The list of equipment and materials to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the subloan is not absolutely final. Firstly, certain items may
have to be changed during the disbursement period to conform more closely to
needs, which because of circumstances and the emergency character of the
project, could not be precisely determined by the mission. Secondly, it is
possible that bilateral aid could be used for certain goods for which a donor
country has competitive prices. As a result, and to allow the Borrower the
maximum of flexibility in the use of available financial assistance, the
composition of the lists would be reviewed from time to time by the Bank and
the Borrower and the amount of the loan reallocated or reduced accordingly.
Justification
16.       Benefits from the water supply and sanitation sub-project cannot be
quantified. The maintenance of a safe adequate supply of potable water and
the provision of a minimum level of sanitation are essential if the popula-
tion is to return to Beirut and to the task of rebuilding the economy without
serious risk to public health.
Future Bank Involvement
17.       The studies proposed for financing under this sub-loan will lead
to projects in water supply and sewerage which will involve investments of
several hundred million dollars for Greater Beirut alone. The concentration
of such significant investments in the short space of time in which they will
be required will of necessity involve the support of several sources of in-
vestment. The feasibility studies of water supply and distribution will
probably be completed before those for sewerage, and the water supply situa-
tion should be given priority in determining future Bank lending. The Gov-
ernment has indicated its interests in a water supply and sewerage sector
mission. More complete sector knowledge would be required before commencing
normal Bank lending in the sector.



ANNEX IV
Page 20
Estimated Cost
Thousands of US$
Water Supply and Sanitation Component                Local      Foreign      Total
(a) Works and Short-Term Studies
Purchase of leak detection equipment               30         100         130
Training of operators for leak detection
equipment                                        20          40          60
Replacement of water andi sewer system
maintenance equipment                           270         500         770
Urgent program of replacing failed
sections of water distribution system         2,000       2,000      4,000
Rehabilitation of incinerator/composting
complex                                       1,000       2,000      3,000
Consulting services for -
(i)  urgent water main replacement              150         300        450
(ii)  solid waste collection and disposal        100         200         300
(iii) water utility organization and man-
agement studies (five centers)             150        300         450
Contingencies                                     780       1,160       1,940
Subtotal                                        4,500       6,600      11,100
(b) Long-term Studies
Updating of water supply, feasibility
study, including physical feasibility
study of Awali dam site                         410         620       1,030
Water distribution system leak survey             400         800       1,200
Water distribution system; analysis and
master plan                                     200         400         600
Sewerage feasibility study (Beirut
municipality)                                   490       1,080       1,570
Contingencies                                     220         440         660
Subtotal                                        1,720       3,320       5,060
Total (Works and Studies)                       _6,200      9,900      16_,100



i                                                                            I
LEBANON                                                     TOOde-
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vocational and Technical Schools
Internamoal Highways                                                       alba
Other Htigheays
.2 Ports
Airports
C on our Lines in Meters
. Northern Lebhaon Poverty Are Boo-dories
I-- nternatioool Bounrldars                                Zgho a                                      Hermel°
0          ~~~~C61 de    >09r                           /A                     -        )       /    /J 
1~ ~ 0    20   a302A                                                                                    Xs 
KllOMETERS
38° v                   ft MILES
Zd/~~~~* -f X
;~~~~~~ X                                                     o~u                     At
Jbe I~ ~~Oo?u                                                           4REt. ~ i
's5-owoyu~o   rauioo-  A-VS         -
/                                         Si      P4WSLK.                             ,r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
B.ibk
-   -  -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ka
BEIRUT? -o                                                                                           tAIPAR,4



18RD 12871
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 197
WStr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S    S          X     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ';~~~~~~'m



