CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1476 LE
Loan Agreement
(Reconstruction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
and
TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 12, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gviarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Port
Rehabilitation Component
(Part A of the Project)
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project, with the assistance of the Commission d'Extension et de
Promotion du Port de Beyrouth (hereinafter called CEP) and of the
Socift6 de Gestion et d'Exploitation du Port de Beyrouth
(hereinafter called SGE) in accordance with the Convention of
April 16, 1960, as amended, between the Borrower and SGE, or with
the assistance of any other agency that the Borrower may select in
agreement with the Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and port practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall (i) employ experts in the fields of port operations
and organization and (ii) cause SGE to employ experts in the
fields of tariffs, port operations and related training and equip-
ment maintenance, in such number and with such qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in consultation and
coordination with CEP and SGE: (i) prepare a site plan for the


﻿-6-
Port of Beirut, including a traffic plan, and submit such plan to
the Bank for its review not later than December 31, 1977 or such
other date as the Bank shall agree; and (ii) prepare an adequate
plan for the reconstruction of the City of Beirut.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, on the basis, inter alia,
of the recommendations of the experts referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement, review the efficiency and profitability of the
Port of Beirut and prepare proposals with respect to the measures
required to strengthen the port operation and administration in
Beirut. Such proposals shall be submitted to the Bank for its
comments not later than June 30, 1979 or such other date as the
Bank may agree.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Telecommunications
Rehabilitation Component
(Part B of the Project)
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project through the Directorate General for Telegraph and Telephone
of its Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone (hereinafter
called DGTT), or such other entity as shall be entrusted with
responsibility for the telecommunications sector, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and telecommunications practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. In ordeT to assist the Borrower (i) in the
preparation of equipment lists and in the procurement required for
Part B.1 of the Project, and (ii) in carrying out Part B.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment.shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. Without limitation on the provisions of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures for the prompt settlement of all amounts owed with
respect to equipment already supplied to DGTT.


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B.2 of
the Project, referred to in said Part of the Project, prepare pro-
posals for the program referred to in said Part of the Project and
submit such proposals to the Bank for its comments not later than
June 30, 1979 or such other date as the Bank may agree, and
thereafter promptly implement said program.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Execution of the Water Supply and Sanitation
Rehabilitation Component
(Part C of the Project)
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and water
supply practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services an6 other resources reAuired for the
purpose.
Section 5.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in (i)
the preparation of a program for the carrying out of Part C.1 (a)
of the Project and of related bidding documentation, (ii) carrying
out Part C.1 (c) of the Project, (iii) procurement for Part C.2 of
the Project and the preparation of a coordinated plan for solid
waste collection in the Greater Beirut area, (iv) carrying out the
study included in Part C.4 (a) of the Project, and (v) carrying
out the studies included in Parts C.4 (b) through (e) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the experts referred to under subparagraphs (iv)
and (v) of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be employed not
later than December 31, 1977.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, a unit within its Conseil E%dcutif des
Grands Projets de Beyrouth, and under the supervision of its
Development and Reconstruction Council, for the purpose of direct-
ing and supervising the execution of Part C of the Project and of
preparing the program referred to in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
tion. Said unit shall function under the responsibility of an
experienced and qualified director.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare and implement, not later
than March 30, 1978 or such other date as the Bank may agree, and
in consultation with the Bank, an information program addressed to
the population of the Greater Beirut area for the conservation of
available water supplies in order to meet the needs of the largest
possible portion of the population.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the recommen-
dations resulting from the study to be carried out under Part C.4
(a) of the Project, including proposals for (i) the reorganization
of the water utility in the Greater Beirut area, and (ii) the
introduction of progressive rates for water consumption in the
Greater Beirut area which shall adequately reflect the financial
and economic cost of water supply and distribution, be transmitted
to the Bank for review and approval not later than December 31,
1978, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, and that
such recommendations are duly implemented.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall introdluce and implement, not later than December 31, 1977,
rates at a level of not less than two hundred Lebanese pounds
(LL200) per year for a water right of one cubic meter per day
and maintain such rates until the progressive rates referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section shall have been introduced.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Carrying out of Other Studies
(Part D of the Project)
Section 6.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the studies
included in Part D of the Project through its Development and
Reconstruction Council, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineer-
ing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) In order to coordinate the activities of the various
departments and agencies of the Borrower in the carrying out of
Parts D.1, D.2, D.3 and D.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish respectively four Coordination Committees whose composi-
tion, powers and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 6.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the studies included in Part D of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Other Covenants
Section 7.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 7.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives


﻿- 14-
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 7.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 7.04. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿- 15 -
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of te creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that,
if for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision
cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any
of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,


﻿- 16 -
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 7.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 7.06. The Borrower shall: (i) cause its assets at the
Port of Beirut and DGTT's assets to be adequately maintained and
shall promptly as needed cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made; and (ii) take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 7.07. The Borrower shall, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, transmit to the Bank for the Bank's review and comments
copies of any reports and studies prepared by the experts to be
employed pursuant to Sections 3.02, 4.02 and 5.02 of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date September 12, 1977, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanon
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Beirut
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
By /s/ Najati Kabbani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
PORT REHABILITATION
(Part A of the Project)
(1) Civil works                    4,500,000       50%
(2) Equipment                     15,000,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory
(3) Consultants'                     800,000       100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
REHABILITATION
(Part B of the Project)
(4) Equipment                     14,100,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(5) Consultants'                     400,000       100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
REHABILITATION
(Part C of the Project)
(6) Civil works                    2,000,000        50%
(7) Equipment for Parts              600,000        100% of foreign
C.1 and C.3 of the                             expenditures
Project                                        and 100% of
local expendi-
tures ex-
factory
(8) Experts' services              3,740,000        67%
OTHER STUDIES
(Part D of the Project)
(9) Urban reconstruction             300,000        67%
(10) Rural development               300,000        67%
(11) Industrial estates              150,000        67%
(12) Public transportation           150,000        67%
or other studies
(13) UNALLOCATED                   7,960,000
TOTAL         50,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for equipment under Categories (2) and (4)
of paragraph 1 hereof, until the Borrower and the Bank shall have
agreed on a list of such equipment;


﻿- 23 -
(b) expenditures under Categories (6), (7) and (8) of
paragraph 1 hereof, until the Borrower shall have established the
unit referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 5.03 of this Agree-
ment; and
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made in respect
of Category (4) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after March 8, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 24 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program of priority
economic rehabilitation and development. The Project consists of
the following:
Part A:   Port Rehabilitation Component
1.   The provision and installation of urgently needed
equipment and facilities to restore the traffic
handling capacity of the Port of Beirut.
2.   The provision of technical assistance for the
restrengthening of the port operation and adminis-
tration in Beirut, and other ports operated by the
Borrower to be selected by agreements between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The equipment and facilities to be provided hereunder and
expected to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
as set forth in Exhibit A to this Schedule, as such Exhibit may be
modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank. The specific locations of said equipment and facilities
shall be selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Part B:   Telecommunications Rehabilitation Component
1.   The provision and installation of urgently
needed equipment and facilities to restore the
Borrower's telecommunications service.


﻿- 26 -
2.   The preparation of a program for the reorganization
of the Borrower's telecommunications sector in
accordance with commercial practices.
The equipment and facilities to be provided hereunder and
expected to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
as set forth in Exhibit B to this Schedule, as such Exhibit may be
modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.
Part C:   Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Component
1.   The restoration of the water distribution system
for the Greater Beirut area by:
(a) the replacement of selected damaged portions
of the water distribution system,
(b) the provision of leak detection equipment,
and
(c) the training of leak detection personnel.
2.   The rehabilitation of the solid waste incineration/
composting complex in Beirut.
3.   The replacement of necessary equipment for the
maintenance of the water supply and sewer system in
the Greater Beirut area.
4.   The following studies for related purposes:


﻿- 27 -
(a) A comprehensive study of water utility organi-
zation, management and financing in Lebanon.
(b) Updating of a water supply feasibility study
for the Greater Beirut area including a study
of the physical feasibility of constructing a
dam on the Awali River.
(c) A study of the condition of the water distri-
bution system of the Greater Beirut area for
the purpose of establishing a program for
reducing water losses.
(d) A study of the water distribution system of
the Greater Beirut area for the purpose of
preparing a master plan for its reinforcement
and extension.
(e) A sewerage fesibility study for the city of
Beirut.
Part D:   Other Studies
Feasibility studies for the preparation of the following
projects:
1.   integrated reconstruction in Beirut for the most
deprived population groups;


﻿- 28 -
2.   integrated rural development with emphasis on
expanding agricultural credit in the most deprived
regions of Lebanon;
3.   establishment of industrial estates in regions with
high unemployment; and
4.   improvement of public transportation along the
coast or any other subject to be selected in
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 29 -
EXHIBIT A TO SCHEDULE 2
Equipment and Facilities to be provided under Part A (1) of
the Project and expected to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
1.   Break-bulk cargo handling equipment.
2.   Container and roll-on/roll-off equipment.
3.   General uses equipment.
4.   Transit sheds and warehouses.
5.   Maintenance equipment.
6.   Marine equipment.


﻿- 30 -
EXHIBIT B TO SCHEDULE 2
Equipment and Facilities to be provided under Part B (1) of
the Project.
A.   Local telephone service:
1.   Switching equipment
2.   Local network and subscriber plant
B.   Long distance service:
1.   Switching equipment
2.   Cables and aerial lines
3.   Microwave equipment
C.   International service:
1.   Switching equipment
2.   Earth station
3.   Submarine cable station
D.   Telex service:
1.   Exchanges
2.   Teleprinters
E.   Miscellaneous:
1.   Power plants and air conditioning
2.   Vehicles, tools
3.   Maintenance equipment
The equipment referred to under paragraphs A, B.2 and B.3,
C.2, D and E is expected to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1981
through   September 15, 1993                1,850,000
On March 15, 1994                                1,900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the. premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                               7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                               8.20%


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, contracts for the purchase of
goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A.1 of. the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment referred to under paragraphs A.1, B.3, C.2 and D.1
of Exhibit B to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which are pro-
prietary in character may be procured through international
shopping or through direct purchase, provided that in each such
case the Bank shall have concurred with the purchase price and
that the aggregate purchase price of goods so procured and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed the
equivalent of $1,900,000.


﻿- 34 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Lebanon may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Lebanon if the bidder shall have established to the


﻿- 35 -
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Lebanon equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Lebanon.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported gzods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group


﻿-36-
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of lists of Port equipment. Before bids are invited,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and
approval, the lists of all items of equipment for Port
rehabilitation to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
indicating specifications and estimated unit prices.


﻿- 37 -
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more and all contracts for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 38 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
4.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


